This is a reproduction of a library book that was digitized
by Google as part of an ongoing effort to preserve the
information in books and make it universally accessible.
https://books.google.com

science
of
journal
magazine
philosophical
Dublin
and
Edinburgh
London,
The






                                       THE                               ! *
              LONDON, EDINBURGH, and DUBLIN
 PHILOSOPHICAL                                      MAGAZINE
                                       AND
         JOURNAL                        OF        SCIENCE.
                                  CONDUCTED BY
     SIR ROBERT KANE, LL.D. F.R.S. M.R.I.A. F.C.S.
     SIR WILLIAM THOMSON, Knt. LL.D. F.R.S. &c.
                                        AND
    WILLIAM FRANCIS, Ph.D. F.L.S. F.R.A.S. F.C.S.
     " Nec araneanim sane textus idco melior quia ex se fila gignunt, nec noster
  vilior quia ex alienis libamus ut apes." Just. Lips. Polit. lib. i. cap. 1. Not
                    VOL. XXIV.— FIFTH SERIES.
                       JULY—DECEMBER 1887.
                                 LONDON:
   TAYLOB AND FEANCIS, BED LION COURT, FLEET STEEET.
SOLD BY LONGMANS, GhEE.V, AND CO. ; KENT AND CO. ; BIMPKIN, MARSnALL, AND CO. ;
      AMD WHITTAKER AND CO. J AND BY ADAM AND CHARLES BLACK, AND
           T. AND T. CLABK, EDINBURGH ; SMITH AND SON, GLASGOW ;—
             HODGES, POSTER, AND CO., DUBLIN;—PUTNAM, NEW YORK;—
              VEUVE J. BOYVEAU, PARIS ;—AND ASIIEB AND CO., BERLIN.

   " Meditationis est perscrutari occulta ; contemplationis est admiraii
perspicua         Admiratio generat qutestionem, qiuestio investigntionem
investigatio inventioneni."—Hugo de S. Victore.
                 "Cur spireut venti, cur terra dehiscat,
             Cur mare turgescat, pelago cur tantus aniaror,
             Cur caput obseura Phoebus ferrugine condat,
             Quid toties diros cogat flagrare cometas,
             Quid pariat nubes, veniant cur fulmina ccelo,
             Quo rnicet igne Iris, superos quis conciat orbes
            Tam vario motu."
                                                    B. Pinelli ad Maztmium.
                             ALEKH    I  FLAMMAM.

           CONTENTS OF VOL. XXIV.
                        (FIFTH SERIES).
               NUMBER CXLVL—JULY 1887.
                                                              PaSe
Mr. C. Chree on the Conduction of Heat in Liquids.—His
  torical Treatment                                              1
Dr. N. Collie on the Action of Heat on the Salts of Triethyl-
  benzvlphosphonium                                             27
Dr. J. Jf. Kruseman on the Potential of the Electric Field
  in the neighbourhood of a Spherical Bowl, charged or under
  influence. (Plate I.)                                         38
Mr. E. C. Rimington on a Modification of a Method of Max
  well's for Measuring the Coefficient of Self-induction ....   54
Mr. R. H. M. Bosanquet's Note on Magnetization.—On
  Sequences of Reversals                                        60
Mr. O. Heaviside on the Self-induction of Wires—Part VII.       63
Mr. J. Swinburne's Note on Prof. Carey Foster's Method of
   Measuring the Mutual Induction of two Coils                  85
Dr. G. J. Stoney on the Cause of Iridescence in Clouds ....     87
Mr. A. P. Chattock on a Magnetic Potentiometer                  94
Mr. C. V. Burton on the " Dimensions " of Temperature in
  Length, Mass, and Time ; and on an Absolute C.G.S. Unit
  of Temperature                                                96
Prof. A. F. Sundell's Researches on Spectrum Analysis           98
Dr. G. A. Liebig on the Electrostatic Force required to pro
  duce Sparks in Air and other Gases. (Plate II.)              106
Mr. W. Sutherland on the Law of Molecular Force                113
Notices respecting New Books :—
     Mr. F. T. Edgeworth's Metretike : or, the Method of
        Measuring Probability and Utility                      134
Proceedings of the Geological Society : —
     Mr. T. W. E. David on the Evidence of Glacial Action
        in the Carboniferous and Hawkesbury Series, New
        South Wales                                            135
     Mr. J. Martin on the Terraces of Rotomahana, New
        Zealand                                                135
     Capt. F. W. Hutton on the Eruption of Mount Tarawera      136
     Mr. C. Reid on the Origin of Dry Chalk Valleys and of
        Coombe Rock                                            137

iv            CONTENTS OF VOL. XXIV.       FIFTH SERIES.
                                                                Page
      Mr. W. F. Stanley on the Probable Amount of former
         Glaciation of Norway                                    139
      Prof. T. G. Bonney on the Structures and Eelations of
         some of the older Pocks of Brittany                     139
      Rev. E. Hill on the Eocks of Sark, Herm, and Jethou. .     141
      Mr. J. Radcliffe on Quartzite Boulders and Grooves in
         the Boger Mine at Dukinfield                            141
 The Adams Prize, Cambridge University                            142
 On Atmospheric Electricity, by E. Nahrwold                       143
 On an Experimental Determination of the Work of Magnetiza
   tion, by A. Wassmuth and G. A. Schilling                       144
                  NUMBEE CXLVIL—AUGUST.
 Lord Eayleigh on the Maintenance of Vibrations by Forces of
   Double Frequency, and on the Propagation of Waves
   through a Medium endowed with a Periodic Structure .... 145
 Mr. E. H. M. Bosanquet on the Production of Sudden
   Changes in the Torsion of a Wire by Change of Tempera
    ture. (Plates VI. & VII.)                                     160
 Mr. C. V. Burton on the Value of " y " for a Perfect Gas . . 166
 Mr. W. Sutherland on the Law of Molecular Force                  168
 Sir W. Thomson on the Stability of Fluid Motion.—Recti
    lineal Motion of Viscous Fluid between two Parallel Planes 188
 Drs. W. Eamsay and S. Young on Evaporation and Dissocia
    tion.—Part VI. On the Continuous Change from the
    Gaseous to the Liquid State at all Temperatures. (Plates
    m.-V.)                                                         196
 Mr. T. M. Eeade on the Secular Cooling of the Earth in re
    lation to Mountain-Building                                   212
 Mr. C. V. Boys on an Addition to Bunsen's Ice-Calorimeter. . 214
 Proceedings of the Geological Society :—
       Mr. F. Eutley on the Eocks of the Malvern Hills             217
       Dr. C. Callaway on the alleged Conversion of Crystalline
          Schists into Igueous Eocks in County Galway              218
       Dr. C. Callaway's Preliminary Inquiry into the Genesis
          of the Crystalline Schists of the Malvern Hills          219
       Mr. H. G. Lvons on the London Clay and Bagshot Beds
          of Aldershot                                             220
       Mr. W. H. Hudleston's Supplementary Note on the
          Walton Common Section                                    221
  A New Method of Eeduciug Observations relating to several
     Quantities, by F. Y. Edgeworth                                222
  A New Photographic Spectroscope, by C. C. Hutchins               223
  On the Electrification of Gases by Ignited Bodies, bv J. Elster
     and II. Geitel                  '                 .'           224

              CONTENTS OF VOL. XXIV.     FIFTH SERIES.                V
               NUMBER CXLVIH.—SEPTEMBER.
                                                                   Page
Prof. C. Niven on some Methods of Determining and Com
   paring Coefficients of Self-induction and Mutual Induction 225
Mr. E. C. Bimington's Note on Comparing Capacities                 238
Profs. W. E. Ayrton and J. Perry on Beams fixed at the Ends 245
Sir J. Cockle on Binomial Biordinals                               249
Mr. H. Tomlinson on the Effect of Change of Temperature in
   Twisting or Untwisting Wires which have suffered Perma
   nent Torsion                                                     253
 Mr. H. Tomlinson on the Bemarkable Effect on Baising Iron
    when under Temporary Stress or Permanent Strain to a
   Bright-red Heat                                                  256
 Mr. F. T. Edgeworth on the Choice of Means                         268
 Sir W. Thomson on the Stability of Motion.—Broad Biver
    flowing down an Inclined Plane Bed                              272
 Prof. A. Gray on an Elementary Proof of certain Theorems
    regarding the Steady Plow of Electricity in a Network of
    Conductors                                                      278
 Proceedings of the Geological Society :—
       Bev. A. W. Eowe on the Bocks of the Essex Drift              282
       Prof. J. Prestwich on the Date, Duration, and Conditions
          of the Glacial Period with reference to the Antiquity
          of Man                                                    284
       Messrs. A. J. Jukes-Brown and W. Hill on the Lower Part
          of the Upper Cretaceous Series in West Suffolk and
          Norfolk                                                   285
       Mr. B. Koto on some Occurrences of Piedmontite-schist
         in Japan                                                    286
       Mr. O. A. Derby on Nepheline Bocks in Brazil, with
          special Beference to the Association of Phonolite and
          Poyaite                                                    287
       Miss C. A. Baisin on the Metamorphic Bocks of South
          Devon                                                      288
       Prof. T. M'Kenny Hughes on the Ancient Beach and
          Boulders near Braunton and Croyde in North Devon . . 289
       Mr. W. S. Gresley on the Formation of Coal-seams, as
          suggested by evidence collected chiefly in the Leicester
          shire and South -Derbyshire Coalfield                      289
       Mr. J. V. Elsden on the Superficial Geology of the
           Southern Portion of the Wealden Area                      290
       Mr. J. Spencer on Boulders found in Seams of Coal .... 291
 On the Occurrence of Electromotive Forces in Metal Plates
     which are traversed by a Current of Heat while placed in
     the Magnetic Field, by A. von Ettingshausen and W. Nernst 291
  On the Experiments made at the instance of the Electro-
     Technical Union on Thunder-storms and Protection against
     Lightning, by L. Weber                                          294

 vi            CONTENTS OF VOL. XXIV. — FIFTH SERIES.
                                                               Page
 On the Melting-Point of Ice at Pressures under one Atmo
     sphere, by B. J. Goosens                                   295
 On the Thomson Effect, by A. Batelli                           295
 On Hygrometric Substances, by Henri Dufour                     296
                   NUMBEB CXLIX.—OCTOBEE.
 Mr. J. Buchanan on Hot Gases as Conductors of Electricity.
     (Plate VIII.)                                              297
Prof. J. Trowbridge and Mr. C. C. Hutchins on Oxygen in the
     Sun                                                        302
Prof. J. Trowbridge and Mr. C. C. Hutchins on the Existence
    of Carbon in the Sun                                        310
Mr. J. T. Bottoraley on Expansion and Contraction with Eise
    and Fall of Temperature in Wires under Elongating Stress.
    (Plate IX.)                                                314
Dr. T. S. Hunt on Integral Weights in Chemistry                318
Messrs. C. C. Hutchins and E. L. Hohlen on the Existence of
    certain Elements, together with the Discovery of Platinum,
    in the Sun                                   ".            325
Mr. F. T. Edgeworth on the Empirical Proof of the Law of
    Error                                                      330
Sir W. Thomson on the Propagation of Laminar Motion
    through a turbulently moving Inviscid Liquid               342
Prof. A. Griinwald on the remarkable Relationships between
    the Spectrum of Water-vapour and the Line-spectra of
    Hydrogen and Oxygen, and on the Chemical Structure of
    the two latter, and their Dissociation in the Sun's Atmo
    sphere                                                     354
Notices respecting New Books :—
       Prof. G. Lunge's Coal-Tar and Ammonia                   367
On a New Polar Action of Magnetism on Heat in a Plate
    traversed by a Galvanic Current, by A. von Ettingshausen   369
On the Action of Magnetism on Electrical Discharges in
   Dilute Gases, by Prof. Boltzmaun                            373
Some Experiments on the Transmission of Electrical Currents
   in Aii-, by J. Borgmann                                     374
Method of Observing the Action of Magnets on Liquids, by
   S. T. Morehead                                              376
                   NUMBER CL.—NOVEMBER.
Mr. T. C. Fitzpatrick on the Action of the Solvent in Electro
   lytic Conduction                                            377

               CONTENTS OF VOL. XXIV.      FIFTH SERIES.           Vll
                                                                 Page
Bev. O. Fisher's Beply to Objections raised by Mr. Charles
   Davison, M.A., to the Argument on the Insufficiency of the
   Theory of the Contraction of a Solid Earth to account for
   the Inequalities of the Surface                               391
Mr. C. Davison's Note on the Relation between the Size of a
   Planet and the Rate of Mountain-building on its Surface . .   394
Prof. S. P. Thompson on Twin Prisms for Polarimeters ....        397
Prof. E. Edlund on the Theory of Unipolar Induction               401
Mr. J. C. McConnel on the Cause of Iridescence in Clouds . .      422
Mr. H. F. Newall on Peculiarities observed in Iron and Steel
   at a Bright-Red Heat                                           435
Prof. J. Kleiber on " Random Scattering " of Points on a
   Surface                                                        439
Magnetic Circular Polarization in Cobalt and Nickel, by H.
   E. J. Gr. Du Bois                                              445
 On the Solidification of Liquids by Pressure, by E.-H. Amagat    446
 On a New Voltaic Battery, by F. Friedericns in Stiitzerbach      448
                  NUMBER CLI.—DECEMBER.
 Messrs. A. A. Michelson and E. W. Morley on the Relative
    Motion of the Earth and the Luminiferous -Sither              449
 Messrs. A. A. Michelson and E. W. Morley on a Method of
    making the Wave-length of Sodium Light the actual and
    practical Standard of Length                                  463
 Mr. H. H. Turner on Mr. Edgeworth's Method of Reducing
    Observations relating to several Quantities                   466
 Mr. S. H. Burbury on the Diffusion of Gases.—A simple case
    of Diffusion                                                  471
 Mr. O. Heaviside on Resistance and Conductance Operators,
    and their Derivatives, Inductance and Permittance, especi
    ally in connexion with Electric and Magnetic Energy ....      479
 Sir W. Thomson on the Division of Space with Minimum
    Partitional Area                                              503
 Sir W. Thomson on the Application of the Deci-ampere or
    the Centi-ampere Balance to the Determination of the
    Electromotive Forces of Voltaic Cells                         514
 Notices respecting New Books :—
       Mr. R. A. Roberts's Treatise on the Integral Calculus . .  517
 Influence of Magnetism on the Thermoelectric Behaviour of
    Bismuth, by Dr. G. P. Grimaldi                                517
 On the Action of Light on a Mixture of Hydrogen and
    Chlorine, by E. Pringsheim                                    519
  Index                                                            520

                                      PLATES.
       I. Illustrative of Dr. J. N. Kruseman's Paper on the Potential of the
               Electric Field in the neighbourhood ofa Spherical Bowl, charged
              or under influence.
     II. Illustrative of Dr. G. A. Liebig's Paper on the Electrostatic Forco
              required to produce Sparks in Air and other Gases.
    III., IV., V. Illustrative of Drs. W. Ramsay and S. Young's Paper
              on the Continuous Change from the Gaseous to the Liquid State
              at all Temperatures.
    VI. & VII. Dlustrative of Mr. R. H. M. Bosanguet's Paper on the Pro
              duction of Sudden Changes in the Torsion of a Wire by Change
              of Temperature.
   VIII. Dlustrative of Mr. J . Buchanan's Paper on Hot Gases as Conductors
              of Electricity.
      IX. Dlustrative of Mr. J. T. Bottomley's Paper on Expansion and
              Contraction with Rise and Fall of Temperature in Wires under
              Elongating Stress.
                                    ERRATUM.
Page 195.—In equation (49) of SirW. Thomson's paper,/or L/fy)-(-MF(y) read
      1       [^(»HS*)j^yf-yV(m^)(W+MF(y))
2V('»2+72)

                                 THE
           LONDON, EDINBURGH, and DUBLIN
  PHILOSOPHICAL                              MAGAZINE
                                 AND
        JOURNAL                  OF        SCIENCE.
                       [FIFTH SERIES.]
                          JULY 1887.
   I. Conduction of Heat in Liquids.—Historical Treatment.
    By C. Chree, M.A., Fellow of King's College, Cambridge*'.
 POSSIBLY the earliest experiment of any note on the
         conduction of heat in liquids is due to Despretzf. He
 supplied hot water at intervals of five minutes to a metal
 vessel in contact with the upper surface of water contained in
 a vertical cylinder, and observed the readings of a series of
 thermometers at different depths, some in the axis and others
 at or near the cylindrical surface. He specially observed the
 temperatures in the stationary condition when the heat sup
 plied just balanced that lost by the apparatus. He found that
 the temperature in the axis of the cylinder then followed
 precisely the same law as in a metal bar of small cross section
 heated at one end to a constant temperature ; i, e. if v denote
 the temperature at depth x, he found v ace-*1, where ^de
 pends on the material and dimensions of the cylinder. By
comparison of two cylinders of the same material he found
log;/ a (diameter)-*, a relation which also holds in the case of
metal cylinders. Near the surface of the water the tempera
ture did not vary much over a horizontal cross section, but at
depths of the same order as the diameter of the cylinder the
variation was very considerable. As a single experiment
occupied Despretz for sixty hours, and the method seems
   • Communicated by the Author.
   t Comptes Rendus, 1838, p. 033 ; and Attn, de Chim. et de Phys. 1839,
lxii. p. 216.
   Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 24. No. 146. July 1887.                 B

•1                        Mr. C. Chree on the
scarcely fitted to supply accurate numerical results, the in
terest attaching to his observations is chiefly historical.
     A slight modification of Despretz's method was applied by
 Herr Paalzow *, who sought to determine whether there was
 any connexion between the conductivities for heat and for
 electricity possessed by various liquids. He observed the
 stationary temperatures finally indicated by four thermometers
 at different depths below the surfaco of the liquids, where the
 heat was applied. The formulae he employed do not seem
 likely to give anything directly proportional to the conduc
 tivity, but his observations were sufficient to prove that no
 relation exists between the conductivities for heat and for
 electricity. For instance, water and sulphuric acid conducted
 heat very similarly, the former being, according to Paalzow,
 slightly the better conductor.
     In the article on Heat, in the Encyclopaedia Britannica, Sir
 W. Thomson quotes with approval the valuo obtained by
 Mr. J. T. Bottomley for the conductivity of water. The
 method employed was a slight modification of Despretz's, hot
 water being cautiously poured on the top of a board, of dia
 meter slightly less than that of a vertical wooden cylinder
 containing water on which the board floated. The method
 seems open to the same objections as Despretz's, and the com
 parison of other fluids with water would involve considerable
 difficulties. Bottomley found for the absolute conductivity of
 water in the C.G.S. system '002 ; but, as will be seen, this
 differs somewhat widely from subsequent and more reliable
  results.
     In the ' Philosophical Transactions ' for 1869, p. 637, is a
  paper on our subject by the late Prof. Guthrie. As the
  memoir is readily accessible, it is sufficient to say that his
  apparatus consisted of two equal hollow metal cones, which
   could be placed with their bases horizontal at small determi
   nate distances apart. The liquid to be examined was intro
  duced between the bases, where it was maintained by the
   capillary forces at its surface. A current of hot water was
   circulated through the upper cone, and the temperature of the
  air in the lower cone was determined by the height of a column
   of coloured fluid in a tube communicating with the interior
   of the cone.
      The deductions made by Prof. Guthrie from his experi
   ments are of an extremely fallacious nature, and as they are
   not infrequently quoted it seems desirable to examine them
  briefly.
      In his first series of experiments a hot current was suddenly
                     * Togg. Ann. exxxiv. 1808, p. 618.

                  Conduction of Heat in Liquids.
instituted in the upper cone, and the time-interval observed
when an alteration in the level of the coloured fluid became
apparent. This he denotes by t, and calls the " time-of-heat
penetration." He denotes b'y T the temperature of the lower
cone, by dT the excess of temperature of the current in the
upper cone, and by 8 the thickness of the liquid layer. He found
that t diminishes when dT is increased, and is not directly pro
portional to 8. He thence unwarrantably assumed the con
ductivity to increase with the temperature. Possibly a clear
idea of his views will best bo given by a statement he makes
on page 649 :—" If we had found that the time t . . . had been
the same for heat of call temperatures, we should of course
expect to find the time t proportional to the thickness 8." A
very slight acquaintance with the mathematical theory is suf
ficient to show that this is incorrect. In fact there should be
an immediate effect gradually increasing ; and the interval,
prior to its detection, depends on the delicacy of the apparatus
and the fineness of the observer's senses.
   In a second series of experiments he obtained what he terms
a " measure of the resistance" of the conductivity. First,
the bases of the cones were placed in contact, and the level of
the coloured fluid read off at equal intervals of time subsequent
to the commencement of a hot current in the upper cone.
The cones were then separated to a certain distance, a liquid
introduced, and the experiment repeated. The difference
between the readings in the two cases he considered a direct
measure of the quantity of heat stopped by the liquid, and this
he supposed to measure the thermal resistance, t. e. the reci
procal of the conductivity. On page 658 he says :—" . . . the
specific heat of the liquid in these contact experiments is of
no influence;" and on the following page he shows how to
deduce numerical results from the observations.
   The theory is altogether faulty, and the numerical results,
though doubtless accurate measures of something, are totally
misleading. I have been unable to find any means of obtain
ing probable results from the data supplied.
    There are two points, however, of great importance that
Prof. Guthrie's experiments seem to establish. Apart from
conduction proper or convection-currents, there are still two
ways in which heat might travel from the upper cone to the
lower. This might take place by radiation ; and that a certain
amount of heat is so transferred is unquestionable. That it
is comparatively small may be deduced from the fact that a
 decided interval (several seconds) elapsed after the heat was
 applied before any movement of the coloured fluid could be
 detected. Prof. Guthrie was evidently much influenced by
                               B 2

4                       Mr. C. Chree on the
ideas derived from Prof. Tyndall's experiments on radiant
heat, and seemed ready to attach at least sufficient importance
to this agency. He assured himself, however, that the inser
tion in the liquid of a thin film of Swedish filtering-paper,
which would have a great influence on radiant heat, produced
scarcely any effect in his experiment.
   The other possible disturbing cause is diffusion. Guthrie,
however, painted the base of his upper cone with a soluble
aniline dye, but observed no trace of colour in the liquid near
the lower cone, and thence concluded that no sensible part of
the phenomenon was due to this agency. These results are
of fundamental importance from their bearing on the methods
of subsequent observers.
   Herr Lundquist*, in a paper which I haveDbeen unable to
meet with, obtained, by the same method as Angstrom em
ployed for metals, absolute values for the conductivity, k, of
several liquids. The following results, in which the units are
centimetre, gramme, and minute, are given in a paper (pre
sently to be considered) by Herr Weber, who considers Lund-
quist's method very accurate but very tedious.
                          Temperature,            k,          k,
                           Centigrade.       Lundquist.    Weber.
   Water                      40-8             -0937       -0953
   ¦£3?¥M[}                   439              -°S9'       -09"1
  SsitvlIsS}                  45'2              0952       '°8'2
   For the last liquid Lundquist took as the specific heat the
value "77, while the correct value according to Weber is "697,
and the corrected value of k would be "08(52. Weber deter
mined k at only two temperatures, the highest being 23°, and
deduced the third column of the preceding Table by assuming
the conductivity to vary uniformly with the temperature.
Thus the agreement of his results and Lundquist's does not,
as will more fully appear subsequently, form so convincing a
proof of their accuracy as might be thought at first sight.
   Herr Winkelmann f has investigated the conductivity of a
considerable number of liquids. His apparatus consisted
essentially of two brass cylinders, one enclosing the other.
The inner was completely closed, save for a small hole at
the centre of its upper surface in which was fastened a glass
tube. This tube passed through a corresponding hole in the
             * TJpsala Universitets Arsskrift, 1869, p. 1.
             + Po<rg. Ann. cliii. p. 481.

                 Conduction of Heat in Liquids.                 5
upper surface of the outer cylinder, and could be fixed there
in such a position that the distance between the surfaces of
the two cylinders was everywhere the same. The tube was
then bent twice at right angles, and terminated in a beaker of
mercury. The height of the mercury in the tube varies with
the temperature of the air in the inner cylinder, which may
thus be determined. The liquid to be examined was enclosed
between the cylinders, and communicated with the exterior
only through a small funnel in the upper surface of the outer
cylinder, which was also originally filled with the liquid. This
little arrangement kept the space between the cylinders always
filled.
   The experiment consisted in plunging the apparatus into
ice-cold water and observing the height of the mercury at
subsequent intervals of time. Denoting the temperature of
the enclosed air before immersion by t0, and at a time t after
immersion by t, Winkelmann uses the formula vt= log (t0/t),
where v is the " velocity of cooling." He assumes that the
temperature of the enclosed liquid is the same at equal dis
tances from the surface of the outer cylinder ; that this outer
cylinder is at the same zero-temperature as the surrounding
ice-water; and that the inner cylinder, the liquid layer touch
ing it, and the enclosed air are always of one temperature.
He then takes for the temperature of the liquid the formula
                  u = T(fi-Vt(a.x + fist? + ya? );
where x is the distance from the outer cylinder, and a, 0, y are
constants determined from the conditions assumed at the
bounding surfaces of the liquid.
    That results based on so many assumptions should not be
altogether satisfactory is not surprising ; and Winkelmann
found, from observations with three different apparatus, that
the value of the conductivity supplied by his formulae rose as
the thickness of the liquid layer was increased.
    He had previously found that the outer cylinder became
 surrounded by a layer of water decidedly above the freezing-
 point, and employed a stirrer to promote circulation. He
 attributes the discrepancy in the results obtained from the
 three double cylinders to the fact that the stirrer, while main
 taining the curved surface of the outer cylinder at 0°, did not
 remove the heated water from its top or bottom. Thus, deno
 ting the true conductivity by K, while p stands for the ratio
 of the top and base to the entire surface of the outer cylinder
 of the apparatus which gave for the apparent conductivity the
value k, he uses the equation
                          K = k + npv,

6                         Mr. C. Chree on the
where n depends only on the nature of the liquid. From the
three double cylinders, for each of which p is known, he thus
gets three equations. Any two of these give a value for n,
and thus three values may be deduced for K. According to
Winkelman, these values agreed marvellously for nearly every
liquid examined. The following Table contains the apparent
conductivities k\, ks, k3 deduced from the three apparatus, in
which the thicknesses of the liquid layers were *2, "26, and "5
centiin. respectively. K denotes the true conductivity ac
cording to Winkelmann.
                                                     K          K.
   Water                    •0624       0697       0850       •0924
                            •0658      •0869        1261      •1605
                            •0294      •0359       •0650      •0904
   Carbon bisulphide ...    0357       •0446       •0826      •1186
                            0404       •0413       0435       •0449
   The units are the centimetre, gramme, and minute, and the
results apply to a temperature of from 10° to 18°.
   A theory in which the corrections required are so large can
hardly be considered satisfactory, and in Wiedemann's Annalen,
Bd. x., it meets with a very severe criticism from Herr Weber.
He attributes the discrepancy in the results given by the three
apparatus to convection-currents, which he says would, in the
case of the liquids of least internal friction, become very pro
minent unless the thickness of the liquid layer were small.
He considers the results given by the first apparatus to be
moderately good, but those given by the other two and Win-
kelmann's corrections to be useless. In the same number
(p. 668) there is an elaborate reply by Winkelmann, who
shows that Weber's remarks as to the effects of internal fluid
friction are scarcely borne out by the facts ; but he does not
succeed in proving his method to be satisfactory.
   The next observer, Herr Beelz*, has dealt with a largo
number of liquids, including various solutions of different
strengths. His apparatus consists of a long cylindrical glass
whose axis is vertical, enclosed in a coaxial glass of slightly
greater diameter fused to the inner glass near its mouth. The
   * AVicd. Ann. vii. p. 435 (1879) ; and Sitzunynhcrichte der muth.-phys.
Classc der k. b. Acad, der Wissenschaften, Heft i. p. 80 (1879).

                  Conduction of Heat in Liquids.               7
liquid is introduced between the two glasses, the interval be
tween which can communicate with the exterior by a small
lateral aperture, some distance below the junctions of the
glasses but above a fixed level, to which the enclosed liquid is
brought. In the mouth of the inner glass is a cork holding
fast the stem of a thermometer with a long bulb. The inner
glass is filled with mercury up to a fixed level slightly lower
than the level of the liquid to be examined, and the thermo
meter is fixed so that its entire bulb is surrounded by the
mercury. The distance between the curved surfaces of the
glasses is small compared to the radius of the inner glass,
which in turn is small compared to tho length of the glasses
or of the bulb of the thermometer. Thus fairly good results
may be expected from a mathematical treatment which regards
the liquid as existing between two infinite circular cylinders.
  Beetz's main observations consist of two series, one at a low,
the other at a higher temperature. In the former tho whole
apparatus was immersed in an ice-bath and removed when the
enclosed thermometer indicated 1°C. It was then wiped dry,
and, on the thermometer indicating 2°, plunged into a bath
of water at 20°. The bath was kept full to the top, so that
the apparatus was always immersed to the same depth. The
moment when the thermometer indicated 4° was taken as a
starting-point, and the times of rising successive intervals of
2° carefully noted. In the second series the apparatus was
immersed in a water-bath of over 45°, and at 44° plunged
into the water-bath of 20°, the times of cooling successive
intervals of 2° being reckoned from the moment when the
thermometer stood at 40°. For the velocity v of cooling or
heating, Beetz assumed tho formula
                        vt= log (t0/t) ;
where t0 is the difference between tho temperatures of the
enclosed thermometer and the bath at tho instant from which
the time is reckoned, whilst t is the difference at time t. He
supposed the conductivity of the liquid to be proportional to
a quantity C given by 10- 0 = v\oge. He found that the
above formula did not apply to the interval immediately sub
sequent to the immersion of the apparatus, and that towards
tho end of the experiment it again failed. For tho intervals
corresponding to the limiting values 6°-14° in the first series
of experiments, and 36°-28° in the second, it answered very
well. The discrepancy in the later stage of the experiment
seemed due to the gradual collection round the apparatus of a
layer of water differing in temperature from tho rest of the
bath.

  8                       Mr. C. Chree on the
     That Beetz's formula is incorrect has been clearly pointed
 out by Weber*. He looks on the liquid as bounded by two
 infinite cylinders and supposes the thermometer, the sur
 rounding mercury, the inner glass vessel, and the inner
  surface of the liquid to be at one temperature. He thence
 deduces for the temperature-difference the equation
 where t is the time, k the conductivity of the liquid, p the
 density and c the specific heat of mercury, while A is a con
 stant. The summation extends to all values of m given by
 the equation
               Jo(mri)Y0(»irg) — Jofar^YpCmr^) _ 2pc
           mVl J i(mr!) Y0(mr2) — J0{mr3) Y,(Wi) Pi^'
 where ru r2 are the radii of the surfaces bounding the liquid,
 whose density is px and specific heat cu and J, Y stand as
usual for the two solutions of the Bessel's equation of the
degree indicated by the suffix. Supposing r2 — 1\ small com
pared to ru it is easily proved that the least root of the above
equation is much smaller than the next. This explains why,
except at the commencement of the heating or cooling, the
retention of but a single term, viz. T=Ae~p«m gives a fairly
satisfactory result.
    Weber contents himself with proving the falsity of Beetz's
equation. It is not, however, difficult to obtain an approxi
mate value for the least value of m, and thus to deduce from
Beetz's observations fairly satisfactory values for the conduc
tivity. Thus, supposing m(r2 — rx) small, we may put
              Jo (mr3) = Jo (wrj) + m (r2 — rj)J0' (wr,) ,
where                         T, d T
                           wJ0 -d- J0,
and use a similar result for Y0(m?*3).
Also               Jo' = -J., andY0'=-Y,;
thus the equation reduces to
                          2 /
                        m'rArs—r-i) ,=V  —,
                             v           PlCl
whence                             _ n* (
                            T = T0e piCi ,
where n is constant for the apparatus. We should thus get
k cxpl Cj C ; i. e. we have only to multiply Beetz's numbers by
the specific heat of unit volume of the liquid considered to
                   • Wied. Ann. Bd. x. pp. 480-490.

                Conduction of Heat in Liquids.                  9
obtain values of a moderate degree of accuracy. In every
case, however, a certain amount of error will exist, for glass
is a very bad conductor ; and so the inner glass vessel, how
ever thin, will vary in temperature throughout its thickness,
and the thermometer thus will not give the temperature of the
inner layer of the liquid. The connexion between the outer
and inner glasses, and the divergence of the apparatus from
the form assumed in the mathematical investigation, have also
some effect.
   The question of convection-currents was carefully considered
by Beetz. He introduced some lycopodium-seed into the
liquid under investigation and watched it during the experi
ment through a microscope. He had no difficulty in detect
ing currents travelling down the one glass surface and up the
other. Experimenting with water at the lower temperature
he gradually thickened it with meal till no currents appeared,
but found scarcely any change in his value for the conduc
tivity. He even boiled the water and meal and let it cool, so
as to form a thick paste, without producing much effect. He
thus concluded that at low temperatures the convection-
currents were negligible. With our amended formula for
the conductivity his conclusion would scarcely be justified ;
bnt without exact knowledge of the change in the density and
specific heat it is impossible to deduce trustworthy results.
At higher temperatures Beetz found convection-currents to
play a decided part. As the thickness of his liquid layer was
the same as in Winkelmann's smallest apparatus, these facts
go far to justify Weber's objections to Winkelmann's method.
   Beetz examined a very large number of solutions of differ
ent strengths, in all cases stating the density ; thus, where the
specific heats are known, his results can be easily modified
according to the amended formula. His two series of obser
vations answered to mean temperatures of about 11° and 32°
respectively, and thus measures of the increase of the conduc
tivity with the temperature might be deduced. As there is a
comparatively small change in the specific heat of unit volume
of most liquids for a temperature-variation of 21°, the numbers
actually given by Beetz would suffice. The values so deduced
are, however, generally several times greater than those ob
tained by more trustworthy methods, which points distinctly
to an increase of convection-currents with the temperature.
Beetz introduced in the liquids colouring-matter variously
affecting radiant heat, but could detect no change in the con
ductivity. He is thus at one with Guthrie in this matter.
   The following Table gives a summary of Beetz's results for
such of the liquids and solutions as I can find the specific

  10                         Mr. C. Chree on the
 heats of. The first column of relative values is that deduced
 by Beetz's formula, the second that deduced by mine, taking
 the conductivity of water as 100.
                                           Conductivity Conductivity
                                 Density.   relative to   relative to
                                          water; Beetz's    water,
                                             formula.     amended.
                                   Ml          103-1         98- 1
                                   1-2         104-6         979
      Sulphuric-acid solution..    1083         991          96-0
             »>      it            l-4fl6       97 6         77-0
             »       it            1-806        90-8
                                   1-228        82-1        61-0
     Ether                          ¦T2i       112-3        42-3
                                    •804        87-0         41-9
                                   1-488       1130         39- 1
                                   1-272       123 9        39-0
                                    ¦915        64 2         28-2
                                    •691        991         26-0
    These results belong to a temperature of about 11° C.
 Similar results, answering to a temperature of 32° C, could
 in like manner be deduced from Beetz's experiments ; but, as
 already mentioned, they would be less trustworthy, owing to
 the existence of convection-currents.
    Some very careful experiments on conduction have been
carried out by Herr Weber*, who has also made some impor
 tant criticisms on previous methods. I shall consider his
 theory and experiments in connection with a very powerful
paper by Herr Lorbergf. This is based entirely on Weber's
 work, and gives a more exact mathematical treatment of the
subject. It also attempts to show that Weber's deductions
from his observations require amendment.
    Weber's apparatus consists of two plates of copper, about
8 centim. each in radius, whose faces are very accurately
plane. During the experiment both plates are exactly hori
zontal, with their centres in one vertical line, and the lower
supports the upper by means of three equal symmetrically
disposed small pieces of some badly-conducting substance.
These keep the plates at a distance of "231 centim. apart.
The upper plate is about 1"023 centim. in thickness, and the
lower about half as much. The liquid is introduced and
maintained between the plates, much as in Prof. Guthrie's
apparatus ; only for some of the more mobile liquids Weber
bad to attach a small glass rim to the lower plate, forming,
           * Wied. Ann. x. pp. 103, 304, 472; and xi. p. 347.
           t Ibid. xiv. pp. 201 & 427.

                  Conduction of Heat in Liquids.               11
with the upper plate, a closed vessel. Two wires of different
metals have their one junction fused to the upper surface of the
upper copper plate, and their other junction kept in ice. This
supplies a thermoelectric current, which traverses a reflecting
galvanometer, whose readings supply data for the calculation
of the temperature of the hot junction. When the apparatus
has been for some time at a fixed temperature, as indicated by
the constancy of the galvanometer-reading, the lower plate is
suddenly placed on a horizontal block of ice at 0°; a screen of
metal, maintained at 0°, is at once put over the apparatus ;
and the time noted. The weight of the apparatus presses out
the melted water, and so keeps the surface of the ice-plate
horizontal and its temperature at 0°. After about two and
a half minutes, readings of the galvanometer are begun, and
repeated at regular short intervals. The law of cooling of the
hot junction is thus obtained ; and the dimensions and other
properties of the apparatus being known, the conductivity of
the liquid may be calculated.
    Weber's mathematical treatment is not satisfactory, as he
started with an unwarrantable assumption, so as to lighten
the work, which presents serious difficulties. He first
attempts to show that, practically, the upper copper plate
is at one temperature throughout. Let it denote the tem
perature at time t, p the density, c the specific heat, k the
internal and h the external conductivity of the liquid layer,
 whose thickness is A; and let the same letters, with suffix 1,
refer to the upper copper plate. Then, in treating the plate,
Weber at once assumes that at its lower surface
                              ,   , rfui   ,u
                   Wi = u  and   k, — = k-r-
                                   1 dx     A
The former relation may be correct, and Lorberg considers that
 it follows from Poisson's theory of heat. Further, most, if
 not all, writers on the present subject have assumed that thero
 is no discontinuity in temperature in passing from any one
 medium to another in contact with it. This is a matter
 of great importance when the conduction takes place through
 thin layers, and any uncertainty on the point is much to be
 regretted. The results of direct experiments, however, have
 been contradictory ; and several high authorities hold a con
 trary opinion. The second equation is, as Lorberg has shown,
 undoubtedly erroneous ; thus, Weber's proof that the copper
 plate is isothermal is little better than a pure assumption.
 Granting, however, the first equation, Lorberg shows conclu
 sively that either copper plate is very nearly at one temperature
 throughout.

12                    Mr. C. Chree on tlie
   Weber next considers the liquid layer separately ; and his
work, though of a somewhat approximate nature, is fairly
satisfactory. His conclusions are practically in accord with
those deduced by Lorberg from a very able and complete
treatment. Lorberg considers the case of n horizontal disks
of the same radius, but of different materials, one above
another, all originally at one temperature. The lowest is
 suddenly put on an ice-plate, and the whole surrounded by
an atmosphere at 0°. The problem is very complicated,
especially as Lorberg is driven to attach different meanings
to the same letter in different parts of the work, and has to
use an elaborate system of suffixes. He applies the results
to three disks—copper, water, copper—in order, but compli
cates matters still further by inverting his previous notation.
   The conclusion come to both by Weber and Lorberg is
that, when cooling has lasted a comparatively short time, the
temperature of the hot junction is given with sufficient
accuracy by a single term, •
According to the former,
                             pc
while the latter gets
                        ,      k .    2 h
                              pc 1    It pc
where R is the radius of either plate. Neglecting smaller
terms, Lorberg's equation for q is, in the present notation,
      p,ci A .     . ,     A2 pc            ,1 \ , A2 h 2
       ^AjtangArrl
       pc 12                    p,d ^
                            qi^ —   k VR„+-r-AJ +-7ql krD;
                                                        R
while Weber's differs only in leaving out the term in h.
   In Lorberg's equation (25) , from which the above equation
is taken, there are several terms of a lower order. These are
deduced from his general equation (22), with which 1 entirely
agree. I further coincide with the approximate equation
given above, but after carefully working through all the
algebra, which Lorberg leaves the reader to supply, am
unable to agree entirely with these secondary terms. The
discrepancy, however, would affect the value of q only to a
very small extent. Lorberg finally gives
               ?2=(-231)~2| -2539--1472^ }
                 = 4-758 — term in h ;

                 Conduction of Heat in Liquids.                     13
while Weber has
                              22 = 4-778.
   Lorberg's work, with the arithmetical coefficients of which I
do not entirely agree, would indicate that the term in h, itself
supposed to be a very small quantity, is negligible without
sensible error. Thus, Lorberg's more exact treatment would
alter Weber's values for the conductivity by less than \ per
cent., which is far less than the probable experimental error.
In my opinion Lorberg, in not a few cases, uses more figures
after his decimal point than circumstances warrant. He is
also entirely dependent on Weber's measurements of the
apparatus, which are hardly likely to possess the extreme
accuracy he supposes. It would, for instance, be difficult to
 determine the distance between the copper plates exact to
 one-hundredth of a millimetre ; but an error of this amount
 would produce as great an effect in the value of the con
 ductivity as Lorberg's corrections do.
    I shall now examine somewhat closely Weber's and Lor
berg's numerical deductions from the former's experiments.
 When dealing with water at a low temperature, Weber took
 observations every ten seconds. He denotes by xn the
 (n + l)th galvanometer-reading; thus x„ and x„+e denote
 readings at an interval of one minute. A fall of 1° in the
 hot junction corresponds to a decrease of about 17 divisions
 in the galvanometer-reading. The Table on p. 14 is part
 of a table given by Weber*, along with an extension by
 Lorberg f.
    The first reading corresponds to a temperature 15°*59 in
the hot junction, and the last to 3a56.
    The application of this table follows very simply from the
 formula                               ,,
                             u = Ae-"
Thus, assuming u ot x, and counting t in minutes, we get
         M^2=log10 X~        and also     =log10 *"_*"+6
 where                M = log10 e = -43429
    If, then, the mathematical theory were in all respects satis
 factory, the mean values in the third and fourth columns
 should agree. The fourth column is due to Lorberg, and did
 not come under Weber's attention. The latter, however,
 points out that in the third column there is, on the whole, a
      • Wied. Ann. x. p. 308.             t Wied. Ann. xiv. p. 442.

14                        Mr. C. Chree on the
     Time.       logic ^ ¦                        log,   ¦T"-X"+6 •
                                    log,„-^.
                         »+l            *»+«
    h , „
    32 0               •02551           016611          017507
         10            •02838            •16567          •17068
        20             •029,r)8          •16579          •17784
        30              02563            •16354           17327
        40             •02909            •16248          •16745
        50             ¦02732            •16208           17072
      3 0              •02507            •10199           17532
         10            •02850            •16337           17933
        20             •02733            ¦10031           17173
        30             ¦02457             15916           17422
        40             •02929            ¦16024          ¦17210
        50             •02723            •15822           10399
      4 0              •02040            •15609          •15589
        10             02544              15028
        20             •02018            •15529 Mean... 017136
        30             •02505            •15205
        40             •02727            •15502
        50             •02510             15571
      6 0              •02664            •15018
        10             •02445
        20              02354   Mean.. .015980
        30             •02802
        40             •02796
        60             •02557
      6 0
              Mean... -02668
gradual decrease in log           .   This would indicate that a2,
and so also k, which varies as /u.2, diminishes as the tem
perature falls. Thus, strictly, k should have been treated
as depending on the temperature ; however, the variation is
not very rapid, and so Weber supposed it legitimate to take
the mean value supplied by the third column in calculating
the conductivity of water at the mean temperature of the
experiment. This gives /42 = -3680, and thence k='076S, cor
responding to a temperature of about 40-l, according to
Weber's formula?.
   Lorberg considers the fourth column to give a correct
value for fi2, and explains the difference between it and the
third column by a theory presently to bo considered. From
this one experiment he finds, by the method of least squares,
/u,2= "39556, with a mean error of '00067, and thence deduces
£=¦08317 — -0U46 h. If, as ho supposes, h be certainly less
than -006, the last term is of no practical importance.
   From the mean of a considerable number of experiments,
Weber finds X: = -0745 at 4°-l and =-0857 at 23°-67 ; thence

                Conduction of Heat in Liquids.                15
he assumes £=&o(l +«u), where a = "00786 and lc0 refers to
0°C. Lorberg, applying his own method of calculation to
one of Weber's observations at the higher temperature, found
/x3 = -42877; whence a= 005. Lorberg employs his own value
for a to show that the divergence between his and Weber's
values for M/t2 in the first experiment are much too great to
be due to the change in k. Employing Weber's value for «,
which seems fairer, I find that only about one half the
divergence could be accounted for. Lorberg further con
siders the fluctuations in Weber's table of values for M/x2 to
be considerably beyond the limits of errors of observation, and
finds that they cannot be explained by supposing k, klf &c.
to be quadratic functions of the temperature. The following
is the theory he propounds to account for all the phe
 nomena :—
    It is, he says, very unlikely that the metal cover of the
apparatus remains at 0°, but, on the contrary, it will after a
short time assume a temperature 6. This obviously will
modify the temperature of the apparatus, and will, he sup
poses, produce in the upper copper plate a constant excess t
 over the temperature given by tho mathematical theory.
Thus the temperature measured by the galvanometer is really
 t + m ; and, the deflection varying as the temperature, we
 should have
                         x = s + Ae-*1"',
 where s is a constant given by
                   — e_"')=xB+6— e~*2o:n=gn, say.
 The formula log — '* —        - obviously eliminates s and gives
 p? directly. Lorberg then forms a table of values of gn, and
 from them deduces s = 8-27. He also has a table of values of
 log Jin—;g"+12 , and of a corresponding quantity q„. This
 gives a value for (i* agreeing well with his other value, and
 gives s = 8-24. He points out, what is unassailable, that a
 given error in the scale-reading would produce a much smaller
 effect on Weber's quantities than on his own. Assuming *4
 of a scale-division as a superior limit to the error, he points
 out that this would not account for the fluctuations in Weber's
 table. It would, however, correspond to an error of "Oil in
  the value of log-^—Xn+<s , and of "7 in the value of gn.
                    Zn+t— #n+12
  Lorberg thus considers the fluctuations in his own tables

16                     Mr. C. Chree on the
remarkably small and fully accounted for by errors of
reading.
   It is quite true that the greatest deviation of gn from its
mean value is only '6 ; but as this mean value is only
2'7, a greater accuracy would seem desirable. Also, in
log———Xn+e one deviation is as much as *015, which
exceeds Lorberg's limit. This quantity is further so much
of the nature of an average, that large deviations could
hardly be expected. I have constructed a table of values of
log ——Xn+6 ; and though the mean value deduced for M/tt2
    Pn+b — #n+10
is nearly the same as Lorberg's, the numbers fluctuate from
•1875 to "1522, and so represent a deviation much above what
Lorberg allows to be possible. I have also calculated a after
Lorberg's method from the formula
putting m=2, 3, 5, 8, and 9, and obtained values of s steadily
increasing from 7"82 to 8-36. A study of Weber's table
also shows that in several cases, allowing Lorberg's full
error, we should get
which would absolutely make /*a a negative quantity. Weber
himself says he had observed the galvanometer-zero to alter
as much as 1*2 scalo-divisions per minute, and complains of
fluctuations occurring, especially in his experiments on water.
There is finally somewhat of a dilemma. Lorberg's method
would indicate that /a9 remained constant during the whole
range of each experiment, and so was independent of the
temperature ; but the values he obtains from the two experi
ments at different temperatures are different, and so would
require fj? to increase with the temperature.
   The value Lorberg finds for s would give t about        and
this, he thinks, might escape detection. I agree with him in
thinking it unlikely that the cover and its enclosed atmo
sphere remain at zero temperature throughout, but think it
equally unlikely that r should be a constant. Weber gives
only one specimen table at each temperature for his experi
ments on water ; thus Lorberg availed himself of all the data
at his disposal, as he limited his criticism to water. This
seems, however, rather a slender foundation to build an
elaborate theorj- on, especially as the value for k deduced
after Weber's method from the typical experiment at the

                   Conduction of Heat in Liquids.              17
lower temperature exceeded by fully 3 per cent, the mean
deduced from all the experiments of that series.
   I have applied Lorberg's method to the other specimen
tables given by Weber, which supply the observations taken
in a single experiment on each of the three fluids glycerine,
benzine, and mercury. Employing s and t as in Lorberg's
tables on water, my results are as follows:—
                                          k.         s.     T.
                       After Weber. After Lorberg.
                                        ¦043               C
                            0402                   140     0-8
                            0200        •0235      23-6    1-4
                           •9094        •925        9-5    0-5
   I have also tried by an approximate method what variation
of the conductivity with the temperature would account for
the variations in these tables, and got a = "0045 for glycerine
and = -038 for benzine. By actual experiment at a higher
temperature, Weber got for glycerine a = '00423; he does
not give its value for benzine or mercury. Thus, in the case
of glycerine, Weber's results seem at least consistent ; yet
Lorberg's values are quite distinct, and agree with the data
quite as well as in the case of water, though they require t to
have a value which could hardly escape detection. As to
benzine, the change in the conductivity could hardly be big
enough to explain the phenomena, though the decrease of
 M/i2 in the table seems very regular. As Lorberg's theory
would require t=10,4, it can scarcely be considered more
satisfactory.
    There is still one point in Weber's experiments that calls
 for remark. He observed that even when the liquid originally
 occupied the space between the copper plates so fully as to
 have its surface very decidedly convex outwards, before the
 experiment ended the surface would become concave. This
 he ascribed to the diminution in the volume of the liquid con
 sequent on the fall of temperature. It is to be noticed that
 the area of the plates and the distance between them must, for
 the same reason, be diminished ; so that what is observed is
 a difference-effect. The rate of expansion of most liquids is,
 however, much greater than that of copper or of the material
 separating the plates ; thus the contraction of the liquid would
 produce nearly its full effect. A consideration of the actual
 rate of expansion of the liquids examined would scarcely lead
    Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 24. No. 146. July 1887.         C

18                         Mr. C. Chree on the
one to expect an effect so marked as seems actually to have
occurred, and rather suggests that a good deal of evaporation
may have taken place. In the more volatile liquids this would
naturally occur, and as modifying not only the quantity of fluid
but also the surface conditions, would affect the accuracy of
the theory. The diminution of the area of the plates and of
the distance between them would be too small to introduce
any sensible error.
   The following Table gives Weber's results, along with
those given by Lorberg for water, and the values I have
obtained by Lorberg's method for glycerine and benzine. In
each case Weber's value is that placed first. The temperature
is about 4° C. when not otherwise stated. The units are
centimetre, gramme, and minute.
                                                          Conductivity,
                                                              from
                                        Density.            Weber's
                                                           own figures,
                                                          taking water
                                                             as 100.
  Water at 4°-l                                      0745
      Corrected by Lorberg                          •0831
  Water at 23° 6                                     0857
      Corrected by Lorberg                          ¦0911
  Sulphate-of-copper solution             1160      •0710      953
  Sulphate-of-zinc solution               1134       0711      95-4
                                          1-272     ¦0698      93-7
      "       "        "     at 4°-5 7.   1-362     •0691      92-7
          Last solution at 23°-44                   •0776
  Salt in water at 4°"4                  1-178       0692      92-9
            „ at 26°-28                             •0809
  Glycerine at 6°-26                     1-220      •0402      539
      Corrected by Lorberg's method                 ¦0430
  Glycerine at 26°"2                                •0433
  Alcohol                                0-795      0292       39-2
  Bisulphide of carbon                   1-271      •0250      33-6
  Ether                                  0-728      0243       32-6
  Olive-oil                              8-911     •0235       31-6
  Chloroform                             1-485      •0220      29-5
  Citron-oil                             0-818      •0210      28-2
  Benzine                                0-701      •0200      26-8
      Corrected by Lorberg's method                 •0235
  Mercury at 4°'5                                   •9094    1220-7
     Corrected by Lorberg's method                  •9250
  Mercury at 17°                                    •9720
   Herr Christiansen* has compared the conductivities of
several liquids by means of a comparatively simple piece
of apparatus. It consists of three horizontal copper plates
separated by glass props. The plates are each 13'13 centim.
                            * Wied Ann. xiv. p. 23.

                   Conduction of Heat in Liquids.            , 19
 in diameter and "9 centim. in thickness. In the cylindrical
 surface of each is a hole, which contains the bulb of a very
 flat thermometer graduated to fifths of a degree. The ther
 mometer-stems project horizontally from the plates, which we
 shall denote by L, II., and III. in descending order. By
 means of small holes in I. and II., which can be closed by
copper plugs, liquids may be introduced between I. and it.
and also between II. and III. The lower plate (III.) is sup
ported on a metal vessel kept at a constant low temperature ;
while on I. is placed a second metal vessel, through which a
stream of hot water is maintained. The experiment consists
in observing the readings T1? T3, T3 of the thermometers in
I., II., and III., when all have become stationary.
    Let    e3 denote the thickness of the upper and lower layers
of liquid, and Kj, K3 the conductivities of these liquids. Also
let e0 and Ko denote similar quantities for the middle plate II.j
and suppose S the cross section, A the cylindrical surface, and
h the external conductivity of this same plate. Then Chris
tiansen gives two approximate formula. The first is
                        Ka e3 Tj — Tj — 8
                        Kj e, Ts — T3 —
where
is a small quantity. The second is
              K1 = tl Tg-T, r 1 | Ahe, T,-T01
              K2 <?j Tj — T2 \       SKj Tj — Ts J
    In the first the thermometers are supposed to indicate the
arithmetical mean of the temperatures of the upper and lower
surfaces of their respective plates, which are not assumed
equal. Any variation with the temperature in the con
ductivity of either liquid is neglected. The second formula
supposes the temperatures of plates I. and III. to be the same
throughout. It, however, allows for a variation in the con
ductivity of either liquid, after the law
                         K = K0(l + ««),
where u is the temperature, and makes no assumption as to
the value of a. In it K-i refers to a temperature ^(T! + T2),
and K2 to i(Ta + T3). In both formulas it is assumed that
contiguous layers of any two materials have always the same
temperature, and the external conductivity of the liquids is
neglected. Christiansen also obtains a formula depending on
the cooling of the apparatus from which to obtain absolute
                                  C 2

20                    Mr. C. Chree on the
measures of the conductivity. It is, however, based on a
rather imperfect mathematical treatment ; and no clear idea
is given of how the experimental work may be carried out.
Some more delicate method of determining the temperatures
would be desirable. Since no results seem to have been
actually obtained by this formula, further explanation is
unnecessary.
    The formula actually employed is the second one of the two
given above. Thus Christiansen's results theoretically apply
to a perfectly determinate temperature ; and if the relation
between the conductivity and the temperature be linear, they
are not open to the charge of implicitly neglecting the varia
tion of the conductivity.
    The method has some obvious advantages. It seems very
simple in execution, and allows the conductivities of any two
liquids to be compared directly through a single experiment.
 Further, as the temperature is kept stationary, the readings
 can be taken with great accuracy, and no errors consequent on
 slight mistakes in measuring time-intervals can come in. For
 the same reason, much less objection could be taken to the
 assumption that no discontinuity of temperature exists in
 passing across the common surface of a liquid and metal
 There is at least one rather serious objection, however. In
 the actual experiments there existed a difference of from 11°
 to 19° between the temperatures of the two fluid layers—a
 difference varying with the nature of the fluid. Thus the
 conductivities do not refer to any standard temperature; and
 if the variation of the conductivity with the temperature be
 as large as found by Weber, the comparison instituted is
 somewhat misleading.
    With one exception, the upper fluid was air ; while different
 liquids were successively introduced between the two lower
 plates, and in neither layer was the mean temperature the
 same in any two experiments. In one experiment only was
 the air replaced by a liquid, leading to a direct comparison
between the conductivities in glycerine and olive-oil. The
value obtained for the ratio was 1"845 : 1; while that deduced
 from the separate experiments with air was 1*87 : 1. Con
sidering the complete difference in the temperatures to which
the conductivities refer, this coincidence is not so convincing
as Christiansen seems to think. No doubt the difficulty as to
the variation in temperature could be surmounted by experi
ments in which both layers are filled with the same fluid.
This would enable the dependence of the conductivity on the
temperature to be directly determined for each fluid separately.
This being found, a single comparison between any two fluids

                  Conduction of Heat in Liquids.              21
would give the ratio of their conductivities at any required
temperature. Christiansen seems to have seen the necessity
for determining the variation of conductivity in air, but made
no attempt to investigate it for any of the liquids. From
several experiments, in which both intervals were occupied by
air, he found, assuming
                         k = *0{1 + It),
where k0 refers to temperature 0° and k to temperature /, the
value of 7 to be "001504. He does not, however, apparently
consider the result sufficiently trustworthy to be applied to
the actual corrections.
   Another point requiring criticism is the extreme thinness
of the fluid layers. Thus, the lower was usually '1909 centim.
and the upper only "0214. In the experiments with air in
both intervals these were equal, being *0214 centim. in one set
and -0754 in another. The mere measurement to so great a
degree of accuracy would be by no means easy, and the
plates would require to be extremely smooth and accurately
plane. An error in the thickness would produce an exactly
proportionate error in the conductivity. Then the tem
peratures of the plates separated by the thin (or air) layer
differed by from 10° to nearly 25°. Thus the air would be very
far removed from a uniform medium ; and unless the law
connecting the conductivity and the temperature be strictly
linear, a very serious error might be introduced. There
would also be a great deal of radiation across the fluid layers,
and the effects of diffusion even would require to be examined.
There is also the question whether there is not a species of
internal radiation, distinct from ordinary conduction, in the
case of a gas or liquid, at least when the variation in tempe
rature is so extremely rapid as occurs here.
   To obtain absolute values of the conductivities from
Christiansen's results, the value of the conductivity in air is
required. The values obtained from the Kinetic Theory of
Gases by the formula? of Maxwell and Clausius almost agree,
and their mean is in C.G.S. units '0000490. The rate of
increase with the temperature is 7 = '00183 according to
Clausius, and twice as much according to Maxwell. Almost
identical values for the conductivity have been obtained
experimentally by Graetz and also by Kundt and Warburg,
and the former found 7=-0018. Somewhat different values
have, however, been found by other observers, e. g. Winkel-
mann, who got a decidedly different value for y. He and
Graetz indulge in mutual criticisms, and neither seems to put
the accuracy of his results above suspicion.

22                        Mr. C. Chree on the
   The following table, mainly taken from Christiansen's
paper, gives a summary of his results. K denotes the ratio
of the conductivity of the liquid mentioned, at the tem
perature £(T3 + TS), to that of air at £(T, +TS) ; while K' is
the value found for the liquid by Weber in his experiments
at low temperatures, i. e. about 4°. I have calculated the last
column, assuming for the conductivity of air at 0° the value
•000049* in O.G.S. units, and taking y=-0018; k refers to
the temperature i(T2 + Ts), and belongs to the liquid men
tioned opposite, the unit of time being one minute.
                            *(T,+T2).   *(Ta+T3).    K.   K/K'.    k.
                              2232         11-67                 •0645
                                                    2109 283 ¦0650
                              3351         15-78    20-87
                              2488         13-65     7-82 2(i8 0240
                              2394         11-57    12-64 314 0387
                              34-85        15-46    12-49        ¦0390
 Olive-oil                    2(3-90       13-71     6-73 288 •0207
                              39-55        1869      6-66        O210
                              2G-17        1314      6-52 310 •0201
   It seems worth noticing that in each case the results are
consistent with an increase in the conductivity as the tempe
rature rises.
   Herr Graetzt has carried out a considerable number of
experiments by a novel method. By means of a simple
arrangement the liquid is forced under a determinate constant
pressure through a straight horizontal pipe of very small
radius. The pipe is immersed in a bath, through which flows
water of a constant low temperature T0. The ends of the pipe
are let into corks fitting in apertures in the sides of the bath.
The corks also fit into the mouths of two larger tubes, one of
which brings the liquid to the pipe, while the other carries it
away. The entering liquid is warmed in a bath, and has its
temperature T, determined by means of a fixed thermometer
just before it reaches the mouth of the pipe. A similar ther
mometer gives the temperature U of the liquid just after
leaving the pipe. The quantity of liquid traversing the pipe
per minute is also observed.
    Graetz's two papers treat of two different series of experi
ments, which differed, however, only in the pipes employed
and the velocity with which the liquids traversed them. In
the earlier series the pipe was of copper, whose dimensions are
   * Wullner, Wied. Ann. iv. p. 321, gives '000045 as the correct theo
retical value ; values obtained by experiment seem mostly to exceed that
employed above.
   f Wied. Ann. xviii. p. 70, and xxv. p. 337.

                  Conduction of Heat in Liquids.              23
 variously stated. In one place its diameter is said to be
 "06 centim., while in another place the radius of the outer
 surface is said to be "06 centim. and to bear to the radius of
 the inner surface the ratio 3 : 2. The length is variously
 stated as 9"8 or 8"9 centim. A layer of warmer water tended
 to gather round the pipe, but was dispersed by means of a
 brush driven by electricity. Graetz assumed that, through
the action of the brush, the outer surface of the pipe was
always kept at the same temperature T0 as the surrounding
fluid.
   After some preliminary calculations of a rough nature, Graetz
proceeds to a complete mathematical treatment. He shows
that no sensible error is introduced by supposing the pipe of
one temperature throughout. He then assumes Poiseuille's
law, that in a pipe of radius R, from which 7rRsa is the
quantity of liquid issuing in unit time, the velocity at a
distance r from the axis is 2e^l —
    Employing this expression in his differential equation, he
found, by a satisfactory process, that the mean temperature of
the issuing liquid is given by the equation
                       U = T,2p(g ec 2V ,
where k, p, c have their usual meaning, I is the length of the
pipe, V the volume of liquid issuing per minute, and fi( the
root of a certain equation. The two first roots are p^— 2-7043
and ^3=6*50, and the terms answering to the other roots are
negligible. The coefficients pt and ps are also numerical
quantities, which can be calculated from the mathematical
theory. In his first paper, however, Graetz thought it easier
to deduce them from three observations on copper-sulphate
solution, in which the liquid traversed the pipe under three
different pressures. The values so deduced were pi = "91264
and p^ — '01249 ; and these were employed in calculating the
conductivities of all the other liquids. In most cases the
liquid traversed the pipe under at least two different pres
sures ; and the results obtained appear to agree remarkably
well. These results were uniformly considerably larger than
Weber's ; and believing them to be true, Graetz indulges in
a good deal of criticism, and accepts Lorberg's corrections as
tending in the right direction. In his second paper, how
ever, he is able to determine pl and p3 directly from his
mathematical theory ; and it turns out that jt?, = "81747 and
jo2="0325.
   This great divergence from the values employed of course

24                     Mr. C. Chree on the
completely invalidates the conclusions drawn from the first
paper. After this it might seem unnecessary further to con
sider that paper, but for Graetz's statement that it will still be
useful tor giving comparative values of the conductivity, and
that it may throw some light on the trustworthiness of the
method. On page 90 is given the formula from which the
calculations are said to be derived. In it fj.t is incorrectly
given as 2'4043. In five out of six of the following tables of
data I is given as 9*8 centim. These tables give a summary
of the data obtained in the experiments on six different liquids,
the number of experiments on each varying from five to thir
teen. I may safely assert that in most, if not all, of these
experiments it will be found that the values found by Graetz
for the conductivity are very tar from satisfying his equation,
whether / be 9'8 or 8"9. Singularly enough, however, taking
i=8-9, if the index of e be multiplied by •? the equation will
in most, cases be very nearly satisfied ; and in some cases a
still better result is obtained by multiplying the second term,
which is comparatively very small, by 10. I have calculated
out seventeen of the experiments, including the three from
which pi andp2 were calculated, and in only one did this emen
dation fail nearly to satisfy the equation. Putting Z=9-8
centim. will be found to place Graetz's results in a worse light
even than 8'9. As the index of e consists of a series of fac
tors, three or four of which are constants, it would seem
probable that Graetz calculated the value of the constant part
once for all. One of these factors is ir, and it seems quite
                                              22
possible that this may have been put equal -y, and the 7 may
have been overlooked. If this explanation be correct the
decimal place also must have been misplaced, which might
easily occur.
    The product kl occurs in the index of e ; thus, as the second
term is very small, an error of the above nature, or in the
 value of I, would not seriously have affected the relative values
 of the conductivity provided the coefficient px had been cor
 rect. A glance at the formula, however, will show that since
pi was incorrectly taken, no trustworthy results can be ob
 tained without repeating the entire calculation. The results
 deduced when the correct values of px and p2 are inserted do
 not seem very consistent, and it is scarcely worth while con
sidering them here.
    In his second paper Graetz employs the amended coefficients,
 and attributes the errors in the values obtained experimentally
 to his having made the liquids traverse the pipe at velocities
 exceeding the limits to which Poiseuille's law could be applied.
This explanation seems utterly inconsistent with observations

                  Conduction of Heat in Liquids.                 25
he makes on the results obtained by varying the velocity.
Commencing with a very rapid current, the value given for k
by his theory is distinctly said to increase as the velocity is
diminished, and this to a very decided amount*. For a con
siderable diminution in the velocity the value found for k is
then almost constant, and this value is assumed by Graetz to
be the correct one. For very slow currents, again, the value
appears to diminish. There were also certain practical diffi
culties in employing very slow currents. In these the differ
ence between U and T0 is so small that any slight fluctuation
in the former has a serious effect on the results ; further, the
difference between U and Tt is so great that it is hard to say
to what temperature the value found for k should be assigned.
But the main difficulty consists in determining U correctly.
With moderately fast currents the liquid threads of different
temperature in the pipe mix on issuing into the much wider
tube, and the reading of a thermometer in this tube is nearly
 independent of its position. With slow currents, however,
the threads do not mix properly; and even the introduction of
a Z-shaped tube at the end of the pipe failed to effect a
thorough mixture.
    Graetz points out that, in his first paper in the differential
equation employed, it is tacitly assumed that k is independent
of the temperature. He does not, however, succeed in re
moving this objection unless two very doubtful points be
 conceded. The first is that the temperature of the liquid in
the pipe depends only on the distance from the axis ; and the
 second that the higher value of the conductivity in the warmer
 layers is exactly counteracted by the increase in the velocity
 in capillary tubes with the temperature. The effect of gravity
 would render doubtful the first assumption, and the second
 seems decidedly improbable. The point is of considerable
 importance ; for, according to the theory, there must have
 been in some of the experiments a difference of 20° C. between
 the temperature of the entering liquid in the axis and at the
 surface of the pipe.
    In the second series of experiments the material of the pipe
 was platinum, which was selected as being less exposed to
 chemical action. Graetz also takes I as the length of the pipe
 exposed to the water in the bath ; the ends, which were fixed
 into the corks, being excluded. Thus, in the various experi
 ments I is stated variously as from 6*145 to 7'71 centim. In
 the first series of experiments one is left to conclude that I was
 the entire length of the pipe; and it seems highly questionable
 what a correct use of the theory requires. In fact the
 formula employed assumes I to be the length of the column of
            * See pageB 346 & 347 of Graetz's second paper.

26            On the Conduction of Heat in Liquids.
the liquid, which is surrounded by a metal cylinder at T0°; the
liquid before entering the cylinder having a uniform tempera
ture Ti, and leaving with a mean temperature U. Now if
Graetz be correct in supposing that the metal cylinder is so
good a conductor as to be of the temperature T0 throughout
its entire thickness when surrounded by water of temperature
T0, it seems obvious that the ends of the pipe cannot preserve
a totally different temperature. For instance, at the end
where the liquid enters, the part of the pipe imbedded in the
cork seems at least as likely to have the temperature T0 as the
temperature T\ ; and there can be little doubt that in reality
the temperature is intermediate between the two, and varies
from point to point of the pipe. Since I occurs as a factor of
k in the formula, any error in / produces an exactly propor
tional error in k in the opposite direction. If the above view
be correct, I is uniformly given too small, and so the value
found for k is always too large ; but the error in I would differ
from one experiment to the next. Thus the values obtained for
k would not lead to correct measures of relative conductivities
even.
   In the tables of results Graetz does not directly give the
volume issuing from the pipe per minute ; but he gives the
value of a quantity t, which is denned some pages previously
as the time in seconds required to pass 100 cubic centim. of
the fluid through the pipe. Thus we should have V, given
by the equation V=         ~ — • The substitution, however, of
this result and the other data in the equation does not seem
to satisfy it even approximately; so probably t has some mean
ing to which the paper affords no obvious clue.
   The absolute values given in the second paper are much
less than in the first, and, as a rule, slightly smaller even than
Weber's, though referring to a higher temperature. Graetz
seemed disposed to assign this difference to the radiation be
tween Weber's plates ; but numerical results deduced from an
application of Stefan's law of radiation to the data given by
Weber indicated that not more than 2 per cent, of the effect
could have been due to this cause. He thus attributes the
difference to Weber's neglecting the loss of heat by external
conduction from the liquid surface.
   On the whole I do not think Graetz's method very satisfac
tory, and am doubtful if much weight should be attached to
his results. There are a good many points in the theory
open to criticism; and the formula obtained is of such a nature
that a small error in the value given for the constant p} by the

Action of Heat on the Salts of Triethylbenzylphosphonium.          27
theory would produce a large error in the value deduced for
the conductivity.
   In the following Table, which embodies the results of
Graetz's second paper, k is the conductivity at the tempera
ture T, and a. denotes the rate of increase of k with the tem
perature. Graetz, however, does not claim great accuracy in
the values of a.
                          Liquid        T.        k.
                         density.
   Alcohol                0-8204       13-40    •0327
                          1-210        1335      0382         012
                          1-20         2714      0444
                          0-8692       12-63    •0195        •0067
                          0-864        22-73     0208
                          0-729        13-63    ¦0227
                          1153         13-87    •0674        •0057
                          11506        25-41    •0717
   KCIO, solution         1026         1414     ¦0698        ¦0078
                          1024         27-10     0769
   Carbon disulphide ... 1-2728        1331     •0160
                          0-7899       12-66    ¦0213        •011
                          0-784        22-73    •0237
II. On the Action of Heat on the Salts of Triethylbenzylphos
   phonium. By N. Collie, Ph.D., Lecturer on Chemistry at
   the Ladies College, Cheltenham*.
IN a former paper with another chemist f I drew attention
       to the manner in which phosphonium salts decompose
when subjected to the action of heat ; a decomposition which
differed from that which takes place when the corresponding
compound ammonium and sulphine salts are heated.
    It was found that all phosphonium oxysalts yield as the chief
product of decomposition, when subjected to the action of
heat, the oxide of the tertiary phosphine, and usually a ketone
 at the same time is formed ; in the case of a monobasic acid,
                  R3PC i           =R3PO + RJCO;
                        O-jCOR
or in the case of a dibasic acid,
                     All
             k*P\                 PR3 = 2R3PO + RaCO.
                       -CO-|0/
            • Communicated by the Author.
            t Letts and Collie, Phil. Mag. Aug. 1886, p. 183.

28            Dr. N. Collie on the Action of Heat on
   This difference from the corresponding nitrogen and sulphur
compounds was explained by the reducing action of the ter
tiary phosphine.
   In the former paper, already alluded to, the action of heat
only on the Tetrethylphosphonium salts was investigated ;
and as in some cases the results were of a somewhat compli
cated nature and not perfectly simple of explanation, mixed
phosphonium salts, containing both aromatic and fatty radicals,
were chosen for examination, as it was thought that they might
throw some additional light on the general way in which these
phosphorus compounds decompose.
             Chloride of Triethylbenzylphosphonium.
    This salt has been previously prepared by Hofmann* by
heating a mixture of benzylideno chloride with triethyl
phosphine and alcohol to 120°-130° C. A simpler method
 was, however, employed, viz. treating triethylphosphine with
 excess of chloride of benzyl, when complete combination
occurs, and the chloride of triethylbenzylphosphonium is pro
 duced,
            P(C2H6)3 + C7H7C1= P(CSH,),(C7H7)C1.
    It was found necessary, however, to use an excess of the
 chloride of benzyl in the reaction, on account of the heat which
 is evolved when the combination occurs, which causes the
 volatilization of some of the triethylphosphine. After all
 reaction ceases the mixture solidifies, on cooling, to a mass of
 crystals. On treatment with water the excess of benzyl chlo
 ride easily separates from the aqueous solution of the triethyl
 benzylphosphonium chloride, which can then be evaporated to
 a small bulk and allowed to crystallize. As Hofmann gives
 no description of the salt, and only prepared the platinochlo-
 ride in a state fit for analysis, some of the salt was carefully
 purified and its properties determined.
     (a) 2-041 grins, of salt, dried in vacuo over sulphuric acid,
           lost 0'137 grm. =6*71 per cent.
     (b) 0-446 grm. dry salt took 19-0 cubic centim. decinormal
           nitrate-of-silver solution =15"12 per cent. CI.
     (c) 0"283 grm. dry salt took 11*8 cubic centim. decinormal
           nitrate-of-silver solution = 14-80 per cent CI.
     (d) 0-363 grm. dry salt gave 0842 grm. COa and 0-2915
           grm. H30,
                       C = 63-26, H=8-92.
                     Calculated for             Found.
                (C7H7XCaH5)3r01,H20.              (a)
        HsO               6-85                   o-71
                          • Ann. Spl. I. p. 323.

              the Salts of Triethylbenzylplio»phonium.          29
                    Calculated for                Found.
                 (C.H7)(CaH,)3PCl.      >{b)                 (4j)-
      C                 63-80             ...               63-26
      H                   9 00            ...       ...      8-92
      CI                14-52           15-12    14-80
   The salt itself is a white crystalline substance scarcely deli
quescent, and dissolves in a very small quantity of water ; it
is soluble in alcohol, but is precipitated in the crystalline form
on addition of dry ether. The dry salt melts at 178°-180° 0.
without decomposition. The watery solution of the salt gives
with chloride of platinum a yellow voluminous precipitate,
already described by Hofmann.
    When the chloride of triethylbenzylphosphonium is sub
jected to the action of heat, it first fuses, and at a much higher
temperature decomposes, yielding gaseous and solid products;
and although the decomposition takes place at a very high
 temperature it is unattended by any charring. When four
 teen grams of pure salt were heated in a distilling-flask
 (with an especially wide delivery-tube), the decomposition did
 not take place until the temperature had risen above 360° C. ;
 during the experiment 1200 cubic centim. of gas were evolved,
 and the distillate was a solid mass of crystals. Some of the
 gas was subjected to analysis. (7-0 cubic centim. gas needed
 21*5 cubic centim. oxygen for combustion, yielding 14*0 cubic
 centim. of COa, the ratio being approximately 1:3:2 proved
 it to be ethylene.) The remainder ot the ethylene was ab
 sorbed by bromine, giving a liquid b.p. 130°-134° C, which
 gave on analysis numbers agreeing with those needed by di-
 bromide of ethylene, proving beyond doubt the composition of
 the gas. The solid distillate was redistilled ; it boiled without
  decomposition between 225°-230° C. A chlorine determina
 tion gave the following numbers :—0-622 grm. salt took 29-9
  cubic centim. decinormal nitrate-of-silver solution = 17*06
  per cent. CI. Theory for (C7H7)(C2H5)2PHC1, C= 16-39 per
  cent. The salt is soluble in water, giving an acid solution ;
  mixed with caustic soda an oil separates, which possesses all
  the properties of a tertiary phosphine ; it fumes strongly in
  the air ; possesses a most penetrating smell, which differs,
  however, from that of triethylphosphine ; it also gives a red
  crystalline compound with bisulphide of carbon. The phos
  phine can be separated from the solution of caustic soda by
  distillation in an atmosphere of hydrogen by means of a cur
  rent of steam. Several grams of the phosphine were thus
  obtained. When dried over caustic soda and fractionally dis

30            Dr. N. Collie on the Action of Heat on
tilled, the whole passed over between 250°-255° C, and an
analysis proved it to consist of diethylbenzylphosphine.
   0-232 grms. gave 0-627 COa and 0'192 H20.
                         Calculated for
                        (C^XC^P.              u ,
                                              Found-
             C               7333              73-70
             H                 9-44             9-19
   These results show that, when the chloride of triethyl-
benzylphosphonium is heated, it decomposes in the following
way :—
                       /lcaHjH
    (C7H7) (CjH^P^ :-         : = (C7H7) (C,H5)aPHCl-rCsH,.
                        \C1
And the decomposition is nearly quantitative ; for fourteen
grams of salt should give, according to the above equation,
about 1300 cubic centim. of ethylene gas, and the amount
found was 1200 cubic centim.
            Bromide of Triethylbenzylphosphonium.
   By saturating a solution of the hydrate with hydrobromic
acid a neutral solution was obtained. This was evaporated to
a small bulk and allowed to stand over sulphuric acid. Long
needle-shaped crystals were deposited, which were not per
ceptibly deliquescent.
   0*400 gnn. dry salt took 13*75 cubic centim. decinormal
nitrate-of-silver solution =27-50 per cent. Br.
                           Calculated for
                         (C^XC^PBr.           *ound-,
                                              v
             Br                 27-68          27*50
   Eight grams of the salt were heated ; no decomposition
began till the temperature had risen to above 360° C, when
gas was evolved, and the salt rapidly turned brown ; so much
charring eventually took place that the flask containing the
salt became almost full of charcoal. The small quantity of
distillate was strongly acid from free hydrobromic acid, and
contained toluene, and the hydrobromates of triethylphosphine
and diethylbenzylphosphine. The gas produced consisted
chiefly of ethylene ; but there was present also some inflam
mable hydrocarbon not absorbable by bromine. Evidently
only a small amount of the salt decomposes in a manner
similar to the chloride, the larger quantity being totally
decomposed.

             the Salts of Triethylbenzylphosphonium.         31
             Hydrate of Triethylbenzylphosphonium.
   The hydrate was prepared by two methods :— (1) by the
action of silver oxide on the chloride in aqueous solution ;
(2) by the action of barium hydrate on the sulphate.
    When freshly precipitated oxide of silver is added to a
solution of the chloride iu water a strongly alkaline solution
is obtained, but at the same time there is slight reduction of
the silver oxide. The second method for the preparation of
the hydrate is free from this objection ; and it was also tried
in order to see whether a decomposition occurred similar to
that noticed during the preparation of the hydrate of tetra-
benzylphosphonium, viz. decomposition of the hydrate at the
moment of production (if hot and concentrated solutions be
used) into phosphine oxide and a hydrocarbon,
    (C7H,)4PHS04 + Ba (OH), - (C7H7) 3PO + C7H8 + BaS04 ;
while with cold dilute solutions the tetrabenzylphosphonium
hydrate and barium sulphate are formed. This does not seem
 to be the case with the hydrate of triethylbenzylphosphonium;
 both boiling and concentrated solutions were used, but not a
 trace of toluene or of an oxide of a tertiary phosphine could
 be detected. The hydrate prepared by either of the above
 methods forms a strongly alkaline and caustic liquid, which
 will absorb carbon dioxide readily, and precipitate metals
 from their solutions in the same way as other phosphonium
 hydrates do. When perfectly dry by long standing over
 phosphoric anhydride in vacuo, it crystallizes in long and very
 deliquescent needles. When it was heated above 100° C. it
 melted, and was almost at once completely decomposed. No
 gas was evolved, and the distillate consisted of two layers ;
 the upper one insoluble in water, and, from its general pro
 perties and an analysis made, proved to be toluene ; the lower
  was nearly pure oxide of triethylphosphine. The decomposition
  which occurs, therefore, when the hydrate of triethylbenzyl
  phosphonium is heated is as follows :—
                            CH7=(CsH6)sPO + C7H8
               (CH,)^
                          0>!—H
  and, as there was no gas produced, evidently no oxide of a
  mixed phosphine could have been formed.
             Carbonate of Triethylbenzylphosphonium.
     Several attempts were made to prepare the normal carbo
  nate, but without success, and this salt does not seem capable

32           Dr. N. Collie on the Action of Heat on
of existence : at all events it cannot be obtained by any of thi
following processes :—
   (1) By the action of barium carbonate on the sulphate.
   (2) By the action of silver carbonate on the chloride.
   (3) By dividing a solution of the hydrate into two portions,
and saturating one half with carbon dioxide and then adding
the other half to it.
   In each of these cases a strongly alkaline solution was
obtained, which, on evaporation to dryness and subsequent
heating, invariably decomposed with the greatest ease into
the same substances ; viz. toluene, oxide of triethylphosphine,
and carbon dioxide. As these substances could not easily be
produced from the normal carbonate unless water had acted
on the salt,
( (C2H6),(C7H7) P)sCO, + H20 = 2 C7H8 + 2 P (C2H5)30 + CO,,
several careful experiments were performed in order to
ascertain whether this was the case or not. Some more car
bonate was prepared by the last-named method, and the solu
tion was concentrated in vacuo over sulphuric acid, and finally
allowed to remain with phosphoric anhydride in a vacuum
desiccator for two months. It had then dried up to a mass of
brittle white crystals, which remained constant in weight and
on analysis gave the following numbers :—
   0-223 grm. salt gave 0 532 grm. C02 and 0-190 H30.
                           Calculated for
         ((CaH3)3(C7H7)P)aCO, ggflgggg*                     Found.
   C               67-78                  65-32              65-07
   H                 9-20                  9-27               9-46
   These numbers show that the normal carbonate is not formed
by the foregoing process, and that the salt is probably a mix
ture of the acid carbonate with the hydrate ; and this is con
ceivable, as it has been already shown that no carbonate of
the tetrabenzylphosphonium exists*.
   The action of heat on the dry salt also points to the same
conclusion ; for complete decomposition occurred at a tempe
rature of 130° C, and toluene, oxide of triethylphosphine, and
carbon dioxide were the only substances produced.
       (CaH6)8(C7H7)PHC03 = (CaHs)3PO + C7H8 + COs,
       (CJHt\(C7H7)POH           = (CsH5)3PO + C7H8.
  • Letts and Collie, Trans. Roy. Soc. Edin. vol. xxx. part 1, p. 199.

              the Salts of Triethylbenzylphosphonium.          33
  No ketone could be detected, and the gas evolved was com
  pletely absorbed by caustic soda.
     Many other experiments were made with carbonate pre
  pared by the other methods mentioned, but always with the
  same results.
          Acid Carbonate of Triethylbenzylphosphonium.
     This salt can be easily prepared by saturating a solution of
  the hydrate with carbon-dioxide gas ; the solution is faintly
  alkaline to litmus-paper, and can be evaporated over the
  water-bath without decomposition ; but to be obtained in the
  crystalline state it must be allowed to remain in vacuo with
  sulphuric acid for a considerable time.
     0-312 grin, of salt gave 0-705 COs and 0"249 HjO.
                         Calculated for      ¦»-, ,
                     (C,HS),(C7HJ)PHCCV
               C            62-22            61-62
               H              8-51               8-86
    This salt decomposes completely, when heated to 130° C,
 into toluene, carbon dioxide, and oxide of triethylphosphine.
 10 grams of the dry salt gave 800 cubic centim. of carbon-
 dioxide gas, which was completely absorbed by caustic soda.
 The theoretical amount required by the following equation
 is 827 cubic centim.
                   / :C7H7
      (C2H4)3P^ |           , = (C2H5)3PO + C7H8 + COa;
                  XH-COjjH
thus showing that the decomposition was complete.
    The extreme ease with which this acid carbonate decom
poses, and the apparent non-existence of the normal salt,
show a very marked diminution in the alkalinity of the
hydrate of triethylbenzylphosphonium as compared with the
hydrate of tetrethylphosphoniiim. The normal carbonate of
the latter is a stable substance, but the introduction of the
benzyl group into the molecule in the place of an ethyl group
seems sufficient to make a considerable difference ; while, if
all the ethyl groups be replaced by benzyl groups, as in the
hydrate of tetrabenzylphosphonium, the alkalinity of the
hydrate becomes so feeble that it is no longer capable of
fixing carbon dioxide at all.
             Sulphate of Triethylbenzylphosphonium.
   This salt was prepared by the action of sulphate of silver
on the chloride ; the small quantity of dissolved sulphate of
   Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 24. No. 146. July 1887.         D

34            Dr. N. Collie on the Action of Heat on
silver was removed by sulphuretted hydrogen, and the acid
solution was then carefully neutralized with a small quantity
of the hydrate of triethylbenzylphosphonium. On concen
trating this solution by evaporation on a water-bath, a small
amount of decomposition was noticed, a trace of a free tertiary
phosphine being produced, and, what seemed remarkable, the
phosphine was not the triethylphosphine but the diethyl-
bcnzvlphospbine, which possesses a very different smell from
the triethylphosphine, and can therefore by this property be
easily distinguished from it. The solution, as it became con
centrated, was distinctly acid to litmus-paper, and was there
fore further concentrated by allowing it to stand over sulphuric
acid in vacuo. The syrup eventually solidified to a mass of
deliquescent crystals.
    These were transferred to a distilling-flask, and heated ;
they soon fused : decomposition began at about 230° C, and
then proceeded rapidly. A gas was evolved which was
recognized as sulphur dioxide by its smell, solubility in
water, and other properties. The distillate was partly cry
stalline, and also smelt strongly of sulphur dioxide ; it was
treated with water (in which the crystals were insoluble) and
warmed, in order to volatilize the sulphur dioxide and traces
of toluene, which were also noticed. The crystals were
eventually separated from the aqueous solution, which con
tained only the oxide of triethylphosphine, and, after washing
with water and recrystallizing several times from hot dilute
alcohol, they were obtained as white glistening leaflets:
m.p. 119° 0. (0-111 grm, substance gave 0 381 C02 and
0-0li(56H2O. C = 93-61 per cent., H = 6 (i(i per cent. Stilbene,
Ci4H|2, contains C = 93'33 per cent, and H = (v66 per cent.)
The melting-point of stilbene is given as 124° C, and this
hydrocarbon unites directly with bronn'ne, giving a dibrom-
stilbene, m.p. 237° C. 8oine of the crystals, m.p. 119° C,
were accordingly treated with bromine ; a slightly yellow
crystalline compound was obtained, which, when heated to
230° C, grew brown and half melted, but did not melt com
pletely till the temperature had risen to 240° G. There is
little doubt, therefore, that the hydrocarbon is stilbene.
   The mother liquors, from which the stilbene was obtained,
yielded on evaporation another crystalline substance, which
possessed a much lower melting-point, and seemed from its
appearance to be dibenzyl, as it melted at (i0°-63o C, con
tained neither phosphorus nor sulphur, and burnt with a very
smoky flame. It was unfortunately present only in very
small quantities; and, although several attempts were made to
isolate it in a state of purity, they were without success.

             the Salts of Triethylbenzylplioxphonium.          35
   The decomposition which the sulphate undergoes when
heated is therefore probably as follows :—
                  /C7H7
   -     -             >S03     = 2(C,H,)lPO + CMHM+SOSj
                x;c7h7
and differs from the action of heat on the sulphate of tetrethyl-
phosphonium, as no sulphide of a tertiary phosphine is formed.
   The toluene and stilbene noticed are no doubt produced by
the decomposition of the dibenzyl,
                  2CUHU = CUH13 + 2C7H8.
This decomposition has already been noticed, when the chloride
of tetrabenzylphosphonium is decomposed by heat*.
              Acetate of Triethylbenzylpliosphonium.
   In order to prepare this salt, barium acetate was added
carefully to a solution of the sulphate in water. During the
concentration of the aqueous solution over the water-bathj a
smell of diethylbenzylphosphine was noticed. The acetate
is extremely deliquescent and difficult to obtain in the crys
talline state. When it was heated, no change occurred till
the salt had reached a temperature of 200° C. ; decomposition
then began rapidly, and liquid distilled, but no gases were
evolved, and towards the end of the experiment the' Contents
of the flask had to be heated to a temperature above 300° C.
On washing out the distillate from the condenser with a little
water, it separated into two layers, the upper one being
insoluble in water. The aqueous solution was acid in its
reaction with litmus-paper, and gave with caustic soda a
trace of free triethvlphosphihe ; on distillation it seemed to
be almost completely composed of water and oxide of triethyl-
phosphine ; there was mixed with it, however, a small quantity
of some substance which possessed a very high boiling-point,
and yielded some triethylphosphine when again distilled.
   The liquid, insoluble in the water, contained no free
phosphine, and, ort being subjected to fractional distillation,
yielded first a little toluene, but consisted almost entirely of
                   * Letts and Collie, he. cit. p. 213.
                                  D2

36             Dr. N. Collie on the Action of Heat on
some substance boiling between 200°-220° C. It did not
seem to be attacked when boiled with strong caustic potash,
but traces of acetate of potash were detected in the aqueous
solution. It was not changed by hydrochloric acid, and had
a pleasant aromatic smell. It gave a crystalline compound
with bisulphite of sodium, and on oxidation with chromic acid
a mixture of acetic and benzoic acids was produced. The
substance is evidently therefore the methylbenzylketone,
b.p. 215° C; and probably mixed with it is a trace of the
acetate of benzyl, which gives the acetate of potash when
boiled with caustic potash. The chief decomposition which
the acetate undergoes when heated is therefore as follows :—
    (CaH5)P^1 C?H7           = (CaH{)3PO + CH3.CO.C7H7;
              x0—COCII,
¦while a small quantity of the salt splits up, yielding triethyl-
phosphine and the acetate of benzyl,
  (CSH,), (C7H7) P.O. COCH, = (CSH5)3P + C7H70 . C0CH3.
               Oxalate of TiTetlii/lbenzylphosphonium.
    When the chloride of trietbylbenzylphosphonium is treated
with oxalate of silver, this salt is produced, together with the
chloride of silver. The insoluble silver salts were separated
 by filtration, and the solution of the oxalate concentrated to
a small bulk over the water-bath. During the evaporation a
 slight smell of the diethylbenzylphosphine was noticed, and
the solution, which had been neutral, became slightly acid in
its reaction with litmus paper. The concentrated solution,
 when allowed to stand over sulphuric acid in vacuo, soon
 solidified to a mass of radiating crystals. Eight grams of
these were subjected to the action of heat. Decomposition
began at 170° C, and gas was rapidly evolved; the tem
perature was gradually raised to 250° C, when the whole of
 the salt had distilled, and no charring had occurred.
    The distillate was completely composed of toluene and oxide
 of triethylphosphine, and not a trace of any other substance
 could be detected. The gases evolved were first treated with
 caustic potash solution, when about one half dissolved ; the
 remainder was not attacked by bromine ; it burnt with a blue
 flame, and gave carbon dioxide alone when exploded with
 oxygen gas.
    It is difficult to explain the formation of only toluene and
 oxide of triethylphosphine, and the absence of triethylphos
phine, unless water has taken part in the reaction.

             the Salts of Triethylbenzylphosphonium.                37
              iC7H7       H
(CSH5);       L,           I
           xo-|-co
            qI^q          0       = 2(C2Hs)3PO + 2C,H8 + C02 + CO.
(CSH5)3P< J                j
            NC7H7         i
  Probably the water is present in the crystals as water of
  crystallization, and several attempts were made to estimate
  the amount, but owing to the deliquescent nature of the salt,
  and the difficulty of separating the mother liquor from the
  crystals, no constant numbers could be obtained.
     In conclusion, it is seen from the foregoing experiments,
  that when the salts of triethylbenzylphosphonium are subjected
  to the action of heat, they differ in their mode of decom
  position from the corresponding letrethylphosphonium com
  pounds. This is due probably to several causes, the chief
  being the less stable nature of the salts, owing probably to
  the introduction of the benzyl group ; they decompose there
  fore more easily, and in the majority of cases the hydrocarbon
  radical detached from the molecule is the benzyl. The non
  existence of the normal carbonate is worthy of note ; and the
  different decomposition suffered by the sulphate, when heated,
  as compared with the sulphate of tetrethylphosphonium (which
  latter salt yields almost equal amounts of the oxide and sulphide
  of triethylphosphine).
     Perhaps, however, the real point of interest is that when the
  triethylbenzylphosphonium is united with oxyacids, the radical
  separated Irom the phosphorus is invariably the benzyl*
        (C3H0sP^i-"--v"-" = (C2H5)3PO + CrH8 + COs;
                     0-i-C02iH
  while with the chloride and bromide the radical detached is
  the ethyl in the form of ethylene gas,
                        /;C2H4;II
   (CjHsMCVBOP^ '               I   = (C2H6)2(C7H7)PHC1 + C2H4.
                       XC1
    * It was remarkable though, that, during the evaporation of several of
  the oxysalts, they should have given traces of a free phosphine, which
  was apparently the diethylbenzylphosphine.

                               [  38   ]
III. On the Potential of the Electric Field in the neighbour
   hood of a Spherical Bowl, charged or under influence. By
    Dr. J. NlEUWENHUYZEN KliUSEMAN*.
                             [Plate L]
THE contents of this paper were suggested by Sir W.
        Thomson's memoir, " Determination of the Distribution
of Electricity on a circular segment of plane or spherical
conducting surface, under any given influence."
    It has been my aim to lind the potential at every point of
space in those cases in which Sir W. Thomson has given the
 distribution of electricity. I found it possible to expand the
 desired function as a series of spherical harmonics, and after
wards to bring the expansion into a finite form. The result,
however, may be stated and proved by a very simple method
which I shall now proceed to describe.
    § 1. When a very thin circular plate is charged with elec
 tricity to a given potential V0, the equi potential surfaces are
 spheroids, and the potential at every poiut of the surround
ing space is given by the equation
                       V=—^in-1—,                                   (1)
 where c represents the radius of the plate, and «, and s2 the
 longest and shortest lines drawn from the point under con
 sideration to its circumference. Now the angle figuring in
 this formula has a simple geometrical meaning. For, let in
 fig. 1 the plane of the plate represent a plane through the
 point P and the centre 0 of the disk normal to the latter.
 This plane cuts the circumference of the disk at the points
 A and C. Thus we have
                     AC = 2c,    PA = S!,    PC=«S.
 Bisecting the angle APC by AD, drawing the perpendicular
 DE on AC in the plane of the disk, it is easily seen that
                           sin EPD=
                                       «l + *2
 The double of this angle EPD is the greatest angle which
 any chord of the plate subtends as seen from P. Since it
 frequently occurs in the following considerations, I venture to
    * Abstract from a paper in Verdagen en Mededeelingen der Koninklyhe
 Academic van Wtttenschapptn. Communicated by tbe Author.

    Potential of the Electric Field near a Spherical Bowl.     39
designate it by the more or less appropriate term of amplitude
of the disk with regard to P.
    Accepting this term, the following verbal expression may
be given to formula (1) : —
     When a thin circular disk is charged to potential it, the
potential at every point of space is numerically equal to the
amplitude of the disk with regard to that point.
    Of course it is supposed that no other electrical charges are
present in the field.
    Now by Thomson's theory of electrical images, from every
function V, which satisfies Laplace's equation (A2V = 0),
another function which satisfies the same equation may be
derived by the following process of inversion. A point
within the space where A'2V = 0 is connected by a straight
line with the centre of any spherical surface of radius a ; let
the distance be p ; on the same radius another point is chosen
at a distance r from the centre, both distances being con
nected by the relation pr=c?. This point is the image of the
former.     A function having the value -/ at the image, while
the particular value of the function V at the original point
 is/, satisfies Laplace's equation.
    § 2. We shall apply this theorem to a function analogous to
 the potential of a charged disk, but distinct from it in certain
 particulars. Instead of the amplitude of a disk we shall
 consider the amplitude of a segment of a spherical surface,
 i.e. the amplitude of a bowl. This amplitude may be defined
 thus : For nearly all points of space it is identical with that
 of a disk having the same boundary ; there exists only a
 difference for points situated in the space between the bowl
 and the plane of its rim. For those points the amplitude of
 the bowl is 2tt minus the amplitude of the rim ; thus it is
 greater than it, much in the same way as the solid angle sub
 tended at the same points by the bowl exceeds 27r.
     In the case of a disk the potential attains a maximum value
 for points on the disk ; the function now under consideration
 has its maximum on the bowl ; the differential-quotients of
 both functions are identical as to their absolute value, but they
 differ in sign for points within the space between the bowl
 and the plane of its rim. Thus our new function satisfies
 Laplace's equation throughout space ; it is discontinuous
 with its differential-quotients only on the bowl, where it has
 two values, those for outer and inner points supplementing
 each other to 2ir. The equipotential surfaces are still sphe
 roids ; but to those which cut the segment belong two distinct
 potentials.

40         Dr. J. N. Kruseman on the Potential of the
   The thus defined function we are to invert, taking for
centre and radius of the inversion the centre and radius of
the sphere, of which the bowl forms a part, so that this latter
becomes its own image.
   The function obtained by the inversion will be discontinuous
for points on the bowl, since the original function is discon
tinuous for the same points ; the inner and outer values have
only interchanged.
   And now finally we may imagine a function the value of
which at any point is the algebraical sum of the values of
both the original and inverted functions. It is evident that
this new function has the following properties :—
    1st. It is continuous for points on the bowl, as well as for
all other points.
   2nd. On the bowl it has the constant value 2tt.
   3rd. Its differential-quotients of the first order are con
tinuous for all points of space, those situated on the bowl
making the only exception.
   4th. It satisfies Laplace's equation.
   5th. It vanishes at infinity.
   Now a function having these properties fulfils all the con
ditions necessary and sufficient for the potential of the bowl.
   Thus the first part of the problem mentioned at the head of
this article is solved for the case that the bowl is charged to
potential 2ir. Had it been charged to any other potential V0,
we should have had of course to multiply our function by
the factor —-•
   The algebraic expression of the function is then
               V=— i sin 1                +    sin 1         )¦,
                    ir L             +       r       h + c2j
where <t and t3 are related to the image of the considered
point as sx and sa are to the point itself.
    But from a figure it is seen at once that
                               «! _ s3 _ r
                               <i      tg a
   Thus we have finally
             xr V0/ . , 2c                 a . ,r      2c \        ...
              V=— 7T -?(. sin-1 «i +; s2 +-8U1-1
                                           r       a   +;—8j J>. . (2)
                                                                   v '
    With respect to the angles that appear in this formula it
follows from the foregoing considerations that, since the first
must be taken obtuse when the considered point lies in the

  Electric Field in the neighbourhood of a Spherical Bowl.  41
space between the bowl and the plane of its rim, the second
is obtuse when the image of the point lies within the same
space. In all other cases the angles are acute.
   § 3. As an application of (2) we may calculate the capacity
of the bowl by writing down the potential at the centre of
the sphere, which obviously is equal to the charge of the
bowl divided by the radius of curvature.
   We find thus
                     V=Xo(sin-'C-+n,
                          it (.     a a)
or, writing 2a for the amplitude of the bowl with regard to
the centre,
                     ir       i i •     )    E
                      V = — \ a + smav= —.
                           7r '        >     a
Thus                  n E _ a(a + sin a)
                      C = V0          7T       '
the same as the value given in Watson and Burbury's
'Electricity' (p. 142).
   The same authors treat (§ 141) of the effect on the poten
tial of making a small hole in a spherical or infinite plane
conductor.
   The result they arrive at needs a correction. From our
formula (2) it follows easily that, when c is small compared
with a, 8y and *3 the potential is given by the formula,
                    v_Voa Jo cV~a')
                     V~ r + Gir'         «3a2 '
where s represents the distance of the point from the centre
of the hole, while terms of higher order than the third are
neglected.
    It follows that the system is not equivalent to a complete
 sphere charged to potential V0, together with an additional
 charge on the aperture.
    Our equation gives without difficulty the charge induced
 on the bowl by a quantity E of electricity concentrated at
 any point in its neighbourhood. For, if we bring a charge
  — Yga in the centre of the sphere, the bowl being formerly
 charged to V0 and insulated, the potential of the bowl will
 become null, while the distribution of its electricity remains
 unchanged. At any point P where the potential had the
 value V it will now be V — V0."; thus V represents the
 potential of the     induced charge at the point P when

42            Dr. J. N. Kruseman on the Potential of the.
the bowl is electrically connected with the earth and in its
centre of curvature a charge — V0a is concentrated.
    When we no«v call to mind the reciprocal property of
Green's function, we know at the same time the potential at
the centre when the inducing charge is at P, and from that
we may derive at once the induced charge of the bowl by
multiplying by a.
    Writing E for — V0a, we find thus for that charge
            „
            Q=            . 1
                    E <c sin   2c h a- sin     1 -. _2e\m
                                             . ,r    •      > .
                    7T (_      -t- s2     r      a «j + s2 J
    §4. As a last application of (2) we proceed now to find the
distribution of the electricity on the insulated and charged
bowl.
    To this effect we choose two points situated on the same
radius, equally distant from the bowl. When their distance
from it is taken infinitely small (£/•), then these points are
each other's images. The outer point we designate by A,
the inner one by B. For the amplitudes of the bowl with
regard to the point where it is cut by the line A 13, we write
u and 2v—u, u being the outer aud 2ir— u the inner value.
    We have thus,
                                                S>t,
              • for the amplitude at A, u + or Br,
                   »         »       » B> 2,r_(M~ 575r )•
    The inversion gives,
          for the function at A, —^-$-$ 2ir—u+             Sr \,
                                    tt + dV I.         br     ) '
    Thus for the potential, when the bowl is charged to potential
    For the surface-densities on the convex and concave sides
   * Comjare this result with Theoiem II. Chapter iii. in Maxwell's
' Electricity.'

  Electric Field in the neighbourhood of a Spherical Bowl.              43
of the bowl we find then,
                                 l   or         a     )
                     4770-'=- ] 2 — + - [.
                                  L or        a J
   Now we have
                            2c
                         sL + s2'           2a     '    *    2a
Thus
                      Su                   2c
And, finally, multiplying by y      Vn
                                    — to make the potential on the
                                    2tt
bowl V0 instead of 2ir
              V0 , V0 r              -2,
       47Tff= — + — -< —                  „      . — sin 1           >,
              ita ira i y/^ + ^y'—i,?                        *i + *2J
      47roJ=          —<                        „ — sm 1 —¦— J- .
   Assuming polar coordinates, taking the centre of the bowl
for pole and its centre of curvature for origin, then
                     a . a + r)                   . a—n
                *, = 2asin—^—  —¦ ,    s8 = 2asin — ,
                    . o         2c            /l + cos a
                   sm zu=             =a /                 ,
                             *l + *2       V 1+ COS 71
                  i o                  2c                 / 1+ cos a
                  tan 2u=—7=                —==, = a /                  •
                             v (^i + «j) —4<r          V cos ij — cos a
    Substituting these values, we have
  4™'=         f a / '+<"««_ -tan-i . / 1+COSa ) ,
           7ra I. V cos 7} — cos a                   V cos 17 — cos a J
and for 47rcr the same value with the addition of — .
                                                              TTU
   These are Thomson's expressions for the density (Re
print, p. 185).
    § 5. To solve the second part of our problem, we shall make
 use of the following theorem :—
    When two functions, being so related that by inversion
 their values interchange, are inverted once more with regard

44         Dr. J. N. Kruseman on the Potential of the
to an arbitrary sphere, they will remain each other's inverted
functions with respect to the image of the first sphere.
    Or otherwise : When a function is inverted several times
in succession the resulting function is independent of the
order in which the inversions are effected.
    This theorem may easily be proved with the aid of a simple
figure (fig. 2) and a very small amount of calculation. Even
without proof it will readily be accepted, being rather obvious.
    We apply it to the potential of the spherical bowl, which
we suppose to be a part of the spherical surface, represented
 (in section) by fig. 2.
    The potential of A consists of two parts, which are each
other's inverted functions with regard to the sphere ; they will
continue to be so related after an inversion with P for centre,
and the tangent 0 from P to the sphere for radius. The first
term is the amplitude of the bowl at A multiplied by the factor
s—     By the inversion the lines drawn from A to the rim of the
bowl become circular arcs through P B (the image of A with
respect to the sphere), and points of the rim of a new bowl,
the image of the first with respect to P : this of course forms
a part of the same sphere, the latter remaining unchanged
after the inversion. It is this new bowl with which we pre
sently shall have to deal. From the elementary theory of the
reciprocal radii, it follows that the angles formed by the cir
cular arcs, referred to above, are the same as those between
the lines of which they are the inversion. For shortness'
sake I would venture to call the greatest of these the circular
amplitude of the new bowl with respect to P and B. I shall
designate it by the symbol 28.
   The first term of the inverted potential now becomes
                           v    2±.±.
                             °'2ir PB
   The second term is the inverted function of that represented
by the first term with respect to the sphere. Thus it has at
the point B the value that the first term has at B', multiplied
by jj^ .   We may write for it
                       v     20' _b       o_
                         0 * 2tt ' PB' " OB '*
where 29' represents the circular amplitude of the new bowl
with respect to P and B'. In the new system the bowl has

  Electric Field in the neighbourhood of a Spherical Bowl.     45
not a constant potential, but for the point C on the bowl it is
However, by concentrating at P a quantity of electricity
— V(Jb, the potential on the bowl becomes null ; and at B we
have, writing E for — V0£>,
                   E     E f 0            a& \
              V_ PB~7r\FB + PB'. UBJ"                '  '   '  {)
   This accordingly is the expression for the potential at any
point B in the electric field, determined by a charge E at P,
the bowl being connected by a thin conducting wire with the
earth. What still remains to be done is to express 6 and &
as functions of any parameters, which are capable of defining
the positions of P and B with reference to the bowl and to
each other.
    This purely geometrical problem requires for its solution
rather lengthy calculations. At least 1 have not been able to
compress them within narrower limits than is done in the
following paragraph.
    § 6. The problem before us may be stated thus :—
    Being given in space a circle and two arbitrary points ;
draw all possible circles through the two points and a point
of the given circumference : it is required to find the greatest
angle enclosed between two of these circles.
    We shall solve this problem by the method of the reciprocal
 radii, of which the theory of electrical images is the extension.
The figure defined in the statement of the problem we shall
transform by the said method into fig. 1.
    To this effect we assume a coordinate system with B for
 origin, and the line drawn from B to P for positive z axis.
 We suppose the circle to be given as the section of a sphere
 through B, and a plane.
    Let the equation of the plane be
                       ax + fy + jz-p=0,                       (4)
 with the condition
                        «s + /S2 + 72 = l;
 that of the sphere be
                (tf-«)2+(y-«)2+(*-«;)2=Va,            ...      (5)
 with the condition
                        M2 + U2 + W2 = V2.
    To invert this figure with B for centre and PB = R for

46          Dr. J. N. Kruseman on the Potential of the
radius, the following substitutions are necessary :—
                      R%         R*        R'
                  *=^*> y-fV, ~=75;
where f, ij, and ? are the coordinates of the inverted point
.r} y, z, and p'2 stands for
The plane (4) becomes a sphere,
and the sphere (5) a plane,
                                        R2
                         u!j+vr) + tcZ= —                   (5a)
The point P remains unchanged, while B becomes the point
at infinity. The quantities to be found presently are:—
    (1) The radius a of the circle determined by (4a) and (5a).
    (2) The normal h from P on (5a).
    (3) The distance b from the centre of the circle to the foot-
point of h.
    Setting, for brevity's sake,
                         an +/3v + 7W=tP,
we find without much difficulty,
    «S=4^{V»-0>-P)3},                                         (6)
    h=^(U-2w),                                                (7)
    '-{f*<«-»>vHf +"-*>
or, after some reduction,
    It may be remarked that the perpendicular h will have the
positive or negative sign according as it lies with B on the
same or the .opposite side of the plane.
    By these formula?, a, h, and b are expressed as dependent
on quantities artificially introduced by the use of a coordinate
system. We shall now proceed to get rid of those lines and
angles wholly alien to the problem, and to substitute for them

  Electric Field in the neighbourhood of a Spherical Bowl.    47
parameters naturally belonging to the figure in question.
We adopt .as such :—
   The perpendicular/) from B on the plane of the circle.
   The perpendicular pi from P on the same plane.
   The perpendicular q from the centre of the sphere (5) on
      this plane.
   The perpendicular 17, on this same plane from the centre of
      a sphere through P and the circumference.
   The radius c of the circle.
   The distance R from B to P.
   It is easily seen that these six independent quantities are
sufficient to define the figure.
   The following relations exist between the old and the new
parameters :—              pj =p-yJi,
                            c*=Y2-q2,
                                 R(2?o-R)
 "With the aid of these we transform the formulae (6), (7), and
 (8) into the following :—
                 RV
       a*= ipwwr                                            (6A)
          ~ 4/(cMV) '                                       K   >
       p= c^-4pW('/-^y + 4RV.77. jjmgg                      (Sa)
                              4p\c' + q")                '  K '
 And, finally, writing k2 for the common factor, ip2(c2 + q2),
                             K(l= R2c,
                             Kh=2pp1(q— 71),
                K\b2 - a* + h2) = 4 R2 pp^qqi + c=).
    When we now return to fig. 1, and suppose it to be the
 inverted figure, we see that
                   A = PF, 6= OF, a = OC;
 and, as before, we sot
                        PA=sl5 PC = s3.
 Thns s2=(b + a)2 + h2, gl2={b-a)2 + h2,
          s2 + ss2=2{a2 + b2 + h2),
          t* + s2-4a2 = 2(b2-a2 + h2) ,
      28^=2 V [a? + b* + 1?)'1 - 4u'V = 2 vV<''-a2 + /tY + 4aV.

48          Dr. J. N. Kruseman on the Potential of the
Therefore
          2       = 8R2 VfTOi + CT + '(J-2i)"] 5
or
               2«1«J*!,= 8R2 VpV(?' + ^H?!2 + c?)>
and
And, because
                                                2a
              tan0= tanEPD =
we have
                                        RV
The radical must always be taken with the positive sign ;
p and Pi, analogous to q and qi, have the same or the contrary
sign according as they fall on the same or the opposite side of
the plane on which they are normal.
    Equation (D) may be written in another form, and thereby
considerably simplified. To this effect we introduce the angle
APC, that we designate by 2<f>, and the line PE=«. We see
easily that
                     PE =8= V*l*2>
                     sjOjgin 2<£ = s*sin 2<£=2pc,
                     *s = s1*j = 2p »Jq1 + ci,
                     8i*8 cos 2<p = s* cos 2<f> = ipq.
Now t and ifr being quantities analogous to s and <f>, but
 having reference to the point B, we find finally, by substitu
tion in (9),
                                       2Rsc4
                  **** 9= «Vcos2(0~f>)+*V'
 or
                                      Rc
                  tan0= + -           j-
                                aicos (<f>—yfr)             (10)
                                                            v '
 An expression of remarkable simplicity.
     § 7. The same formula may be made use of to find an
 expression for & . For R, t, and yjr must only be substituted
 the quantities R', t', ¦Jr' which have the same relation to B',
 the image of B, that R, t, and yfr have to B itself.
    But (compare fig. 3)
                      <i     t%    t      a       OB'

  Electric Field in tJie neighbourhood of a Splierical Bowl.   49
and
as may be seen from the similar triangles,
                          OBTi-OTjB',
and
                          OBTs~OT2B'.
   a has the same signification as above.
   yfr and yfr' must be reckoned positive whenever the points
they are related to lie with 0 on the same side of the plane of
the rim.
    Now equation (3) becomes
       y^E       Ell fan_,          + cR
            R    IT \ R        8t cos (<f>—ty)
                   ,    a    , _, _±cRAOB__\
                  + R'.OBmn a.«.tcos(0+*-«) J "              *   '
The apparent want of symmetry of this formula with respect
to the points P and B vanishes when we consider that
                        PB'. OB = P'B.OB,
 which relation is immediately proved by looking at fig. 3.
    § 8. Formula (11) contains the general solution of the
 second part of the problem mentioned at the head of this paper.
 But to make it of general application, we have to explain
 how to decide in each given case on the signs to be given to
 tan 6 and tan 9' ; or, what amounts to the same, whether the
 angles figuring in the equation are acute or obtuse. Now, in
 our considerations on the potential of the isolated bowl, from
 infinite space a finite part was singled out. For points within
 that limited space the angle in the first term of the potential
 was obtuse : the angle in the second term was obtuse when
 the image of the considered point was situated within the space,
 originally limited by the bowl and the plane of the rim, which
 by inversion becomes a space bounded by the bowl and part
 of the spherical surface that may be constructed through the
 rim of the new bowl and the point P. Since in the original
 figure the point at infinity is external to the space above
 defined, in the transformed figure the point P (the image of
 the point at infinity) is always external.
    Thus we have the following rule to decide whether the
 angles in formula (11) are to be taken acute or obtuse ; in
 other words, whether the upper or under sign is to be used.
    Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 24. No. 146. July 1887.          E

  50    ¦     Dr. J. N. Kruseman on the Potential of tlie
     Construct a spherical surface through one of the given
  points and the rim of the bowl. A part of this surface and
  the bowl determine a limited space, which does not contain
  the chosen point ; when the other point lies within that space
  the angle in the first term is obtuse ; when its image is within
  it the second angle is obtuse ; in all other cases the angles are
  acute (compare fig. 4).
     § 9. For the particular case that the bowl becomes a plane
  disk, B' the image of B is with B on the same perpendicular
  and at the same distance from the plane of the disk. More
  over
                         " =1,         « = 0.
                        OB
  Thus      ¦
v_E_Efl            _t     ±c.R            1            ±c.W        \
   R ttIR             st cos (<f>-yfr) + K'       s t cos (<f> +t) J '
     This is the solution of the problem that Sir W. Thomson
  had in view when he said, at the end of the cited memoir,
  " It would be interesting to continue the analytical investi
  gation far enough to determine the electric potential at any
  point in the neighbourhood of a disk electrified under
  influence."
     The same formula holds for the case of an infinite plane
  with a circular aperture. The difference lies in the space
  above defined, as is shown in figs. 5 and 6.
     Formula (11) may, of course, be applied to the case of a
  spherical surface without any aperture, and the known formulas
  are then easily found.
     § 10. Perhaps it will be not uninteresting to give the ex
  pansions of formula (2) in spherical harmonics. I shall not,
  however, show how to get the series ; but I shall write the
  equation down, and afterwards demonstrate its truth. It takes
  the following forms :—
  where (j>n is a zonal harmonic, the coefficient of xn in the
  expansion of (1 +#2— 2x cos 6) ~*.
     I shall presently show that the function defined by equa
  tions (13) has the following properties:—

  Electric Field in the neighbourhood of a Spherical Bowl. 51
      (1)        A*V'=0,                A2V=0.
      (2)   for r=a,      6«x,           V'=V=V0.
      (3)   forr=a,       6>a,           V'=V.
      (4)   forr=a,       *>«„         (f)=(^>
   Since every term is a spherical harmonic, the first-named
property is evident. To prove the exactness of the other
statements, we take as a starting-point the function
                       (l+«3-2^cos^)_i
of the complex argument z. This function has two points of
discontinuity, namely,
                              z = e±'<,
whose moduli are equal to unity.         We may write thus
   (1 + MV'a-2Me'a cos 0)-4= 2 We™-$n for M < 1,
and
   (l+MV'»-2Me«'cos 0)_i= ^ S^JV'^n for M>1.
 Since the function is continuous for M=l (unless 8 = a), and
since both expressions become identical in that case, we
have generally
                                            CO
               (1 +e2ia-2e'acos 0)_1 = Sen,a<A„,
                                            o
with the only condition 9^a. Or
                        a          a
                   cos-t- — t sin-r        oo
                           a        J      o
                           — — nos-*
                     COS2 —r    COS*
and, multiplying by e'a,
                       a       .a.
                   cos -g + 1 sin -Tj-
                     cos* — cos' -g-
   Separating the real and imaginary parts of these formula?,
we must make a distinction between the cases 6 < a and 6 > a
We find,
                                  E 2

52        Dr. J. N. Kruseman on the Potential of the
     For 0<<x:
                                       a
                                  sin
            2 <£n cos na=     j- a -            -, ...     (a)
                          2\/cos2 1- cos2 1
                                        a
                                  COS
             2tf>Bsinna=      .       ff     = , .   .  .  (6)
                          2<y/ cos2 ^ -cos2 1
                                          a
       £</>ncos(n + l)a =     /       a       =='  • •  •  0)
                          2<\/cos2 -|- cos2 -|
                                         a
                                   cos y
       2^nsin(n + l)o=         ,— a          == • .   .  . {d)
                                COS* -_-— cos' g-
      For 6 > a :
                                         a
                                   cos 2
             £<£ncosna=       7====, ...                   (a*)
                                       f    . , a.
                           5^/sin2
                                       2 ~ 8111 T
                                      . a
                                  - sin 2
             %<f>nsmna=                            . . .   (&')
                                 sin2 1 -sin2 |
                                         a
                                   cos-g
       2^cos(7t+l)a= -          „F-=_, ...(</)
                          "2V Sin 2 ~ Sm 2
                                     . a
                                    sin -g
       S<£„sin(n + l)a=        7       fl —        • •  •
                           2^/sin2 g - sin2 ~
    Integrating (a) and (c) between the limits 0 and a, (a')
 and (</) between the limits a and it, we have the further
 formulae :—

     Electric Field in the neighbourhood of a Spherical Bowl. 53
         For 6<a:
                                       (a >
                                        COS \
                                        —w ) + T>          •    •   •    W
                                        cos g /
                                               a
         v      sin (n+1) a           _1/C°S2\ 7r
                    L1       =-cos M           3-1+0- •       •   •    (/)
                   ^+1                          0
                                         \COS s-.
 For 0>a :
           . sin na    ^ , sin (n + 1) a       .   , /sm o \
                                                     \sin r/
 By addition of (e) and (/) we see at once that
                            V = V = v0
 for 0<a, r=a.
     The differentiation of (13) gives, for r = a,
     /SV'\          V0"r.           .        x       sin (n+1) ol,
     l-sr-l     = — 2 smna + sin (n+l)a                  ^—           <£
     /8V \         V0 S T ¦      i • i , i\          sm nal j
    I\ tt-  I =—
       or Jr=a     to Zo Lsin na + sin (n + 1) a      na Jr" d> .
Thus, for 0 > a, we have
                                                 U.n-y
   The mere inspection of the series (13) shows that for r — a
V=V, and that V vanishes at infinity.
   The function defined by the series has the stated properties,
and accordingly it satisfies all the conditions required for the
potential in the neighbourhood of a bowl charged to potential
   For 6 < a, we find, moreover,

  54          Mr. E. C. Eimington on a Method of
    When we introduce a and 5 instead of g- and ^, Thom
 son's formula? for the density reappear. It is to he noticed,
 however, that in this paragraph these formula? have been
 proved without making use of the theory of electrical images.
IV. On a Modification of a Method of Maxwell's for
   Measuring the Coefficient of Self-induction. By E. C.
   RlMINGTON*.
TN ' Electricity and Magnetism/ § 778, vol. ii., Maxwell
      gives a method of comparing the coefficient of self-
induction of a coil with the capacity of a condenser, the con
nexions for which are practically
as follows :—D is the resistance,                      1-
possessing self-induction ; the
armatures of a condenser, of
capacity K, are connected to
the ends of the arm B. There
are keys in the battery and gal
vanometer-circuits. An ordi
nary balance is obtained by
depressing the battery-key be
fore the galvanometer-key ; then
AC = BD. The resistances B and
D are next adjusted so that no
momentary deflection shall exist
on the galvanometer when its circuit is made before that
of the battery. Then L = KBD.
   This method is very inconvenient, as it necessitates a double
adjustment. One of the resistances, generally C, has to be
adjusted so as to give an ordinary balance ; then, in order to
obtain no deflection when the galvanoinetei'-circuit is closed,
     * Communicated by the Physical Society : read May 14, 1887.

             Measuring the Coefficient of Self-induction.          55
first the resistance B will have to be altered, as D is generally the
resistance of the coil. This necessitates a fresh adjustment of
(J, and so on.
     The first modification of this method I made was by putting
a resistance possessing no self-induction in the arm D in series
with the coil, as in fig. 2, a                    Fig. 2.
slider moving over this re
sistance and the condenser
 being connected as shown.
     An ordinary bridge-balance
is first obtained, and the slider
 is then adjusted until there is
no throw on the galvanometer,
 when its circuit is closed before
that of the battery. Then
              L = Kr2,
 where r is the resistance be
 tween the armatures of the
 condenser. This method was
 found to be insensitive, as, unless K were large, r had to be
 made high. It will not do to make K too large with an
 ordinary mirror-galvanometer, on account of a sort of double
 throw being obtained, the effect of self-induction being more
 rapid than that of the condenser, and the galvanometer not
 ballistic enough. I then adopted the following modification,
 which answers very well.
     The arm B is a resistance
 on which two sliders move,
 one of them being connected
 to each armature of the con
 denser K.
     Obtain a permanent ba
 lance ; then AC = BD.
     Now adjust sliders until
 there is also a balance when
  galvo.-circuit is closed first.
  Let x be the current flowing
 in the arms A and D when
  it has attained its permanent
  value, and let y be that in
  the arms B and C. Let r
  be the resistance between the sliders when both balances are
  obtained. Let the battery and galvanometer circuits be both
  closed, and let the former be broken. The quantity of elec
  tricity which passes through the galvanometer due to the

56           Mr. E. C. Rimington on a Method of
self-induction in D
                       Lz              A+B
                                   x
            ~           G(A + B) " G+A + B
               C+D+G+A+B
                        La?B
            = B(C + D) + Q(B + C)' SinC6 AC=BD-
The quantity which passes through the galvanometer, due to
the discharge of the condenser,
                              r            C+D
                    A + ^ + G+C+~D
            = B(c+$+G(B+cy since AC=BD-
   Now these quantities obviously pass through the galvano
meter in opposite directions ; and if there is no throw, they
must be equal. Therefore
                 LaB                    Kyr'C
        B(C + D) + G(B + C) ~ B(C + D) + G(B + 0)'
                             L = Kr^.°
                                         B
Now          y D.            x      ,D
             !=CJ            L=K'2B-
If r=B, we have Maxwell's method, and
                           L = KBD.
   Of course it is not necessary to use two sliders ; one
armature of the condenser can be connected either to the
junction of A and B or to the junction of B and C, and the
other to the slider ; but by having B composed of two slide-
resistances, the smaller one being equal to the resistance of
one of the coils of the larger, and employing a slider on each,
a much greater range of adjustment can be obtained.
   Suppose r to be slightly out of adjustment by an amount 8.
Then the quantity which passes through the galvanometer, or
                         K(r + 8)2Cy-BL.E
                    9_B(C + D) + G(I5 + (J)'
Now # =               ^     K(r+g)2D-BL
                  •¦¦?-a7B(U + D; + G(B + (J)'

             Measuring the Coefficient of Self-induction.     57
and since BL=Kr2D,
                                   2KrSD
                      9-*B(C + D) + G(B + C)-
If p be the fractional error in r, S=pr ;
                                   2Kr!!Dp
                      ?-*B(C + D) + G(B + C)"
Now                           E                 C
                 X~      (A + D)(B + C) X C + D
                     p+ A + B + G + D
                                  n
                   = B-
                       p(C + D) + D(B + C)'
 since AC = BD ;       and Kr2D = BL ;
                                 2ELpBC
                                  2E/p
    '*• ?"{p(C + D) + D(B + C)}{B(C         + D) + G(B + G)f
        1=
            {P(1+°)+D(I+|)}|c+D+a(i+e)}
      If we wish to make q as large as possible for a given value
 of p, we must make C small and consequently B also small.
  Of course B cannot be less than r, and will generally be a
 given resistance, depending on the apparatus we are employing,
 if B is given, differentiating the expression for q with respect
 to C, and equating to zero, we obtain
                           /BL>(G + D)(p + B)
                                (G + B)(P + D)
  If p is small compared to the other resistances, this oives
                             V G+B
      This method can be made much more sensitive by adopting
  the principle employed by Professors Ayrton and Perry in
  their admirable instrument the Secohmmeter. A commutator
  is introduced into the battery and galvanometer-circuits, which
  by its revolution puts on the battery, the galvanometer-circuit
  being closed, breaks the latter, or short-circuits the galvano
   meter and then breaks the battery-circuit, afterwards closing
   the galvanometer-circuit, repeating this cycle of operations
   during each revolution. In this method neither the speed of
   the commutator nor the fraction of the cycle during which

58           Mr. E. 0. Rimington on a Method of
the battery and galvanometer are on together need be known,
as is the case with the secohmmeter.
   To find the conditions under which a telephone may replace
the galvanometer.
   In order that the galvano
meter may he replaced by a
telephone it is necessary that
the current through it at any
moment shall be zero. Con
sequently i>! must equal r,
always. Therefore the resist
ance of Gr may be anything.
Let it be infinite, and let x
be the current in A, D, C,
and B— r, y the current in r, and q the charge on the con
denser at anjr moment t after the battery-circuit is broken.
   Let x0 be the current in D, y0 the current in r, and q0 the
charge on tbe condenser at the moment of breaking the
battery-circuit, and suppose the break is not prolonged by a
spark at the contact.
   Then                       n 7*
                (C + D)«+L^=rl-»i=0J                         (i)
                (A + B— r)x— ry = 0, .     .   .            (2)
                           dq
                                                             (3;
From (2),
                      A + B-r
                y=x
and therefore from (3),
                  A+B         dq
                                                             (4)
                              dt'
Now from (1),
                        dx
                                   -j-dt,
                        x
                    Jx„ x           L   J-   '
or
                                   C+D
                    log — = —
                        40
                                    C+D
                          x=x0e
   Again, since the resistance of G may be anything, let it

            Measuring the Coefficient of Self-induction.             59
 equal zero ; then the condenser is discharging through a
 resistance equal to
               r(A + B-r) = r{B(C + D)-P}
                   A+B              B(C+D)            '
 since
                            AC = BD.
 Therefore
                _ rJB(C+ D)-Orl        <        B(C+D)
          ?=?0g        B(C+D)              »              f}
 and
        <ty          B(C + D)         -1.        gc+P)
      -^=^K7jB(C + D)-0n e K '{B<c+D>-C'>-
 Also
             „          . A + B B(C + D)
        q0=Ky0r     and          =           i-
Substituting these values in (4), we obtain
    B(C + D) _c±^t              B(0 + D)                 ¦«>+»>     ,
 *o —Or— 6 h =y°' B(C + D)-0 'e KrJ.B(C+D)-c'J •
Also                          _C m
 therefore
         1    9±2<            D                b(c+d)         f
         r6 L = B(0 + D)-O' ^C+D^\ ¦
 This equation must hold for every value of t ; hence
                        r = B(0 + D)-Cr'           •   •    •   • (A)
and
                 C+ D _           B(C + D)
                   L ~Kr{B(0 + D)-O}*                             (B)
   From (A),
                        rD=B(0 + D)-O,
                r(C + D)=B(C + D);
                    .-. r=B     or C=-D.
   From (B),
                  L_ Kr\B(0 + D)-Gr\
                    =Kr(c + D-rg).

 60                 Mr. R. H. M. Bosanquet on
    Ifr=B,                  L=KBD.
    If C=-D,                L=Ky»g-
     As r=B is the only solution possible, the method can only
 be used with a telephone under the conditions given by Max
 well, and is impracticable on account of the trouble met with
 in obtaining the double adjustment.
      V. Note on Magnetization.— On Sequences of Reversals.
                    By R. H. M. Bosanquet*.
 THE present paper arose out of a recent discussion, at a
        meeting of the Physical Society, on Prof. Ayrton's paper
 on the magnetic resistance of a broken ring. I alluded on that
 occasion to the determinations of the magnetism of rings and
 bars which I had made. In answer to a question as to the
 course I had pursued as to ascending or descending values of
 magnetism, I stated that in all cases Ihad taken the values in
 the ascending order. But I omitted to make it clear that the
 observations were made by reversal, so that the direct effects
 of residual magnetism were necessarily eliminated. The
 arrangement I have always employed may be described as an
 ascending sequence of reversals.
    There can bo no doubt, however, that, in sequences of re
 versals, the historj- of previous magnetizations produces some
 effect. I still consider that the best way of attacking the
problem is to take the first ascending sequence, in which the
history is a minimum, and then as a subsequent study to deal
 with the effects of the history.
    Immediately after the discussion above alluded to I made a
few experiments on the first bar I ever completely determined,
with the view of ascertaining the general character presented
by series of successive reversals. The original determinations
will be found at Phil. Mag. (1884) xvii. pp. 531-6, Soft-Iron
Bar I.
    I shall confine myself at present to the values of magnetic
resistance. The reason for preferring this datum is that, when
plotted with the induction as abscissa, the form of the curve
of magnetic resistance is approximately independent of the
arrangement of the metal, the only material differences occur
ring in the region of saturation. Thus values for bars and
rings differ only by a constant, which may be regarded as due
to the shape. Bars with pole-pieces have similar curves lying
between those for bars and rings. See Phil. Mag. xxii. p. 303,
and the paper above referred to.
     » Communicated by the Physical Society : read April 23, 1887.

                        Sequences of Reversals.                            61
    I shall call the old experiments the first ascending se
quence (A). Then I made a series which I shall call the
second ascending sequence (B). Then a final descending
sequence (C).
     The first values of B, which follow the old saturation, have
the resistance somewhat higher than that found when the bar
was fresh. After a few reversals, however, the effect of the
history seems to disappear as the values ascend, and the value
for mean inductions (minimum value of resistance) is almost
exactly the same as before. The saturation-value corresponds
to a higher induction than would be given by the old curve.
     The succeeding curve of descending values (C) shows in
 creased resistance, or less magnetism, in the mean inductions.
 As the small inductions are approached the curve of C crosses
the old curve, and ends with a lower resistance, or greater
 magnetism than the original initial value.
     The effects of ascending and descending sequences of re
 versals on the initial values would therefore appear to be
 opposite in direction. At the same time the recent experi
 ments are few in number, and a much more extensive course of
 work will have to be done before conclusions on these points
 can be drawn with generality.
     I should like to say a few words on the relation of results
 of this description to the molecular hypothesis, by means of
 which I have represented a large number of experiments.
 First, as to the position in which the hypothesis stands.
      I am quite unable to understand how Weber's hypothesis
  can be applied to account for such laws as we are dealing
  with, i. e. where the initial magnetic resistance is greater than
  that for mean inductions. The hypothesis, which I have
  worked out and applied in detail to a large number of experi
  mental cases of all sorts*, depends on two chief processes ;
  the one of which accounts chiefly for the larger initial values
  of the magnetic resistance, the other for the larger saturation-
  values.
      First, as to the saturation-values. Each magnetic particle
  is supposed to transmit the magnetism through a certain axis
  and not otherwise. Using the analogy of a hole in a bead,
  packed with wires, the permeability so far is measured by the
  portion of the hole left unoccupied, or by what I call the
  defect of saturation. This alone would lead to a law of per
  meability similar to Frolich's supposed law of the conductivity
   of magnets with ends.
      Next, to account for the initial values. The axes of the
   particles being distributed uniformly in all directions, there
      * Phil. Mag. (1885) xix. pp. 73 & 333; xx. p. 318 ; xxii. p. 298 : xxiii.
   p. 350.

62                      On Sequences of Reversals.
will be an action arising from the tension of the lines of force
tending to draw all the axes towards the mean direction of the
magnetism ; and thus the length of the path, and consequently
the resistance, will be diminished as the magnetism increases.
This has all been worked out in detail and shown to be capable
of representing the facts minutely, in the papers referred to.
All I want to show here is that we can refer our results as to
increase or diminution of resistance by sequences of reversals
to this theory. For the permeability would be diminished by
partially filling up the saturation-capacity, and increased by
partially fixing the molecules in positions of diminished resist
ance. All magnetization tends to retain the latter change in
the same direction ; i. e. to diminish the mean inclination of
the axes, and consequently the resistance. But successive
reversals of diminishing currents are capable of removing the
greater part of the magnetism that sticks in the particles
(subpermanent magnetism). This accounts generally for the
observation that immediately after saturation the resistance is
increased, but when a descending sequence of reversals is in
terposed the resistance is diminished. For the large residual
charge after saturation diminishes the permeability to an ex
tent exceeding the effect of inclination of axes. But when
the residual charge is dispersed by the reversals of a descend
ing sequence, the effect of the diminished inclination of the
axes remains, and increases the initial permeability.
   The figure and Tables which follow exhibit the results of
the experiments in question.
             Soft-Iron Bar           "938 centim. radius,
                                 28*55 centim. length.
              A                       B.                  O.
     Original neeonding      Second ascending    Descending sequence.
          sequence.               sequence.
       »,            P-        ».            P-     8.          P-
                 centim.                 centim.             centim.
         25        •343          14         •356      15       •328
        168        •315         106         •342     237       •289
        414        ¦272         258         ¦314     978       •254
      1,423        •237         276         •305   2,529       •250
      2,467        •238         384         ¦286   5,577       •246
     10,210        •233       1,244         •257
    17,214         •299      4,384          ¦231
    17,858         •331     19,396          •385
    19,289         •445
    19,650         •552

                     On the Self-induction of Wires.                       63
         Sequences of Reversals of Magnetism of SofViron Bar.
                  p = magnetic resistance, in centimetres.
            !—                                                   i
            >-                                                 1 ¦1
                                                             f
               \\
                                                            1
                                                           1
                                                          1
               \            ry )ic a. C ur           /
                   \    < ! R 5° f £ of t. 'Ol     /
                1000      9000           10,000        -'           30,000
                     iA            original ascending sequence.
                      B            second ascending sequence.
                      C            descending sequence.
   The length of the ring is supposed to be the same as that of
the bar ; *. e. 28-55 centim.
         VI. On the Self-induction of Wires.—Part VII.
                        By Oliver Heaviside*.
[Eehata.—Part V. Equation (25«), for C0 read C0a, and for (m' read
   (m2-\-n2). Last equation on page 23, putp after the ^ in the nume
   rator. Part VI. Equation (40c), for 2c, read 2xcv Fifth line from
   end of page 200, for L2 read L'a. Second line on page 201, for x read z.]
  QOME Notes on Part VI.— (1) After my statement on
     pp.177, 178, vol. xxiii., of the general condition of conjugacy
 of a pair of conductors, and the interpretation of the set of
equations into which it breaks up, I stated that in cases where,
by the presence of inverse powers ofp, there could not be any
                      * Communicated hj the Author.

64                   Mr. 0. Heaviside on the
steady current in either of the to-be conjugate conductors due
 to impressed force in the other, a true resistance-balance was
 still wanted to ensure conjugacy, when the currents vary. I am
 unable to maintain this hasty generalization. In the example
 I gave, equations (59c) to (61c), in which each side of the
 quadrilateral consists of a condenser and a coil in sequence, so
 that there can be no steady current in the bridge-wire, it is true
 that the obvious simple way of getting conjugacy is to have a
 true resistance-balance. The conditions may then be written
          R!R4=R2R3,      S1S4=S2S3,    L^I^ = L2L3 ; .    .   (Id)
and either
                                and yi=y*> '
or else                             *"*       \ ¦   ¦   ¦ ¦   (*0
                                and^1^3'
                      «2 = ^4,      #2 = ^4 J
where R stands for the resistance and L for the inductance of
a coil, S for the capacity of the corresponding condenser, x for
the coil time- constant L/R, and y for the condenser time-
constant RS ; that is, we require either vertical or else hori
zontal equality of time-constants, electrostatic and electro
magnetic, subject to certain exceptional peculiarities similar
to those mentioned in connexion with the self-induction
balance. It is also the case that on first testing the power of
evanescence of the other factor on the right of equation (61c),
it seemed to always require negative values to be given to
some of the necessarily positive quantities concerned. But a
closer examination shows that this is not necessary. As an
example, choose
       R1 = l,      R,=2,       R3=3,         R4 = 10,-)
       L^is,        L2=5,       L,=if,        L4=f, K     .    (3d)
        Sx=7,       S2=5,       S3=fJ,        S4=i$.J
    It will be found that these values satisfy the whole of equa
tions (61c), and yet the resistance-balance is not established.
No doubt simpler illustrations can be found. We must there
fore remove the requirement of a resistance-balance when
there can be no steady current, although the condition of a
resistance-balance, when fulfilled, leads to the simple way of
satisfying all the conditions.
    (2) Similar Systems.—If V = ZXC be the characteristic
equation of one system and V = Z2C that of a second, V being
the potential difference and C the current at the terminals,

                          Self-induction of Wires.                      65
they are similar when
                      Z,/Z2 = n, any numeric                          (4tf)
Here Z is the symbol of the generalized resistance of a
system between its terminals, when it is, save for its terminal
connexions, independent of all other systems ; a condition
which is necessary to allow of the form V = ZC being the full
expression of the relation between V and C, Z being a func
tion of constants and of />,p2, p3, &c, and p being djdt. To
ensure the possession of the property (4</), we require first of
all that one system should have the same arrangement as the
other, as a coil for a coil, a condenser for a condenser, or equi
valence (as, for instance, by two condensers in sequence being
equivalent to one) ; and, next, that every resistance and in
ductance in the first system be n times the corresponding
resistance and inductance in the second system, and every
capacity (electrostatic) in the second system be n times the
corresponding one in the first.
    Then, if the two systems be joined in parallel, and exposed
to the same external impressed force at the terminals, the
potentials and electromotive forces will be equal in corre
sponding parts, whilst the current in any part, of the second
system will be n times that in the corresponding part of the
first. Also the electric energy, the magnetic energy, the dis-
sipativity, and the energy-current in any part of the second
system are 11 times those in the corresponding part of the first.
     The induction-balance got by joining together correspond
ing points through a telephone is, of course, far more general
than the Christie balance, limited to four branches, each sub
ject to V = ZC ; at. the same time, however, it is less general
than the conditions which result when the full differential
equation is worked out*.
     By the above, any number of similar systems may be joined
in parallel, having then equal electromotive forces, and their
 currents in the ratio of the conductances. They will behave
 as a single similar system, the conductance of any part of
 which is the sum of the conductances of the corresponding
parts in the real systems ; and similarly for the capacities and
 for the reciprocals of the inductances. If, on the other hand,
 they be put in sequence, the resultant Z is the sum of the
 separate Z's, the current in all is the same, and the electro
 motive forces are proportional to the resistances.
    • This general property is, it will be seen, of great value in enabling
 us to avoid useless and lengthy mathematical investigations. In the
 ' Electrician ' for May 27, 1887, 1 have shown how to apply it to the at
 first sight impossible feat of balancing iron against copper.
     Phil. May. S. 5. Vol. 24. No. 146. July 1887.                  F

66                     Mr. 0. Heaviside on the
    When the systems are not independent the above simplicity
is lost; and I have not formulated the necessary conditions of
similarity in an extended sense except in some simple cases,
of which a very simple one will occur later in connexion with
another matter.
    (3) The Christie Balance of Resistance, Self and Mutual
Induction.—The three general conditions of this are given in
equations (72c) to (74c). If, now, we introduce the following
abbreviations,
wij = I^ + L, +L5 +2(M1j-M,s-M25),
ms= L3+L4 +L8 + 2(M45-MS4-M35),
w6= L2 + L4 +L6 +2(M65 + MM + M34),
">i3 = - L5 + MM - M 14 - Mls - MM + Mi4 + MM 4 M^, - M,
mu = — L, + Mi, + M14 + MM - MS4 - MS6 + M33 + M45 + M,
% = - L4 + M„ + M34 + M36 - M34 - M46 - MS6 - M45 - M,
the conditions mentioned reduce simply to
                           E,R4=B3R3,
 (Tni + nija + TTi^)^— »nssRi = (w3i+m3+w36)E!!— OTi6R3> J- (6rf)
                 (m1 + w13)m16=(?n3 + w13)m36.             J
   Tlie interpretation is, that as there are only three indepen
dent currents in the Christie arrangement, there can be only
six independent inductances, viz. three self and three mutual;
and these may be chosen to be the above m's, whose mean
ings are as follows. Let the three circuits be ABjB^A, CB,BiC,
and AB,CA in the figure, so
that the currents in them are
0i| C3, and C6. Then mi}
m3, and »n6 are the self, and
'"ist W!36i '"6i the mutual in
ductances of the .three cir- A
cuits.
  Now if the four*ides«f the
quadrilateral consist merely
of short pieces of wire, which
are not bent intonearly closed
curves, it is clear that ((id)
are the true conditions, to
which alone can definite meaning be attached; the inductance
of a short wire being an indefinite quantity, depending upon
the position of other wires. We may therefore start ab initio
with only these six inductances, and immediately deduce * the
                  * 'Electrician,' April 1, 1887, p. 457.

                        Self-induction of Wires.                     67
conditions (6d), saving a great deal of preliminary work. But,
on coining to practical cases, in which the inductances do
admit of being definitely localized in and between the six
branches of the Christie, we have to expand the m's properly,
using (5(2) or as much of them as may be wanted, and so
obtain the various results in Piirt VI. Therefore equations
(tirf) are only useful as a short registration of results, subject
to (bd), and in the remarkably short way in which they may
be got ; a method which is, of course, applicable to any net
work, which can only have as many independent inductances
as there are independent circuits, plus the number of pairs of
the same.
   (4) Reduction of Coils in Parallel to a Single Coil.-—On
page 186, Part VI., in speaking of the inductometer, I referred
to the most useful property that a pair of equal coils in parallel
behave as one coil to external impressed force, whatever be
the amount of mutual induction between them ; a property
which, excepting in the mention of mutual induction, I had.
pointed out in 1878*. But, although there appears to be no
other case in which this property is true for any value of the
mutual inductance, which is the property wanted, yet, if a
special value be given to it, any two coils in parallel will be
made equivalent to one.
   The condition required is obviously that Z, the generalized
resistance of the two coils in parallel, should reduce to the
form R + Lp^ Equation (30c) gives Z ; to make the reduction
possible, on dividing the denominator into the numerator, the
second remainder must vanish. Performing this work, we
find
                                       Wrzf*                       m
which shows the effective resistance and inductance of the
coils in parallel, rx and r3 being their resistances, and llt l3, m
the inductances ; subject to
                           rx     li~m
                                                                   (Sd)
                                  h—m '
giving a special value to m, which, if it be possible, will allow
the coils to behave as one coil, so that, when put in one
side of the Christie, the self-induction balance can be made.
This equation (Sd) is the expression of the making of coils 1
and 2 similar, in the extended sense, being the simple case to
which I referred. Let a unit current flow in the circuit of
         * Journal S. T. E. vol. vi.j). 303, " On Electromagnets.'

68                   Mr. 0. Heaviside on the
the two coils. Then Z, — m and l2 — m are the inductions
through them, and these must be proportional to the resist
 ances, making therefore the actual inductions through them
 always the same.
    Similarly, if any number of coils be in parallel, exposed to
 the same impressed force V, with the equations
         V = (r1 + l1p)Cl+ml3pC2 + m13pC3 + . . . ,\
         V = mj^Cx + (r3 + liP)Cs + m13pC3 + . . . , J- . . (9d)
 we have, by solution,
                 D(yV=Nn+N21 + N31 + ...,-v
                 DC2/V=N21 + N22 + N23 + ..., J.       . .  (10d)
 if D be the determinant of the coefficients of the C's in (9d),
and N„ the coefficient of m„ in D. So, if 0 = C1-(-Cj + ...
be the total current, we have
            C=V(2N)/Dj therefore Z = D/£N, . . (lid)
where the summation includes all the NJs. To reduce Z to
the single coil form, we require the satisfaction of a set of
conditions whose number is one less than the number of coils.
    The simplest way to obtain these conditions is to t;ike
advantage of the fact that, if any number of coils in parallel
behave us one, the currents in them must at any moment be
in the ratio of their conductances. Then, since, by (9c?),
         V-r1Cl=jp(/,Ci+ffi12C2 + m13C8+. . .),-
         V-r1C1=p(m„C1 + /,Cl+w»MC,+.. .), ¦ . . (12(0
         V — r3C3 =p{mnGl + tti32C2 + /3C3 +...),.
are the equations of electromotive forces, when we introduce
                     r1C,=r2C2 = r3C3 =                    (13d)
into them, we obtain the required conditions :—
      —t         r     r• • • —     r     r     r •••
      rl    rs      r3          rt    r3    r3
                              =^r, + ^?+I«
                                       r2   r3 +           K(Ud)'
The induction through every coil at any moment is the same in
amount; also the electromotive force due to its variation,and
the electromotive force supporting current, and the impressed
force.

                      Self-induction of Wires.                 69
    (5) Impressed Force in the Quadrilateral. General Property
of a Linear Network.—In my remarks on p. 190, vol. xxiii.,
relating to the behaviour of batteries when put in the quadri
lateral, I, for brevity in an already long section, left out any
reference to the theory. As is well known, in the usual
Christie arrangement (see figure, above) the steady current in
5, due to an impressed force in any one of 1, 2, 3, 4, is the
same whether 6 be open or closed, if a steady impressed force in
6 give no current in 5. But the distribution of current is not
the same in the two cases ; so that, when we change from one
to the other, the current in 5 changes temporarily; as may be
seen in making Mance's- test of the resistance of a battery, or
by simply measuring the resistance of the battery in the same
way as if it had no E.M.F., using another battery in 6, but
taking the galvanometer zero differently. We, in either case,
have not to observe the absence of a deflection ; orr which is
similar, the absence of any change in the deflection ; but the
equivalence of two deflections, at different moments of time,
between which the deflection changes. Hence Mance's method
is not a true nul method, unless it be made one by having an
induction-balance as well as one of resistance ; in which case,
if the battery behave as a mere coil or resistance, which is
sometimes nearly true, especially if the battery be- fresh, we
may employ the telephone instead of the galvanometer.
    The proof that the complete self-induction condition,
ZjZ4=Z2Z3, where the Z's stand for the generalized re
sistances of the four sides of the quadrilateral, when satisfied,
makes the current in the bridge-wire due to impressed force
in, for example, side 1, the same whether branch b' be open or
closed, without any transient disturbance, is, formally, a mere
reproduction of the proof in the problem relating to steady
currents. Thus, suppose
                             Cs = ^-\                      (12d)
where eY is a steady impressed force in side 1, and A and B the
proper functions of the resistances, in the case of the common
Christie, but without the special condition R1R4 = R2R3, which
makes a resistance-balance. Then we know that, if we intro
duce this condition into A and B, the resistance B6 can be
altogether eliminated from the quotient A/B, making C5 due
to f, independent of B6.
    Now, in the extended problem, in which it is still possible
 to represent the equation of a branch by V = ZC, wherein Z
is no longer a resistance, we have merely to write Z for R in
the expansion of A/B to obtain the differential equation of 0t;

70                   Mr. 0. Heaviside on the
and consequently, on making ZjZ4 = Z2Z3, we make A/B in
dependent of Z6. Hence, the current in the bridge-wire is
independent of branch 8 altogether when the general condition
of an induction-balance is satisfied, making branches 5 and 6
conjugate.
   But, as is known to all who have had occasion to work out
¦problems concerning the steady distribution of current in a
network, there is a great deal of labour involved, which, when
it is the special state involved in a resistance-balance, is wholly
unnecessary. This remark applies with immensely greater
force when the balance is to be a universal one, for transient
as well as permanent currents ; so that the proper course is
either to assume the existence of the property required at the
beginning, and so avoid the reductions from the complex
general to the simple special state, or else to purposely arrange
so that the reductions shall be of the simplest character.
Thus, to show, that Ce is independent of branch 6, when there
is an impressed force in (say) side 1, making no assumptions
concerning the nature of branch H, we may ask this question,
Under what circumstances is Ce independent of C9? And, to
answer it, solve for C5 in terms of et and C6, and equate the
coefficient of C6 to zero.
   Thus, writing down the equations of E.M.F. in the circuits
AB^gA and BjCB^B! in the above figure, we have
                                Z»CS— Z2C2,|
                    e\ — ZjCi + Z6C5—   Z2C2,] .... (I5d)
                     o=z3c3+z4
when there is no mutual induction between different branches,
but not restricting Z to a particular form ; and now putting
       C4= Cj — Ci + Cs, Cj = Cj — C6, CS=C6 — Cj, .          (16rf)
we obtain
          «1+ZJC6=(Z1 + Z2)C1-r>Z6C6,
                                                              (17d)
               Z*G, = (Z3 + Z4) d - { Z3 + Z4 + Z5)C6 }
which give
       „ _         (Z3+Z„V, + (Z2Z3 — ZiZ4)C6                  ,1s,v
       °6-(Z1+zs)lz3+z4)-r-z;(z1+z2+z3+z4)' •                  v**>
making C5 independent of C6 when the condition of conjugacy
of branches 5 and f> is satisfied.
    If there are impressed forces in all four sides of the quadri
lateral, then (\bd) obviously becomes
 r _ (Zi + Zt)C,-e1)-(Z, + Z2)(e3-e4) + (ZiZ,-ZlZi)Ce
 ^~            (Z1-r-Zs)(Z3-rZ4) + (Z1 + Zs + Z3 + ZJZs          >   ^Ud>

                               Self-induction of Wires.                 71
         which makes Ce always zero if ei=e3, e3 = et, and Z!Z4=Z2Z3.
         As an example, let e3=0, e4=0 ; then, if there is conjugacy
         of 5 and 6, and also
                             ei/(Z1 + Zs)=V(Zs + Z4), .... (20d)
         the impressed forces are also balanced. Putting, therefore,
         batterips in sides 1 and 3, and letting them work an inter-
         mitter in brafich 6, we obtain a simultaneous balance of their
         resistances and E.M.F.'s, and know the ratio of the latter.
         If self-induction be negligible, we may take Z as R, the
         resistance ; if not negligible, it must be separately balanced.
             But should there be mutual induction between different
         branches, this working-out of problems relating to transient
         states by merely turning R to Z partly fails. We may then
         proceed thus:—As before, write down the equations of E.M.F.
         in the circuits AB,B2A and CBjI^C, using the six independent
         inductances of these and of the circuit CABSC. Thus,
            ei = B, Cj + BSC, - B2C2 + pim^ + m13C3 + mltCe) , )          «
             0=BiC,-B,C4-B,C6+/)(mllC1-rfn,C8+n.l,Ce),)
         if there is an impressed force in side 1. As before, eliminate
          Cj, C3, and (J4 by (lb'd), and we obtain
«, + (B, -pmu) C6 = { B, + Bs +p(ml + m13) } C , + (B6 -pm13)Cs,
                                                                             , } (22d)
     {^t-pm„)Ct = { Bj + B4 +p (m, + m13) ) Cj - (R3 + R4 + B5 +pm3) C,5) )
          which, by solution for C6, give its differential equation at once
          in terms of «j and C6. To be independent of 06, we require
                   (R2 —pmu) { R3 + R4 +p (?n3 + m13) }
                           = (R4-pm3s){Rl + 'Ri+p(Tn1 + m13)}, . (23d)
          which, expanded, gives us the three equations (tic?) again,
           showing that C5 depends upon p, and the nature of sides 1, 2,
           3, and 4, subject to (2M), and of 5, but is independent of the
           nature of C6 altogether, except in the fact that the mutual
           induction between branch 6 and other parts of the system
           must be of the proper amounts to satisfy (23f/) or ((yd).
              The extension that is naturally suggested of this property
           to any network whose branches may be complex, and not
           independent, is briefly as follows. The equations of E.M.F.
           of the branches will be of the form
                     e, + V, = Zfii + Z„CS + Z13C3 + ...,"
                     e% + V,=ZS1C1 + ZSCS + Z23C3 + ...,- •     .  .  (24rf)
           wherein the Z's are differentiation-operators.

 72                  Mr. O. Heaviside on the
    Suppose branches m and n are to be conjugate, so tbat an
 E.M.F. in m can cause no current in n. First exclude ma
 equation from (24rf) altogether, and, with it, Zmm. Then
 write down the equations of E.M.F. in all the independent
 circuits of the remaining branches, by adding together equa
 tions (24d) in the proper order ; this excludes the Vs, and
 leaves us equations between the e's and all the independent
 C's, but one fewer in number than them. Put the Cm terms
 on the left side, then we can solve for all the currents (except
 Cm) in terms of Cm and the e's. That the coefficient of Cm in
 the C„ solution shall vanish is the condition of conjugacy, and
 when this happens, C„ is not merely independent of em
 but also of Zmm, though not of Zra], Zm2, &c.
    I have dwelt somewhat upon this property, and how to
 prove it for transient states, because, although it is easy
 enough to understand how the current in one of the conjugate
 branches, say n, is independent of current arising from causes
in the other conjugate branch, »h, yet it is far less easy to
 understand how, when m is varied in its nature, and therefore
 wholly changes the distribution of current in all the branches
 (except one of the conjugate ones) due to impressed forces in
 them, it does not also change the current in the excepted
 branch n. Conscientious learners always need to work out
the full results in a problem relating to the steady-flow of
current before they can completely satisfy themselves that the
property is true.
   Note on Part III. Example of treatment of terminal con
ditions. Induction- Coil and Condenser — One of the side-
matters left over for separate examination when giving the
main investigation of Parts J. to IV. was the manner of
treatment of terminal conditions when normal solutions are
in question, especially with reference to the finding of the
terms in the complete solution arising from an arbitrary
initial state -which are due to the terminal apparatus, concern
ing which I remarked in Part III. that the matter was best
studied in the concrete application. There is also the ques
tion of finding the nature of the terminal arbitraries from the
mere form of the terminal equation, without knowledge of
the nature of the arrangement in detail, except what can bo
derived from the terminal equation.
   Let, for example, in the figure, the thick line to the right
be the beginning of the telegraph-line, and what is to the
left of it the terminal apparatus, consisting of an induction-
coil and a shunted condenser. The line is joined through the
primary of the induction-coil, of resistance 11,, to the con
denser of capacity S0, whose shunt has the conductance K0,

                      Self-induction of Wires.                         73
and whose further side is connected to earth, as symbolized
by the arrow-head". Let B3 be the resistance of the secondary
coil, and L1( L3, M the inductances, self and mutualj of the
primary and the secondary. At the distant end of the line,
where z=l, we may have another arrangement of apparatus,
also joined through to earth, though this is not necessary.
The line and the two terminal arrangements form the com
plete system, supposed to be independent of all other systems.
   Now suppose there to be no impressed force in any part
of the system, so that its state at a given moment depends
entirely upon its initial state at the time of removal of the
impressed forces ; after which, owing to the existence of
resistance, it must subside to a state of zero electric force and
zero magnetic force everywhere (with some exceptional cases
in which there is ultimately electric force, though not mag
netic force), the manner of the subsidence to the final state
depending upon the connexions of the system. The course
of events at any place depends upon the initial state of every
part, including the terminal apparatus, which may be arbi
trary, since any values may be given to the electrical variables
which serve to fully specify the amount and distribution of
the electric and magnetic energies.
   Suppose that V, the potential difference, and C, the current
in the line, are sufficient to define its state, t. e. as electrical
variables, when the nature of the line is given, and that u
and w are the normal functions of V and C in a normal
system of subsidence. Then, at time t, we have
                  V=2A«€'*,           C = XAwep', .... (le)
  * It is not altogether improbable that the arrangement shown in the
figure, with the receiving instrument placed in the secondary circuit,
would be of advantage. A preliminary examination of the form of the
arrival-curve when this arrange ment is used for receiving at the end of a
long cable, with K0=0, yields a favourable result. But the examination
did not wholly include the influence of the resistances on the lorm of the
curve.

74                   Mr. 0. Heaviside on the
wherein them's are known from the connexions of the whole
system ; each normal system having its own p, and also a
constant A to fix its magnitude. The value of A is thus what
depends upon the initial state, and is to be found by an inte
gration extending over every part of the system. In one
case, viz., when the initial state is what could be set up finally
by any distribution of steadily acting impressed force, we do
not need to perform this complex integration, since we may
obtain what we want by solving the inverse problem of the
setting up of the final state due to the impressed forces, as
done by one method in Part III., and by another in Part IV.
If also the initial state of the apparatus be neutral, so that it
is the state of the line only that determines the subsequent
state, we can pretty easily represent matters, viz., by giving
to A the value
                      AJ>U.-LW.>h                   _         ^
wherein U and W are the initial V and C in the line,
whose capacity and inductance per unit length are S and L;
so that the numerator of A is the excess of the mutual electric
over the mutual magnetic energy of the initial and a normal
state, whilst the denominator A is twice the excess of the
electric over the magnetic energy of the normal state itself,
which quantity may be either expressed in the form of an
integration extending over the whole system, or, more simply,
and without any of the labour this involves, in the form of a
differentiation with respect to p of the determinantal equation.
For instance, when we assume L = 0, and we make the line-
constants to be simply Rand S, its resistance and capacity per
unit length (constants), as we may approximately do in the
case of a submarine cable that is worked sufficiently slowly to
make the effects of inertia insensible, in which case we have
             -S=RC>         -§ =st>        £-=RSt;         •  w
so that we may take
                                       111
            w = sin (mz + 0),   w=—-^cos(mz + 6),.         .  (4e)
if — m>=H.^p; then equation (2e) becomes
                         SffUutfc + Yo + Yx
             A=                         -         -,    .  .  (be)
                  iBl{l-erf«I.^F<«0}
where the undefined terms Y0 and Y, in the numerator depend

                     Self-induction of Wires.                  75
upon the terminal apparatus, and F in the denominator is
defined by
              tenml=™ . ,                 7 =F(mQ, . . (6.)
                        Bp (m/Spf +
which is the determinantal equation arising out of the ter
minal conditions
            V = Z0Cat2 = 0, and V=Zfi at z = l. . . (7e)
[See eqnations (177) to (180), Part IV.] We have now to
add on u> the numerator of A the terms corresponding to the
initial state of the terminal apparatus, when it is not then
neutral. As the process is the same at both ends of the line,
we may confine ourselves to the 2 = 0 apparatus, according to
the figure. First we require the form of Z0, the negative of
the generalized resistance of the terminal apparatus. It con
sists of three parts, one due to the condenser, a second to the
primary coil, and a third to the presence of the secondary ;
thus,
-Z0=(K0 + S0p)-l+(R1 + LlP)-MV/(Rs + LJ?), . (8.)
showing the three parts in the order stated. Now, as shown
in Part III., dZ^dp expresses twice the excess of the electric
over the magnetic energy in a normal system (when p be
comes a constant), per unit square of current. Performing
the differentiation, we have
     dZ0_        S0        T      JWp_ _ _LsMy_
      dp-(K0 + SuPf        1Jl + \l2 + L2p (U2 + Upf '       <W
Here we may at once recognize that the first term represents
twice the electric energy of the condenser per unit square of
 current, that the second term is the negative of twice the mag
netic energy of the unit primary current, and that the fourth
is, similarly, the negative of twice the magnetic energy of the
 secondary current per unit primary current ; whilst the third,
 which at first sight appears anomalous, is the negative of twice
the mutual magnetic energy of the unit primary and corre
 sponding secondary current. Thus, if w0 be the normal cur
rent-function, that is, by (4e), w0= — (w/H) cos 8, we have
as the expressions for the normal potential-difference of the
condenser, for the primary current, and for the secondary cur
 rent. If then V0, C], and C2 are the initial quite arbitrary
 values of the difference of potential of the condenser, of the

76                   Mr. 0. Heaviside on the
primary and the secondary currents, their expansions must be
Also, the excess of the mutual electric over the mutual mag
netic energy of the initial state V0, Cj, C2, and the normal
state represented by (lOe) is
Y°='4kSoP- (L^ + MC>> + (L«°» + MC'>H^ }
and this is what must be added to the numerator in {5e) to
obtain the complete value of A, if we also add the corre
sponding expression Y! for the apparatus at the other end, if
it be not initially neutral. Using this value of A iri (le) and
in (He) with the time-factor       attached, and in the corre
sponding expansions for the other end, we thus by (le) and
(11?) express the state of the whole system at any time.
   Since, initially, V is U, and independent of the state of the
terminal apparatus, it follows that iu the expansion
                            U = 2Am,
the parts of A depending upon the apparatus contribute
nothing to U, so that, by (be) and (12e), we have the iden
tities
0=2AJ"                0=XAtroW, a=2A1^"^-               . (13.)
        i\0-tis0p                         1\.2 + Xj2p
for all the values of z from 0 to I.
   It may have been observed in the above that the use of (9e)
was quite unnecessary, owing to the forms of the normal
functions in (10*) being independently obtainable from our
a-priori knowledge of the terminal apparatus in detail, from
which knowledge the form of Z0 in (8e) was deduced; so
that, without using (9*),, we could form (lie) and (12?). I
have, however, introduced (9e) in order to illustrate how we
can find the complete solution, without knowing the detailed
terminal connexions, from a given form of Z. AVe must
 either decompose d2,Jdp into the sum of squares of admissible
 functions of p, multiplied by constants, sayr
               ^|0=«1/i2 + «2/22 + a3/32 + ...,     . .  . (14.)
where au a2, &c. are the constants, and fi,/% the functions
of p ; or else into the form of the sum of squares and pro
 ducts, thus
    ~° = alfii + a2f2t + aif^ + blflf2 + b2f,fi +          (15*)

                      Self-induction of Wires.                 77
When this is done, we know that the terminal arbitraries aro
         F^XkfM, Fa=2A/>0, F3 = 2A/>0, . . (16e)
and that
            Yo=w0{alF1fl + aiFif2 + a3F3f3 + . . .} . . (17*)
in the case (14<>) of sums of square?, wherein the F's may
have any values, assuming that, we have satisfied ourselves
that they are all independent ; with the identities
                 0 = 2A/>, 0 = 2A/S7i, &c.         ... (18«)
    Thus, in the case (9e), the first, second, and fourth terms
are of the proper form for reduction to           but the third is
not. We are certain, therefore, that there cannot be more
than three arbitraries, if there be so many. Now, if we do
not recognize the connexion between the third term and those
which precede and follow it (as may easily happen in some
other case), we should rearrange the terms to bring it to the
form (14*) ; for instance, thus :—
          dZ0_       So         /     M'\      M'%7L,
          dp-(K0+SoPy \^ hj (R2 + LiP)»
 which is what we require. We may then take
fi=(K0 + SoP)-\          /.-l,     /a=(R2 + LsP)-1|
 o^So, ^-(L.-JPL,),                a3=-M2R27L2 /' *          V   '
 Further, we can certainly conclude, provided a, is positive,
 and cfj and a3 are negative, that the first term on the right
 of (19e) stands for electric (or potential) energy, and the
 remainder for magnetic (or kinetic). It is clear that we may
 assume any form of Z that we please of an admissible kind
 (e. g., there must be no such thing as p*), find the arbitraries,
 and fully solve the problem that our data represent, whether
 it be or be not capable of a real physical interpretation on
 electrical principles. I have pursued this subject in some
 detail for the sake of verifications ; it is an enormous and
 endless subject, admitting of infinite development. Owing,
 however, to the abstractly mathematical nature of the investi
  gations—to say nothing, of the length to which they expand,
  although when carried on upon electrical principles they are
 much simplified, and made to have meaning—I merely propose
 to give later one or two examples in which circular functions
 of p are taken to represent Z.
    Although, however, the state of the line at any moment is
  fully determinable for any form of the terminal Z's, when they
 alone are given, from the initial state of the line, provided the

78                   Mr. 0. Heaviside on tlie
initial values of the terminal arbitraries be taken to be zero,
and although it is similarly determinable when particular
values are given to the arbitraries, whose later values also are
determinable by affixing the time-factor, it does not appear
that this determinateness of the later values of the terminal
arbitraries is always of a complete character, when the sole
data relating to them are the form of Z and their initial values.
For it is possible for a terminal arrangement to have a certain
portion conjugate with respect to the line ; and although the
state of the line will not be affected by initial energy in that
portion, yet it will influence the later values of the other
terminal arbitraries. This might wholly escape notice in an
investigation founded upon a given form of Z with undetailed
connexions, owing to the disappearance from Z of terms
depending upon the conjugate portion. In such a case the
reduced form of Z cannot give us the least information con
cerning the influence of the portion conjugate to the line. It
is as if it were non-existent. If, however, Z be made more
general, so as to contain terms depending upon the conjugate
portion, although they be capable of immediate elimination
from Z, it would seem that the indeterminateness must be
removed.
   Some JYotes on Part IV. Looped metallic circuits. Inter
ferences due to Inequalities, and consequent limitutions of appli
cation.— It is scarcely necessary to remark that, in the inves
tigation of Parts I. and II., the choice ot a round wire or tube
surrounded by a concentric tube for return conductor was
practically necessitated in order to allow of the use of the
well-known J0 and Jx functions and their complements,
because it was not merely the total current in the wire with
which we were concerned, but also with its distribution.
Next, in order that it should be a question of self-induction,
and not one of mutual induction also, with fearful com
plications, it was necessary to impose the condition that the
wire, tubular dielectric, and outer tube should be a self-
contained system, making the magnetic force zero at the
outer boundary. It is true that no external inductive effect
is observable when the double-tube circuit is of moderate
length. But electrostatic induction is cumulative ; and it is
certain that, by sufficiently lengthening the double tube, we
should ultimately obtain observable inductive interferences.
Our investigation, then, only strictly applies when the double
tube is surrounded on all sides, to an infinite distance, by
a medium of infinite elastivity and resistivity.
    [Maxwell termed 4tt/c, when c is the dielectric constant,
the electric elasticity. I make this the elastivity: first, to

                      Self-induction of Wires.                   70
have one word for two ; next, to avoid confusion with
mechanical elasticity ; and thirdly, to harmonize with the
nomenclature I have used for some time past. Thus :—
            Flux.                                            Force.
  n ,           r,     . f Resistivity.    Resistance. } j-,, , .
  Oonduction-Uurrent. < f, ,               r, , .         > Electric.
                          {_ Conductivity. Conductance. J
  Induction .... Inductivity. Inductance.                   Magnetic.
  D- i           ,        f Elastivitv.    Elastance.     ) tpi , •
    isplacement
      r                      u
                     . . <( rernuttivity.  Permittance. J> Electric.
                                           r>
   The elastance of a condenser is the reciprocal of its capacity,
and elastivity is the elastance per unit volume, as resistivity
is the resistance per unit volume, and conductivity the con
ductance per unit volume. As for " permittivity " and " per
mittance," there are not wanting reasons for their use instead
of *' specific inductive capacity " (electric), and " electrostatic
 capacity." The word capacity alone is too general ; it must
be capacity for something, as electrostatic capacity. It is an
essential part of my scheme to always use single and unmis
takable words, because people will abbreviate. Again, capa
 city is an unadaptable word, and is altogetber out of harmony
with the rest of the scheme. Now the flux concerned is the
 electric displacement, involving elastic resistance to yielding
 from one point of view, and a capacity for permitting the
 yielding from the inverse; h^noe elastance and permittance,
 the latter being the electrostatic capacity of a condenser.
 There are now only two gaps left, viz. for the reciprocals of
 inductivity and inductance. " Resistance to lines of force "
 and " magnetic resistance " will obviously not do for per
 manent use.]
    If this restriction be removed, we have self- and mutual
 induction concerned, and interferences ; or, even if there be
 no external conductors, we have still the electric current of
 elastic displacement, and with it electric and magnetic energy
 outside the double tube. 15ut, ignoring these, we have the
 following striking peculiarities :— Putting on one side the
 question of the propagation of disturbances into the conductors,
 which is so interesting a one in itself, we find that the elec
 trical constants are three in number—the resistance, capacity,
 and inductance of the double-tube per unit of its length ;
 whilst the electrical variables are two—the current in each
 conductor, and their difference of potential. The effective
 resistance per unit length is the sum of their resistances,
 which may be divided between the two conductors in any
 ratio ; the capacity is that of the dielectric between them ;

 80                   Mr. 0. Heaviside on the
and the inductance is the sain of that of the dielectric, inner,
and outer conductors. Another remarkable peculiarity is,
that equal impressed forces, similarly directed in the two con
ductors at corresponding places, can do nothing ; from which
it follows that the effective impressed force may, like the
effective resistance, be divided between the conductors in any
proportion we please.
    In Fart IV., having in view the rapidly extending use of
metallic circuits of double wires looped, excluding the earth,
consequent upon the development of telephonic communi
cation in a manner to eliminate inductive interferences, I
extended the above-described method to a looped circuit con
sisting of a pair of parallel wires. So far as propagation
into the wires is concerned, it is merely necessary that they
should not be too close to one another to allow of the appli
cation of the J0 and J\ functions to them separately. Now-
suspended wires are usually of iron, and are not set too close,
so that the application is justified. On the other hand, buried
twin wires, though very near one another, are of copper, and
also considerably smaller than the iron suspended wires; so
that the diffusion effect, though not so well representable
by the above-named function*, is made insignificant. Dis
missing, as before, this question of inward propagation, we
have, just as in the tubular case, two electrical variables and
three constants, viz. the potential difference of the wires, the
current in each, and the effective resistance, capacity, and
inductance.
    First of all, let the wires he alone in an infinite dielectric.
Then we have similar results to these concerning the double-
tube. The effective resistance, which is the sum of the
resistances of the wires, may be divided between them in any
proportions ; and so may be the effective impressed force.
 The effective capacity is that of the condenser, consisting of
the dielectric bounded by the two wires, the surface of one
being the positive, and that of the other the negative coating.
 Or, in another form, the effective capacity is the reciprocal of
 the elastance from one wire to the other. In the standard
medium, this elastance is, in electrostatic units, the same as
the inductance, of the dielectric, in electromagnetic units.
Thus,
                          L0=2Mlog^L,                         (1/)
if rj and rt be the radii of the wires, and r„ their distance
apart (between axes), and /* the inductivity of the dielectric.

                       Self-induction of Wires.                       81
                        S=cf21og^-)                                (2/)
   Their product, when in the same units, is v~*} the reciprocal
of the square of the speed of undissipated waves through the
dielectric. The two variables, potential difference and cur
rent, fully define the state of the wires, except as regards the
diffusion effect in them, of coarse, and an effect due to outward
propagation into the unbounded dielectric from the seat of
impressed force, which is made insignificant by the limitation
of the magnetic field (in sensible intensity) due to the nearness
of the wires as compared with their length. To L0 has to be
added a variable quantity, whose greatest value is              + £ fa,
if ftx and fa are the inductivities of the wires, to obtain the
complete inductance per unit length.
    So far, then, there is a perfect correspondence between the
double-tube and the double-wire problem. But when we pro
ceed to make allowance for the presence of neighbouring con
ductors, as, for instance, the earth, although there is a formal
resemblance between the results in the two cases, when the
proper values are given to the constants concerned, yet the fact
that in one case the outer conductor encloses the inner, whilst in
the other this is not so, causes practical differences to exist.
For example, there are two constants of capacity concerned
in the concentric tube case, that of the dielectric between
them, and that of the dielectric outside the outer tube. But
in the case of looped wires there are three, which may be
chosen to be the capacity of each wire with respect to earth
including the other wire, and a coefficient of mutual capacity.
There are, similarly, three constants of inductance, and two of
resistance, and at least two of leakage, viz. from each wire to
earth, with a possible third direct from wire to wire. This is
when the wires are treated in a quite general matter, and
arbitrarily operated upon ; so that there must be four elec
trical variables, viz. two currents and two potential-differences.
 I have somewhat developed this matter in my paper " On
 Induction between Parallel Wires"*; and as regards the
 values of the constants of capacity concerned, in my paper
 " On the Electrostatic Capacity of Suspended Wires f. As
 may be expected, the solutions tend to become very complex,
 except in certain simple cases. If, then, we can abolish this
 complexity, and treat the double wire as if it were a single
 one, having special electrical constants, we make a very im
portant improvement. I have at present to point out certain
   * Journal S. T. E. and E., vol. ix. p. 427. f Ibid. vol. ix. p. 115.
Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 24. No. 146. July 1887.                    G

 82                    Mr. 0. Heaviside on the
 peculiarities connected with the looped-wire problem in ad
 dition to those described in Part IV., and to make the neces
 sary limitations of application of the method and the results
 which are required by the presence of the earth.
    First of all, even though the wires be not connected to
 earth, if they be charged and currented in the most arbitrary
 manner possible, we must employ the four electrical variables
 and the ten or eleven electrical constants as above mentioned.
 On the other hand, going back to the looped wires far removed
 from other conductors, there are but two electrical variables
 and four constants (counting one for leakage). Now bring
 these parallel wires to a distance above the earth which is a
 large multiple of thoir distance apart. The constant S of
 capacity is a little increased. The method of images gives
                         S^2 log 11*4)"';             •   •   •  •    W
where ru r2 are the radii of the wires, r13 their distance apart,
su s2 their distances from their images, and s12 the distance
from either to the image of the other ; but, owing to «i«2/«?a
being nearly unity, the capacity S does not sensibly differ
from the value in an infinite dielectric, or the earth has scarcely
anything to do with the matter*. If, however, the wires be
brought close to the earth, the increase of capacity will become
considerable ; this is also the case when the wires are buried.
 The extreme is reached when each wire is surrounded by
 dielectric to a certain distance, and the space between and
 surrounding the two dielectrics is wholly filled up with
 well-conducting matter. Then the capacity S becomes the
reciprocal of the sum of the capacities of the two wires with
respect to the enveloping conductive matter; in another form,
the effective elastance is the sum of the olastances of the two
dielectrics. Returning to the suspended wires, if the earth
wore infinitely conducting, the effective inductance would be
the reciprocal of S in (3f) with p written for c, in electromag
netic units, with i(/ii + /i2) added ; whilst, allowing for the
full extension of the magnetic field into the earth, we should
   * On the other hand, Mr. W. H. Preece, F.R.S., assures us that the
capacity is halved (Proc. Itoy. Soc. March 3, 1887, and Journal S. T. E.
and E., June 27 and Fehr. 10, 1887). This is simple, but inaccurate.
It is, however, a mere trifle in comparison with Mr. Preece's other errors;
he does not fairly appreciate the theory of the transmission of signals,
even keeping to the quite special case of a long and slowly worked sub
marine cable, whose theory, or what he imagines it to be, he applies, in
the most confident manner possible, universally ! There is hardly any
resemblance between the manner of transmission of currents of great fre
quency and slow signals.

                        Self-induction of Wires.                   83
have the formula (1/), giving a slightly greater value. The
effective resistance is of course the sum of the resistances, and
the effective leakage resistance would be the sum of the leak
age resistances of the two wires with respect to earth, if that
were the only way of getting leakage between the wires, but
it must be modified in its measure by leakage being mostly
from wire to wire over the insulators, arms, and only a part
of fhe poles.
    But, if there be any inequalities between the wires, diffe
rential effects will result, due to the presence of the earth, in
spite of its little influence on the value of the effective capacity;
whereby the current in one wire is made to be not of the same
strength as in the other, and the charge on one wire not to
be the negative of that on the other. The propagation of
signals from end to end of the looped-circuit will not then
take place exactly in the same manner as in a single wire.
 To allow for this, we may either bring in the full comprehen
 sive system of electrical constants and variables ; or, perhaps
 better, exhibit the differential effects separately by taking for
 variables the sum of the potentials of the wires (taking earth
 at zero potential) and half the difference of the strength of
 current in them, in addition to the difference of potential of
 the wires and half the sum of the current strengths, which
 last are the sole variables when the wires are in an infinite
 dielectric, or, else, are quite equal. By adopting the latter
 course our solutions will consist of two parts, one expressing
 very nearly the same results as if the differential effects did
  not exist, the other the differential effects by themselves.
    Another result of inequalities is to produce inductive inter
 ferences from parallel wires which would not exist were the
 wires equal. As an example, let an iron and a parallel copper
 wire be looped, and telephones be placed at the ends of the
 circuit. Even if the wires be well twisted, there is current
 in the telephones caused by rapid reversals in a parallel wire
 whose circuit is completed through the earth. Again, if two
  precisely equal wires be twisted, and telephones placed at the
 ends as before, the insertion of a resistance into either wire
 intermediately will upset the induction-balance and cause
 current in the terminal telephones when exposed to interfe
 rence from a parallel wire. This interference can be removed
  by the insertion of an equal resistance in the companion-wire
 at the same place. In the working of telephone metallic cir
  cuits with intermediate stations and apparatus, we not only
  introduce great impedance by the insertion of the interme
  diate apparatus, thus greatly shortening the length of line
 that can be worked through, but we produce inductive inter
                                  G 2

84               On the Self-induction of Wires.
ferences from parallel wires, unless the intermediate apparatus
be double, one part being in circuit with one wire, the other
part (quite similar) in circuit with the other. In mentioning
my brother's system of bridge-working of telephones in
Part V., whereby the intermediate impedance is wholly re
moved, I mentioned, without explanation, the cancelling of
inductive interferences. The present and preceding para
graphs supply the needed explanation of that remark. The
intermediate apparatus, being in bridges across from one wire
to the other, does not in the least disturb the induction-
balance, so that transmission of speech is not interfered with
by foreign sounds.
   But theory goes much further than the above in predicting
interferences than practice up to the present time verifies.
For instance, if two perfectly equal wires be suspended at the
same height above the ground and be looped at the ends, ter
minal telephones will not be interfered with by variations of
current in a parallel wire equidistant from both wires of the
loop-circuit, having its own circuit completed through the
earth. But if the loop-circuit be in a vertical plane, so that
one wire is at a greater height above the ground than the
other, there must be terminal disturbance produced, even
when the disturbing wire is equidistant. Similarly in the
many other cases of inequality that can be mentioned.
   The two matters, preservation of the induction-balance, and
transmission of signals in the same manner as on a single
wire, are intimately connected. If we have one, we also have
the other. The limitations of application of the method of
Part IV. may be summed up in saying that the loop-circuit
must either be far removed from all conductors, in which case
equivalence of the wires is quite needless ; or else they must
be equal in their electrical constants. In the latter case the
effective resistance R is the double of that of either wire, and
the effective capacity, inductance, and leakage are to be
measured as before described, whilst the variables are the
potential-difference of the wires and the current in each. But
the four electrical constants may vary in any (not too rapid)
manner along the line. And the impressed force (in the
investigations of Part IV.) may also be an arbitrary function
of the distance, provided it be put, half in one wire, half in the
other, oppositely directed in space. For, although equal,
similarly directed impressed forces will cause no terminal
disturbance (and none anywhere if other conductors be suffi
ciently distant), yet disturbances at intermediate parts of the
lino will result. It is true that the most practical case of
impressed force is when it is situated at one end only of the

  Method of Measuring the Mutual Induction of two Coils.           85
circuit, when it is of course equally in both wires, or not in
them at all ; but there is such a great gain in the theoretical
treatment of these problems by generalizing, that it is worth
while to point out the above restriction.
   Besides this case of equality of wires, which is precisely the
one that obtains in practice, there are other cases in which, by
proper proportioning of the electrical constants of the two
looped wires, the induction-balance is preserved ; and, simul
taneously, we obtain transmission of signals as on a single wire.
Their investigation is a matter of scientific interest, though
scarcely of practical importance.
   I have yet to add investigations by the method of waves
(mentioned in Part IV.), by which method I have reached
interesting results in a simple manner.
 VII. Note on Prof. Carey Foster's Method of Measuring the
   Mutual Induction of two Coils. By James Swinburne*.
PROF. FOSTER suggests at the end of his paper f that
       his method may be of use in dynamo work. Wishing
to get some arrangement for testing the induction through
any part of a dynamo, and for testing samples of iron for
Messrs. Crompton and Co., the writer devised an arrangement
which dispenses with the objectionable ballistic galvanometer.
It was tried roughly last summer, with the view of making a
permanent arrangement if the method worked well.
   The primary current was led through an electromagnet, A,
which represented the dynamo, and through one wire of a
double-wound coil, 13, which represented a pair of coils of
known mutual induction. This coil was shunted by a wire, E,
  * Communicated by the Physical Society : read February 26, 1887.
  t Phil. Mag. [5] vol. xxiii. p. 121 (February 1887).

86     Method of Measuring the Mutual Induction of two Coils.
with sliding contacts. This circuit was made or broken by
the switch C. A pilot wire, D, round the model electro
magnet was connected in series with the secondary coil of B
and with the ordinary reflecting-galvanometer, G. The
arrangement was fairly sensitive ; but had one fault, which
was in fact foreseen. Instead of no current, the galvanometer
gets a current first one way and then the other, so that the
spot, jerks each way. This might be remedied by another
arrangement of the wires; but a similar difficulty will arise in
dynamo work. The flux of the induction through the standard
coil varies as the flux of the primary current ; but the flux of
the induction through, say, a section of a field-magnet depends
on the saturation of the iron. To avoid these difficulties, a
galvanometer with a heavy ballistic astatic needle of the kind
introduced by Ayrton and Perry will be used. This has been
made by Mr. Dobson, lately one of Messrs. Crompton's pupils.
It is of somewhat novel design. The coils, of which there are
several sets, can be changed without dismounting the needle,
so that the instrument can be used as a high or low resistance
or differential galvanometer ; and can be also used as a bal
listic, or as a flywheel or integrating galvanometer. If
necessary, little arms with balls like those of a minute fly-
press will be added. The final apparatus was not put in hand
till quite lately, as there was no suitable room available for
such work ; but it is now being made.
    It was intended to calibrate the induction-coils from coils
whose mutual induction could be calculated ; or from a dy
namo by measuring the induction through the armature with
a known exciting current, and then running the dynamo and
measuring its electromotive force and speed. This method
has, by the way, been recently mentioned by M. Kapp, for
calibrating a ballistic galvanometer. Prof. Foster's method
seems infinitely more convenient, and may save much trouble
if a good condenser is to be had. Of course an ammeter will
be in the primary circuit.
    It would seem that a flywheel-galvanometer might be used
for such purposes as finding the ohm from a pair of coils with
calculated mutual induction. Suppose, for instance, a contact-
breaker makes and breaks contact in the primary circuit with
a known frequency, and allows the impulses one way in the
secondary coil to go round one coil of a differentially-wound
flywheel-galvanometer. A constant current in the other coil
is regulated to oppose these impulses ; and from these the
ohm might be got. Either the contacts must be made slowly
enough for the current in the primary to come to its perma
nent value, or a correction must be made for the error. There

                  Cause of Iridescence in Cloud*.                  87
is also a small error due to capacity. This suggestion is made
with hesitation, as it seems probable that somebody must have
thought of the arrangement or tried it. It is infinitely easier
to think of a novelty, or an apparent novelty, than to find out
whether it is really new. For instance, on looking the matter
up a little for this note, the writer found that the null method
of comparing the coefficients of mutual induction of coils is
mentioned in a footnote to Brillouin's elaborate memoir on
the comparison of coefficients of induction. Maxwell also
mentions a loaded differential galvanometer for comparing
frequent condenser-discharges with a known current. Roi'ti's
method is also given in Mascart and Joubert's book.
VIII. On the Cause of Iridescence in Clouds. By G. Johnstone
    Stonet, M.A., JD.Sc, F.R.S.; a Vice-President, R.D.S.*
WHEN the sky is occupied by light cirro-cumulus cloud,
          an optical phenomenon of the most delicate beauty
sometimes presents itself, in which the borders of the clouds
and their lighter portions are suffused with soft shades of
colour like those of mother-of-pearl, among which lovely pinks
and greens are the most conspicuous. Usually these colours
are distributed in irregular patches, just as in mother-of-pearl;
but occasionally they are seen to form round the denser
patches of cloud a regular coloured fringe, in which the
several tints are arranged in stripes following the sinuosities
of the outline of the cloud.
    I cannot find in any of the books an explanation of this
beautiful spectacle, all the more pleasing because it generally
presents itself in delightful summer weather. It is not men
tioned in the part of Moigno's great Repertoire a" Optique
which treats of meteorological optics, nor in any other work
which I have consulted. It seems desirable, therefore, to
make an attempt to search out what appears to be its expla
nation.
    At the elevation in our atmosphere at which these delicate
clouds are formed the temperature is too low, even in mid
summer, for water to exist in the liquid state ; and, accord
ingly, the attenuated vapour from which they were condensed
passed at once into a solid form. They consist, in fact, of
tinv crystals of ice, not of little drops of water. If the preci
pitation has been hasty, the crystals will, though all small, be
 of many sizes jumbled together, and in that case the beautiful
   • Reprinted, by permission, from the Scientific Transactions of the
Royal Dublin Society of the lt!th February and 23rd March, 1887.

 88               Dr. G. J. Stoney on the Cause
 optical phenomenon with which we are now dealing will not
 occur. But if the opposite conditions prevail (which they do
 on rare occasions), if the vapour had been evenly distributed,,
 and if the precipitation took place slowly, then will the crys
 tals in any one neighbourhood be little ice-crystals of nearly
 the same form and size, and from one neighbourhood to
  another they will differ chiefly in number and size, owing to
 the process having gone on longer or taken place somewhat
  faster, or through a greater depth, in some neighbourhoods
 than others. This will give rise to the patched appearance of
 the clouds which prevails when this phenomenon presents
  itself. It also causes the tiny crystals, of which the cloud
 consists, to grow larger in some places than others.
     Captain Scoresby, in his ' Account of the Arctic Regions,'
 gives the best description of snow-crystals formed at low tem
 peratures with which I am acquainted. From his observations
 it appears—(a) that when formed at temperatures several
 degrees below the freezing-point, the crystals, whether simple
 or compound, are nearly all of symmetrical forms ; (6) that
 thin tabular crystals are extremely numerous, consisting either
 of simple transverse slices of the fundamental hexagon, or,
 more frequently, of aggregations of these attached edgewise
and lying in one plane ; and (c) that, according as atmo
 spheric conditions vary, one form of crystal or another largely
 preponderates. A fuller account of these most significant
 observations is given in the Appendix to this paper.
    Let us then consider the crystals in any one neighbourhood
in the sky, where the conditions that prevail are such as to
produce lamellar crystals of nearly the same thiekness. The
tabular plates are subsiding through the atmosphere—in fact
falling towards the earth. And although thoir descent is very
slow, owing to their minute size, the resistance of the air will
act upon them as it does upon a falling feather ; it will cause
them, if disturbed, to oscillate before they settle into that
horizontal position which flat plates finally assume when fall
ing through quiescent air. We shall presently consider what
the conditions must be, in order that the crystals may be liable
to be now and then disturbed from the horizontal position.
If this occasionally happens, the crystals will keep fluttering,
and at any one moment some of them will be turned so as to
reflect a ray from the sun to the eye of the observer from the
fiat surface of the crj-stal which is next him. Now, if the
conditions are such as to produce crystals which are plates
with parallel faces, and as they are also transparent, part only
of the sun's ray that reaches the front face of the crystal will
be reflected from it : the rest will enter the crystal, and, falling

                       of Iridescence in Clouds.                80
on the parallel surface behind, a portion will be there reflected,
and, passing out through the front face, will also reach the
eye of the observer. These two portions of the ray—that
reflected from the front face and that reflected from the back
—are precisely in the condition in which they can interfere
with one another, so as to produce the splendid colours with
which we are familiar in soap-bubbles. If the crystals are of
diverse thicknesses the colours from the individual crystals
 will be different, and the mixture of them all will produce
 merely white light ; but if all are nearly of the same thick
 ness, they will transmit the same colour towards the observer,
 who will accordingly see this colour in the part of the cloud
 occupied by these crystals. The colour will, of course, not
 be undiluted ; for other crystals will send forward white light,
 and this, blended with the coloured light, will produce delicate
 shades in cases where the corresponding colours of a soap-
 bubble would be vivid.
    We have now only to explain how it happens that on very
rare occasions the colours, instead of lying in irregular patches,
form definite fringes round the borders of the cloudlets. The
circumstances that give rise to this special form of the phe
nomenon appear to be the following :—While the cloud is in
the process of growth (that is, so long as the precipitation of
vapour into the crystalline state continues to take place) so
long will the crystals keep augmenting. If, then, a cloudlet
is in the process of formation, not only by the springing up of
fresh crystals around, but also by the continued growth of the
crystals within it, then will that patch of cloud consist of
crystals which are largest in its central part, and gradually
smaller as their situation approaches the outside. Here, then,
are conditions which will produce one colour round the margin
of the cloud, and that colour mixed with others, and so giving
rise to other tints, further in. In this way there comes into
existence that iris-like border which is now and then seen.
    The occasional upsetting of the crystals, which is required
to keep them fluttering, may be produced in any of three
ways. The cloudlets may have been formed from the blending
together of two layers of air saturated at different temperatures,
and moving with different velocities or in different directions.
Where these currents intermix a certain amount of disturbance
will prevail, which, if sufficiently slight, would not much
interfere with the regularity of the crystals, and might yet be
sufficient to occasion little draughts, which would blow them
about when formed. Or, if the colder layer is above, and if
it is in a sufficient degree colder, there need not be any pre
vious relative motion of the two layers ; the inevitable con

  90               Dr. G. J. Stoney on the Came
 vection-currents will suffice. Another, and probably the most
  frequent, cause for little breezes in the neighbourhood of the
  cloudlets is, that when the cloudlets are formed they imme
  diately absorb the heat of the sun in a way that the previously
 clear air had not done. If they absorb enough they will rise
 like feeble balloons, and slight return currents will travel
 downwards round their margins, throwing all crystals in that
 situation into disorder.
     I do not include among the causes which may agitate the
 crystals another cause which must produce excessively slight
 currents of air, namely that arising from the subsidence of the
 cloudlets owing to their weight. The crystals will fall faster
 where in cloxid masses than in the intervening portions where
 the cloud is thinner. But the subsidence itself is so slow,
 that any relative motions to which differences in the rate of
 subsidence can give rise are probably too feeble to produce an
 appreciable effect. Of course, in general, more than one of
 the above courses will concur; and it is the resultant of the
 effects which they would have separately produced that will
 be felt by the crystals.
    If the precipitation had taken place so very evenly over the
sky that there were no cloudlets formed, but only one uniform
veil of haze, then the currents which would flutter the crystals
may be so entirely absent that the little plates of crystals can
fixedly assume the horizontal position which is natural to
them. In this event the cloud will exhibit no iridescence,
but, instead of it, a vertical circle through the sun will present
itself. This on some rare occasions is a feature of the phe
nomenon of parhelia.
    It thus appears that the occasional iridescence of cirrus
clouds is satisfactorily accounted for by the concurrence of
conditions, each of which is known to have a real existence in
Nature. We may, in fact, recapitulate our knowledge on the
subject as follows :—Captain Scoresby's observations show
that the crystals of ice formed in the atmosphere do not ag
glutinate into snow-flakes, except at temperatures bordering
on the freezing-point. At temperatures even a few degrees
lower, the crystals remain distinct from one another, and at
low temperatures are for the most partunmutilated and perfect
geometrical figures. He has also shown that all the forms
which crystals of ice can assume do not present themselves
together ; but that some one or two forms generally prepon
derate over the others, the preponderating form varying
according to atmospheric conditions, which he does not seem
to have fully traced out. Thin tabular crystals are frequently
the preponderating form, and become more delicate and thin

                      of Iridescence in Clouds.                  91
and diminish in size as the cold increases. Hence it is to be
presumed that the state of the atmosphere in the region of the
cirrus clouds will sometimes be such as to produce crystalline
plates of a tolerably uniform thickness. When the atmosphere
has been in this state at the formation of the cloud, we shall
accordingly have either the phenomenon of iridescence, or the
twin phenomenon of a vertical column of reflected light pass
ing throughthe sun. This latter phenomenon will present itself
but seldom, as it requires unusual quietude in the region of
the cloud to allow the crystals to settle down sufficiently into
the horizontal position. And, accordingly, on the rare occa
sions when the vertical column is seen, the cloud has been
observed to present a gauze-like uniformity of appearance,
which is an independent evidence of the calmness which is
essenti.il. But it much more frequently happens that the
cloud is flocculent in its structure, and exposed to little breezes
blowing in various directions, excited by one or more of the
causes that have been indicated above. Whenever draughts
of this kind intervene, the little tabular crystals are every now
and then tossed about, and will then flutter ; since being flat
plates, subsiding through a resisting fluid, they will oscillate
after each such disturbance in their progress towards the
horizontal position. Whenever these events happen, we have
conditions which must result in that iridescent phenomenon
which is the subject of our inquiry.
   [Addition, made June 1887.—When the fluttering of the
lamellar crystals which form an iridescent cloud is gentle, the
crystals will not incline much from the horizontal position ;
and as this is the case which most frequently occurs, it is
desirable fully to consider the consequences of it. With
clouds of this kind the iridescent colours will be seen only
when the sun is low in the sky, and only in parts of the cloud
that are at no great distance from him. In more distant
clouds when the sun is low, and in all the clouds when the
sun is high in the sky, the flat surfaces of the crystals do not
become sufficiently inclined to reflect the sun's rays to the
spectator, and accordingly all the light which reaches the eye
from clouds that are so situated has been reflected by edges
of crystals ; or scattered in irregular ways, and is mere white
light. This is the case that is oftenest seen : only a few
clouds near the setting or rising sun exhibit their soft iri
descence. But some few times in one's life the display may
be seen in all quarters of the sky, and with the sun well up in
the heavens ; and the phenomenon is then one of the most
enchanting presented to us by nature. This exquisite spec

  92                 Dr. G. J. Stoney on the Cause
 tacle can only reveal itself on those rare occasions on which
 the crystals are tossed about in an unusual degree.]
                                   Appendix.
      Extracts from Captain Scoresby's record of his Observa
 tions on Snow Crystals formed at Low Temperatures, in his
  ' Account of the Arctic Regions,' vol. i., from pages 425 to
 433, and plates 8, 9, 10, and 11 in vol. ii. :—
     " When the temperature of the air is within a degree or two of the
 freezing-point, and much Bnow falls, it frequently consists of large irre
 gular flakes, such as are common in Britain." " But in severe frosts,
 though the sky appears perfectly clear, lamellar flakes of snow, of the
 most regular and beautiful forms, are always seen floating in the air and
 sparkling in the sunbeams, and the snow which falls, in general, is of the
 most elegant texture and appearance." "The various modifications of
 crystals may be classed under five general kinds or genera :—1. Lamellar.
 2. A lamellar, or spherical nucleus, with spinous ramifications in different
 planes. 3. Fine spiculne, or six-sided prisms. 4. Hexagonal pyramids.
 6. Spiculas, having one or both extremities affixed to the centre of a
 lamellar crystal."
     We are more particularly concerned with the first and the
last of these genera. About the first, Captain Scoresby says :—
    " 1. Lamellar Crystals.—The varieties of this kind are almost infinite.
They occur at all temperatures, and in the greatest abundance, and most
of the specimens are extremely thin, transparent, and of an exquisitely
delicate structure. They may be subdivided into several distinct species :—
    (a) Stelliform ; having six points radiating from a centre, with parallel
          collateral ramifications in the same plane. This species is the
           most general form met with.-' " It occurs in greatest profusion
           when the temperature approaches the freezing-point.
    (6) Regular hexagon. This occurs in moderate, as well as in the lowest
           temperature ; but it becomes more delicate and thin, and dimi
           nishes in size as the cold increases. Some specimens consist of
           simple transparent plates, others are beautifully variegated within
           the perimeter by wnite lines, forming smaller hexagons or other
           regular figures in immense variety."
    (c) " Aggregations of hexagons. This beautiful species admits of im
           mense variety. It occurs chiefly at low temperatures."
    (d) " Combinations of hexagons, with radii or spines and projecting
           angles. This constitutes the most extensive species in the
           arrangement."
     About the last, or fifth, genus, Captain Scoresby says :—
    " 5. SpicuUe or prisms having one or both extremities inserted in the centre
of a Lamellar Crystal.—This is the most singular genus I have ever seen,
and has been observed but twice. It resembles a pair of wheels, united
by an axle-tree ; the wheels consisting of hexagonal or other lamellar
crystals, and the axle of a slender crystal." " Some of this extraordinary

                        of Iridescence in Clouds.                     93
figure occurred along with the last-de9cribed genus [Hexagonal pyramids].
Of which kinds, principally, a quantity of snow, three or four inches in
depth, once fell on the deck of the ship in which I sailed, in the course
of a few hours. The temperature when this kind of crystal fell was in
one instance 22°, and in the other 20° " [Fahrenheit].
    In four engraved plates Captain Scoresby delineates ninety-
six different forms, magnified from three to seven times. And
he attaches a letter to most of them referring to an annexed
table, in which the state of the atmosphere and weather, when
each form was observed, stand recorded. In what he further
adds to his record, he says :—
   " Many instances, it may be observed, occur of mutilated and irregular
specimens, some wanting two or three radii, and others having radii of
different shapes. But in low temperatures the greatest proportion of
crystals that fall are probably perfect geometrical figures."
    The foregoing are the parts of Captain Scoresby's record
of his invaluable observations upon ice-crystals, which more
 particularly throw light on the cause why cirrus clouds are
 occasionally iridescent ; but the rest of the account of this
 accurate observer, and the admirable drawings which he made
 of the crystals, will also well repay careful study. Thus, if the
 cloud consist of crystals of Scoresby's fifth genus, or if crystals
 of the first and third genera are both present, and if the air is so
 calm that the crystals can remain in the terminal position into
 which they would come in falling through still air, then we
 shall have the phenomenon of both a horizontal and a vertical
 circle through the sun making across ; whereas, if the crystals
  are of the first genus only, the vertical circle will present itself
 without the horizontal. I have myself seen the phenomenon
 in this latter form. Crystals of either the first or the fifth
  genus, if occasionally agitated so that they will keep fluttering,
 would give rise to iridescence if of sufficiently uniform thick
 ness.
     Captain Scoresby describes lamellar flakes of snow floating
  in the air and sparkling in the sunbeams, as always present
  daring severe frosts, when the sky is clear. The beautiful
 appearance they would have is a familiar one in chemical
 laboratories, when a glass vessel, in which precipitated tabular
 crystals are subsiding through the mother-liquid, is placed in
 the direct light of the sun. The whole liquid then seems
 alive with minute specks flashing with the brilliant colours of
 thin plates.

                             [  94    ]
 IX. On a Magnetic Potentiometer. By A. P. Chattock *.
IN arranging some experiments on the magnetic resistances
      (so-called) of certain air and iron fields with a view to
the more satisfactory- designing of dynamos, I have been led,
by the familiar analogy between magnetic and electrical cir
cuits, to adopt the following method of measurement; which
I venture to describe, partly on account of its convenience,
partly because the measurement of magnetic resistances seems
likely to play an important part in the practical application of
electromagnetism.
   The resistance between two points on a magnetic circuit
may be expressed as the ratio of their potential difference to
the total induction passing from one to the other (provided
there is no reverse magnetomotive force between them).
   The measurement of the total induction is of course a simple
matter ; but, so far as I am aware, no method of directly
measuring differences of potential has yet been suggested.
   Let A and B be two points in a magnetic field connected
by any line of length I ; and let H represent magnetic force
resolved along I.
   Then, if V be the difference of potential between A and B,
                          V=jH.ttf.
   If, instead of points, A and B represent two equal plane
surfaces of area a, and V be their average difference of
potential,
                     aV=$Y .da=$K. dv,
v being the volume of a tube of constant cross section, a, con
necting A and B by any path.
   Now let a wire helix bo wound uniformly upon such a tube,
with n turns per unit length, and allow H to vary with time, t.
Provided there be no magnetic substance inside the helix, an
electromotive force, E, will be set up in the latter, such that
                                        ir a        dY
        E-ffi.da.dn^lt± . av = no ~7" ¦
                                                    at
The value of E is thus proportional to the rate of change of V;
and to this alone, if external inductive effects are guarded
against by winding the wire in an even number of layers (n
and a being constant) . Hence, if the wire be connected with
a ballistic galvanometer, and V be altered suddenly from V,
to V3, the needle of the galvanometer will be thrown through
     * Communicated by the Physical Society : read May 14, 1887.

        Mr. A. P. Chattock on a Magnetic Potentiometer.        95
the angle 6 such that
                        Vj-V^Ksin %
and the combination forms what may be called a magnetic
potentiometer.
    In exploring a permanent field with such an apparatus, the
best way is, perhaps, to fix one end of the helix in a clip,
thereby keeping its potential constant, and to move the other
end from point to point in the field. For this purpose the
wire should be wound upon a flexible core, the average length
of which, whether bent or straight, must be constant (other
 wise da . dn will not be equal to n . dv in the last equation).
     I have therefore constructed a helix by winding wire uni
 formly on to a piece of solid indiarubber, of constant cross
 section (in my case 37 centim. long and about 1 centim. dia
 meter), leaving a small space between one turn and the next
 to allow the indiarubber to bend without elongating.
     With this apparatus I made the following measurements of
 the potential difference between the ends of a permanent bar-
 magnet, in order to test the accuracy of the method. In the
 first set of readings the free end of the helix was moved at one
 leap from end to end of the magnet, giving a mean reading
 of 6-017 ; in the two other sets it was moved between the
 same two points in two and four leaps respectively, the result
 ing readings being added together in each case. The means
  of these were 6'047 and 6-048. The final mean was thus
  6-037; and from this the most discordant reading differed by
  about 1 per cent. The close agreement between the second
 and third values was, no doubt, accidental ; but the difference
  between them and the first may have been due to the diffi
  culty of moving quickly from end to end of the magnet, a
  distance of over 40 centim.
      In order to reduce these results to absolute measure, the
  helix (still connected with the galvanometer) was subjected
  to a known magnetomotive force by passing it through a coil
  of n turns and bringing its ends close together outside the
  coil, a current C being then started or stopped in the latter.
  The magnetomotive force due to this was of course equal to
  4TrnC, and this being substituted for Vj — V2 in the last equa
   tion determined the value of K. In my case these values
  were n = 20, C=0"182 C.G.S., and galvanometer throw =0"34.
   The difference of potential between the ends of the magnet
   was thus
               4^ x 20 x 0-182 x6.037 = 81Q c.G Si
                     0*o4

96          Mr. C. V. Burton on the " Dimensions " of
A more suitable core for the helix than indiarubber is the
flexible gas-tubing made of plaited and varnished canvas. It
is very uniform in cross section; and by withdrawing the
metal spiral upon which it is woven and mounting it on a
spindle in a screw-cutting lathe, it is easy to wind the wire
uniformly upon it.
    The use of the lathe is the more desirable, as measurements
of potential b}- the helix depend very much for their accuracy
upon the uniformity with which it is wound ; this being espe
cially the case if its position in the field does not happen to
coincide with the direction of the lines of force.
    To keep the turns in place the small spaces between them
may be filled with soft cotton-thread.
   University College, Bristol.
  X. On the "Dimensions " of Temperature in Length, Mass,
    and Time; and on an Absolute C.G.S. Unit of Temperature.
    By Charles V. Burton, B.Sc. (Lond.).*
 SIR W. THOMSON'S second absolute scale gives us the
       means of finding the ratio between two temperatures,
 independently of any arbitrary convention as to the size of
 degrees. We are therefore bound to consider temperature as
a physical quantity capable of exact measurement. Now every
 such quantity has certain dimensions in length, mass, and
 time ; and I here propose to find the dimensions of tem
 perature.
    Let temperatures be represented on Sir W. Thomson's
 absolute scale, so that nothing remains arbitrary except the
 size of the degrees. Consider an absolutely perfect gas whose
 temperature on this scale = t. Let the mean kinetic energy
 of a molecule of the gas = E. Then we have
                                E=&,                         (1)
 where k is the same for all temperatures and for all perfect
 gases ; being independent of the mass per molecule of the
 gas, and determined solely by the size of the degrees on our
 scale of temperature.
    If we write (1) in the form
 we see that a temperature (t) is completely determined by the
 average-kinetic-energy-per-molecule (E) of a perfect gas
                    • Communicated by the Author.

            Temperature in Length, Mass, and Time.             97
which has that temperature ; and that t is proportional to E.
Thns temperature is a quantity of the same kind as energy,
and its dimensions are therefore
                            ML2T-S.
Again, we have seen that k depends only on the size of the
degrees on our scale of temperature ; and these degrees have
hitherto been chosen of an arbitrary size.
   If we were intimately acquainted with the constitution of
bodies, the mass of their separate molecules, and so on, we
should be able (without requiring any experiments on that
hypothetical condition of matter called " perfect gas ") to find
the value of k corresponding to degrees of any given size on
the absolute scale. Or, again, a given value of k will deter
mine the size of the degrees on our scale. If we assume £ = 1,
we get an absolute unit of temperature, derived from those of
length, mass, and time, and independent of any other quan
tities. The relation (2) then becomes i = E ; i. e. any tempe
rature is measured by the mean-kinetic-energy-per-molecule
of a perfect gas having that temperature. With the C.G.S.
system of units, the xinit temperature would be that of a perfect
gas whose mean kinetic energy per molecule was one erg.
    From our present knowledge of the mass of molecules, and
of the properties of imperfect gases, we may form a very
rough idea of the relation between the Centigrade and the
 C.G.S. scales of temperature. For a perfect gas we have the
relation
                PV = f x kinetic energy of gas,
                    = §«E;
 where n = number of molecules in the volume V, and E, as
 before, is the mean-kinetic-energy-per-molecule. Now let
 P = one atmosphere = (roughly) 10 dynes per square centi
 metre, let V = 1 cubic centim., and let the temperature be
 0° 0. Then, according to Sir W. Thomson's measurements,
 n = about 6x 10'1 ;
                            _3 10^x1
                            = 2-5xl0-16.
    This number is then a very rough estimation of the value
 of the temperature 0° C. in absolute C.G.S. measure. Thus
  273 Centigrade degrees are equivalent to 2"5 x 10-'6 absolute
    Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 24. No. 146. July 1887.          H

98                Prof. A. P. Sundell's Researches
units of temperature ; therefore the absolute unit of tempera
ture is equivalent to
                 273 x 10IB Centigrade degrees,
                  = about 1018 Centigrade degrees.
 These figures are only intended to convey a very rough
 notion of the relation. They cannot of course be considered
 as even approximately correct, owing to the great uncertainty
 as to the mass of molecules.
    Having seen that temperature is a quantity of the same
 dimensions as energy, and knowing that the same is also true
 of heat, it follows that entropy, whose dimensions are heat ¦+¦
 temperature, is a purely numerical quantity ; and the unit of
 entropy is therefore independent of all other physical units.
 In fact, the entropy of a perfect gas increases by unity, when
 (without altering in temperature) it receives by conduction a
 quantity of heat equal to the mean energy of one of its molecules.
 This is seen by putting
                     ^=1;           ... AH=0=E,
 where 0 is the absolute (C.Gr.S.) temperature.
                XI. Researches on Spectrum Analysis.
                     By Prof. A. F. Sundell".
  CERTAIN natural phenomena, such as the aurora borealis,
          zodiacal light, and solar corona, have occasioned nu
  merous attempts to obtain the spectra of gases in a highly
  rarefied condition and at a low temperature. Under these
  conditions spectra generally become very feeble, and therefore
  difficult to observe. The following experiments show that
  tolerably bright spectra may be obtained by an advantageous
  employment of means already known.
      iiince the brightness of the spectrum depends, in the first
  place, upon the thickness of the radiating layer, " end-on "
  tubest are employed by preference. I have employed tubes
  as long as possible (up to 1£ metre long). The end towards
  the spectroscope was simply melted together, and rounded
  as well as might be in the process. The other end was drawn
  out and melted on to the tubes leading to the mercury-pump.
     * Translated from a separate impression from the Acta Socictatis
  Scientiarum Fenniccc, vol. xv., communicated by the Author.
     f Such tubes have been employed by Prof. P. Smyth for observations
  on gaseous spectra in vacuo (Eeibl. vii. 1883, p. 286).

                        on Spectrum Analysis.                            99
   I have not employed electrodes fused into the tubes them
selves. As a rule, the tubes have been rendered luminous by
means of tinfoil coatings near the ends of the tubes, as
employed by Salet, Hasselberg, and others. By the adoption
of this method the process of discharge no doubt becomes most
nearly like tbat of Nature, and the temperature is kept as low
as possible. The source of electricity was a Holtz machine
without Leyden jars, the terminals of which were connected
by means of wires with the coating of the tube. The coating
thus corresponded to the external coatings of the jars of the
machine, the strata of air against the inner wall of the tube
serving as the inner coating.
   I have usually employed a spectroscope constructed by
Wrede in Stockholm, belonging to the Central Meteorological
Institute of Helsingfors, which was used by Prof. Lemstrom*
in his observations on the aurora in the years 1871-73. The
spectroscope consists of onedispersing-prism and one refleeting-
prism. The dispersion is somewhat small, not being sufficient
to divide the sodium-lines. Ten divisions on the head of the
micrometer- screw correspond to intervals of OOOOOOG and
OOOOOOOG millim. in the extreme red and extreme violet
respectively. The scale was constructed as follows :—A thin
glass plate (a microscopic cover-glass) was covered on one
side with indian-ink and five fine parallel lines ruled through
the black coating. The other surface was coated with Bal-
main's luminous paint. This plate was then fixed in the eye
piece of the spectroscope, so that the fine lines were parallel to
the lines of the spectrum and in focus at the same time and
occupied about half of the field of viewf. It was rendered
luminous by burning a match before the eyepiece. It a
bright line in the spectrum was to be measured, this was done
just before the experiment ; but for fainter lines the measure
 ment was made after the phosphorescence had become feeblerj
and with very faint lines it is necessary that the index-lines
 should only be very slightly luminous, so that they may not
overpower the lines of the spectrum. In such cases the
 adjustment was much easier, because there were five index-
   * This spectroscope is fully described in the Ofcersiyt of Fiwka
 Vetenskaps-Societetens firluindlinyar, XV. pp. 21-23, 1873. l)r. Fuchs
has described a reflecting direct-vision prism as new in the Zeitschrift fur
Irutrumentenkunde, 18til, p. 352; this prism is the most remarkable
feature of the Wrede spectroscope, and was described to the lloyal
Swedish Academy of Sciences so long ago as 1870.
   t I have described an index of this sort in the Astr. Nachrichten,
No. 2430 (1882). 1 have since learned that Prof. Vogel had employed
phosphorescent marks in 1881 for the measurement of spectra of feeble
luminosity (Zeitschrift fur Instrumentenkunde, 1881, p. 20).
                                   H2

100              Prof. A. F. Sundell's Researches
lines instead of only one. Generally the spectrum-lines
were brought into coincidence with the central index-line
by turning the micrometer-screw ; only for three lines in
the extreme violet the outer index-line was used, because the
screw-thread ceased here. The wave-lengths were deter
mined by means of a table which I bad constructed from a
 curve of wave-lengths belonging to the spectroscope, from
the difference between the position of a line and that of the
sodium-line. By way of control, the lithium-line 5706 and
the strontium-lines 4G06' and 4805 were read in each series
of measurements, the corrections for the spectrum-lines mea
sured being determined by simple interpolation.
    The larger spectroscope, belonging to the Physical Labora
tory of the University, which I have employed for some
measurements, is also constructed according to Wrede's prin
 ciple. It has two prisms of heavy flint glass, and reflecting
 crown-glass prisms. The index was constructed by H. Biese,
 who had published the idea of a self-luminous index at about
the same time as myself*. The index consists ofa fine slit in a
 thin brass plate ; the side of the slit turned towards the prisms
 is filled with a phosphorescent substance. The dispersion is
 considerable ; ten divisions of the micrometer correspond to
 a change of 0'0000013 in the extreme red and 0-0000002
millim. in the extreme violet ; the sodium-lines D, and D,
 are divided. The tables for the wave-lengths were calculated
 from a curve drawn by H. Biese.
    Most of the observations were made in a dark room in the
 Physical Laboratory of the Polytechnic Institute of Hel-
 singfors. I take the opportunity of expressing my thanks
both to the Director of the Institute, H. Qvist, and to the
 Professor of Physics, Dr. Slotte, both for the use of the room
 so specially suited for these experiments, and also for the use of
 various apparatus necessary for my experiments from the
 collection of instruments belonging to the Laboratory. The
electrical machine was stationed in a neighbouring room,
where it was kept in action by means of a water-motor. For
 the rarefaction of the gas in the spectral tube, I employed the
 mercury-pump which I had constructed for the Polytechnic
 Institute f. The movable tube had neither tap nor stopper,
 and the globe with phosphoric anhydride was melted on.
The spectral tube employed was 155 centim. long, and at
one end had an internal diameter of 10'8 millim. and glass
 2-l millim. thick ; at the other end the tube was 12-9 millim.
   * Ofvertiyt af Finska Vetenshaps-Societctens firhandlingar, xxiv.
p. 30.
   t Acta Societaiis Scientiarum Fennica;, vol. xv. p. 169.

                      on Spectrum Analysis.                   101
wide, and the glass 1*6 millim. thick. The tube rested in a
horizontal position on glass supports, depending from wooden
consoles attached to the wall of the room. The connexion
with the air-pump was made by means of a Kundt's glass
spiral. At the same time a spectral tube was put up in the
same way in the Physical Laboratory of the University, by
the kind permission of Prof. Lem^trorn.
   In the tube in the Polytechnic Institute the following gases
were successively examined :—air, hydrogen, oxygen, air,
nitrogen, hydrogen, air, oxygen. The apparatus was unaltered
all the time ; the new gas was introduced, in the manner
peculiar to my pump*, after the former gas had been removed
as completely as possible. I give here only the results for
air, regarding the results obtained with the other gases merely
as preliminary, since I was not able to work with pure gases.
I therefore reserve the complete examination of these gases
for a future occasion, and give here the results already obtained
with them only briefly.
   I wish to express my thanks to Herr G. Melander for the
help he gave me during the whole investigation.
   The conducting-globes had a diameter of 27"8 millim. ; the
sparks were generally 5 millim. long. It appeared that a
great length of spark might be injurious to the tube. On
one occasion a tube of thin glass broke whilst a discharge
passed between the tinfoil coating and the layer of air
clinging to the inner wall of the tube. I have further
remarked that of the capillary canals, which always exist
in the walls of the tube parallel to its length, those which lie
nearest the inside easily burst and discharge the air which
 they contain into the tube, when the discharges are powerful.
 It therefore often happens that the pressure in the tube sud
denly increases very much, and the luminosity becomes very
vivid, if, after having produced a great exhaustion, the air
has been driven from the inner wall of the tube by electric
discharges. In one case I was able, after such an occurrence,
to detect the small holes in the capillary channel which had
 burst, and the little splinters of glass.
    I have made the following observations with regard to the
mercury-lines which are to be expected when the mercurial
 pump is employed. In tubes containing pure air, nitrogen,
 or oxygen, the mercury-lines appear only at high exhaustions.
 Only the strongest line 54(i appears in tubes containing air;
 but in nitrogen and oxygen tubes also the lines 579 (double),
 492, and 43*5. In hydrogen tubes, and in tubes with impure
 air (containing carbon dioxide), these lines appear already at
                           * Loc. cit. p. 178.

102                Prof. A. F. Sundell's Researches
considerable pressure, together with the hydrogen and air
lines ; in hydrogen tubes the lines 408, 405, and (at high
exhaustion) 483* feebly, were also seen.
    Under the circumstances named, the air began to be
luminous at a pressure of 10-12 millim.t; the end with the
positive coating became luminous somewhat sooner (at
 14 millim.) than the whole tube. It was, however, possible
to produce a feeble luminosity of the tube at a considerably
higher pressure (about 50 millim.) by pushing a conductor
along the tube in contact with the wall until a spark passed
between the conductor and the one coating. An unexpected
phenomenon was observed at a pressure of about 8 millim.,
inasmuch as the light appeared to be stratified in a peculiar
manner. As I propose to examine this stratification more
particularly, I describe it here only briefly. The first quarter
from the positive coating was strongly luminous, the intensity
diminishing slightly towards the end of this portion. The
second quarter also began with a strong luminosity, which
became somewhat, weaker towards the middle of the tube.
The third quarter was distinctly stratified ; in one case there
were only three or four luminous stratifications, which oscil
lated tolerably rapidly and appeared like luminous balls ; in
another experiment I observed a number of thinner layers.
Only towards the beginning of the fourth quarter was there
a thicker layer : all the stratifications oscillated rapidly}.
The last quarter next the negative coating was always strongly
luminous without stratification§. The narrow spiral glass
tube which made connexion with the pump was also generally
strongly luminous, whether the coating at this end was negative
or positive.
   The spectroscope showed a large number of bands. With
narrow bands the reading was taken for the middle ; with
broader bands for both edges. The following wave-lengths
are the arithmetic means of various measurements within the
limits of pressure (0-2 to 1"2 millim.) between which the
   * E. Wiedemann has investigated the spectroscopic behaviour of
mercury-vapour mixed with other gases at high temperatures, Wied.
Ann. v. p. <>47 (1878). Compare also H. W. Vogel, Berlin. Mmiats-
beriehte, 1870, p. 536.
   t All measurements of pressure are given in columns of mercury
at about 20° C. ; for details of the method of measuring pressure, 1 refer
to the paper already cited on the air-pump {Acta Soc. Soient. Fennicts,
xv. p. 160).
   | Similar halls of light (G limmlichtkwjeln) have been observed under
certain conditions by Keitlinger and v. Urbanitzky in short and wide
tubes (Wied. Ann. xiii. p. 673).
   § I have observed a similar stratification in a hydrogen-tube.

                        on Spectrum Analysis.                           103
spectrum was the brightest. The observations made with the
large spectroscope are noted. The intensity, estimated for the
spectrum as seen in the small spectroscope, is given on a scale
from 1 to 5. The minus sign after a number indicates that the
intensity falls short of that number, and the plus sign that it
exceeds it ; so that 1 + means an intensity between 1 and 2
but nearer 1 than 2, whilst 2— means intensity nearer 2
than 1.
  No.     Wave-length.      Intensity.                 Remarks.
    1.      0,0006778          1-
    2.           6680          1       Nos. 2-17 observed in the large
    3.           6600          1+         spectroscope ; Nos. 2-10 with a
    4.           6527          1           wider slit.
    5.           6445          1
    &            6373          1
    7.           6294          1
    8.           6229          1-
    9.           6164          1-
  10.            6111          1-
  11.            6052          2-      Breadth 31 X 10-7.
  12.            5996          1+           „     38.
  13.            5934          1                  36.
  14.            5881          1-                 33.
  16.            5833          1-                 33 (double?).
  16.            5784          1-                 30 (double?).
  17.            5734          1
  18.            5665          1       Very weak.
  19.            5621          1-
                                        f Sharp edge of a band, beginning
  20.            5382                  i about 557°, very weak, and gra-
                                        [ dually becoming stronger.
  21.            5304          1--     Very weak.
  22.            5228          2-       1 In the large spectroscope four
  23.            5164          1+       1 lines : 5224, 5195, 5179, 5145.
  24.     /      50671         2        fin the large spectroscope 5060,
          1      4996/                 1 5029, 498a
  25.            4910          2
  26.            4813          2       In the large spectroscope 4832, 4812.
  27.            4700          3+                                4715,4707.
   28.           4659          2+                                4663,4647.
   29.           4574          3
   30.           4491          2+      In the large spectroscope 4500, 4488.
   31.           4415          1
   32.           4341          3
   33.     f     4293 1        5       In the large spectroscope 4278, 4269.
           1     4275/
   34.           4209          1
   35.           4152          1       In the large spectroscope 4140.
   36.           4074          2+                                 4057.
   37.           4020          2-              it          tj     3995.
   38.           3910          l~      Broad band.
    The spectrum underwent no change if the connexions of
 the coatings with the conductors were reversed. I have

104             Prof. A. F. Sundell's Researches
observed the following changes with change of pressure.
With a tolerably wide slit the spectrum could be measured at
a pressure of 12 millim. Feeble continuous light began at
 557. The bands 22 and 23 appeared as a continuous band of
mean wave-length 5192. Further, 24, 25, 26, 27, and 28
 appeared united into one band, which was also the case with
 29, 30, 32, 33, 34, 36, 37. Nos. 11 and 31 appeared at a
 pressure of 5"5 millim. ; and all the bands became visible at
 2*3 millim. When the pressure sank below 0"2 millim. all the
 bands became decidedly weaker, the feebler bands disappearing
 first with increasing exhaustion. Thus, at a pressure of
0 02 millim. the bands 1 to 9, 21 to 26, 31, 34, 35, and 38 bad
 disappeared, and the bands 11 to 17 had united to form a con
 tinuous glow. At O'Ol millim. there were left only 10, 27,
 28, 33; and at 0"0023 millim. only 27, 28, and 33; whilst at
0 0013 millim. the band 28 also vanished. If I pushed the
 exhaustion still further I could see no air-lines, although the
tube was still faintly luminous, the mercury-line 546 being
quite distinct. No luminosity was produced by single dis
charges ; at a pressure of 0 0007 millim. the tube only became
luminous very seldom, and if the pressure was less than
0"0003 millim. there was generally no light to be perceived.
With the same velocity of the induction machine the sparks
followed each other much more rapidly than at higher pres
sures. We may therefore conclude that with high values the
tube no longer acts as a conductor, because the rarefied air is
no longer present in sufficient quantity.
    With a very high exhaustion the walls of the tube fluoresced
strongly, cspeciailj- near the positive coating ; and at each
discharge this coating emitted a sharp sound, like that of a
spark. Some of Crookes's kathode-rays were seen at a pres
sure of 0'002 millim.
    In one case, however, each discharge produced light in the
tube, although fully exhausted. The tube had been heated in
an air-bath to a temperature of about 250° C. for several hours
daily during ten days, in order to disengage the air from the
sides of the tube as much as possible. The pressure was re
duced on each occasion to a few millionths of a millimetre by
continuous pumping. In the intervals while the tube was not
heated, the pressure rose from one day to another by about
0-00015 millim. After this preparation I examined the effect
of discharges, and found that a tolerably strong luminosity
was produced, which was finely stratified throughout the
tube. In the spectroscope on\y the five previously mentioned
inercury-Hnes 579,546, 492,483,436 were seen. Since pure
air generally shows only the mercury-line 546 in high vacua,

                       on Spectrum Analysis.                        105
the air in this tube was probably a little contaminated with
coal-gas, introduced when the apparatus was last fused together.
After the discharge had gone on for some minutes, the pressure
was measured and found to be 0*00053. Hence we see that,
in spite of the persistent heating, gas still adhered to the wall
of the tube and was disengaged by the electricity.
   How obstinately air adheres to a glass surface is particularly
shown by the tube put up in the Physical Laboratory of the
University. This lube had been exhausted from time to time
for four months, each time to a few millionths of a milli
metre ; yet, after some time, there was always a considerable
pressure. Thus, on the 8th of January the pressure was
0-0013 millim., on the 14th 0 0011 millim., on the 21st
0 0005 millim., and on the 22nd of February 0*0028 millim.*
This tube was provided with electrodes of a special kind.
Before the tube was closed, thin aluminium-foil was introduced
into the tube, corresponding to the external tinfoil coatings,
from which narrow strips projected along the axis of the tube
towards the middle, and served as electrodes. I was led to
this arrangement, not being able to melt the electrodes into
the tube ; the action may be considered as nearly the same as
that of the ordinary electrodes melted into the glass. This
tube, in fact, ceased to be luminous at a pressure of about
0*004 millim. and a spark-length of 5 millim. When the
pressure was still smaller (a few millionths of a millimetre), I
could not perceive any luminosity, even with the greatest
possible spark-length (15 millim.) ; but the luminosity com
menced suddenly upon the bursting of one of the capillary
canals mentioned above.
   In the hydrogen-tube I obtained a very pure hydrogen
spectrum ; although the gas had been prepared in the usual
way from zinc and sulphuric acid, both free from arsenic,
the gas had a strong odour of hydrocarbons. The luminosity
began at a pressure of 30 millim. (with gas containing air at
43 millim.). At a pressure of 0*35 millim. the spectrum
showed the lines C ( = 656), F ( = 486), and 434 (united with
the mercury-line 436 to a band?), as well as numerous faint
lines (especially in the red and orange) of the second hydrogen
spectrum investigated by Hasselberg. The tube was luminous
at the highest vacuum attainable, at least at the positive
coating ; the light failed only in individual discharges.
Crookes's rays were seen even at a pressure of 0*008 millim.
  • I have not observed the phenomenon mentioned hy Bessel-IIngen
fWied. Ann. xii. p. 440, 1881), that the air liberated from the walls of
the tube by electric discharges condenses again, so that after some time
the pressure decreases again.

106        Dr. G. A. Liebig on tlie Electrostatic Force
Only in one case (with hydrogen containing air) have I
observed fine stratifications in a high vacuum.
   If the tube contained oxygen (prepared from potassium
chlorate) the luminosity began at about 30 milliin. ; the
spectrum was brightest at about 0'2 milliin. The two bands
563-556 and 529-523 were specially conspicuous, and these
two could be recognized with greater exhaustion when the
tube was only faintly luminous. At high vacua the light
failed oftener than with the hydrogen-tube.
   With nitrogen I obtained in the small spectroscope the
same spectrum as with air.
  Helsingfors, May 26, 1885.
XII. On the Electrostatic Force required to produce Sparks in
   Air and other Gases. By G. A. Liebig, Ph.D., Johns
   Hopkins University*.
                                  [Plate II.]
THE following experiments were undertaken at the sug
      gestion of Prof. Rowland, and the results submitted from
time to time to his inspection.
                                 Historical.
   Determinations of the difference of potential required to
produce sparks in air appear to be numerous. But the earlier
measurements, such as those made by Voltaf, Riessf, and
Gaugain §, in which the difference of potential was determined
in arbitrary units by means of electroscopes, unit jars, &c,
have little more than a historic value. It was, however,
noticed by these observers that the length of spark increased
more rapidly than the charge ; and Van Oettingen || deduced
an empirical formula,
                              q = c\og(l + el),
in which c and e are constants, I is the length of spark, and
q the charge, to express this relation. The first experiments
on the subject, giving results in absolute measure, were made
 by Sir William Thomson^!. In his investigation the sparks
were made to pass between two plates, one of which was flat,
the other slightly convex ; and the difference of potential
               *  Communicated by the Author.
               t  Idenfita, p. 53.
               t  Pogg. Ann. xl. p. 333 (1837).
               §  Ann. de Chim. et de Phtjs. viii. p. 108 (1806).
               || Pogg. Ann. Jubelbd., p. 275 (1874).
              1]  ' Electrostatics and Magnetism.'

      required to produce Sparks in Air and other Gases.         107
determined by means of one of his recently constructed Abso
lute Electrometers. It was found that the electrostatic force
per unit length diminished at first rapidly, with increasing
difference of potential, then slowly, and approached a limit the
value of which was supposed by Thomson to be about 130
C.G.S. electrostatic units per centimetre.
   In 1882 Bailie* published an account of some experiments
in which sparks nearly 1 centim. long were passed between
two plates. His results are expressed in the formula
       V2 = 10500 (1 + 0-08) I C.G.S. electrostatic units,
provided I is not greater than 1 centim.
   Similar expressions have been given by Macfarlaue t ;
namely, for sparks less than 1 centim. long he deduces from
his observations,
     V = 66-940v/i2 + 0-20503 I C.G.S. electrostatic units.
The agreement between these expressions is not satisfactory ;
they give, for instance, for a spark 0"1 centim. long, values
which differ by about 10 per cent.
   In gases other than air very much less has been done ;
indeed no direct observations appear to have been made.
MacfarlaneJ compared the difference of potential necessary to
give a 0'5 centim. spark in air with the difference required to
give a spark of same length in several other gases. Calling
this difference unity for air, he finds for
   Carbon dioxide.    Nitrogen.         Hydrogen.      Coal-gaa.
        •951             -930              -634           -935
From which it appears that hydrogen offers a much smaller
resistance to the disruptive discharge than any other one of
the gases experimented upon.
                              Instruments.
   The electrometer used in the present work was a very fine
instrument, made from designs of Prof. Rowland by T. Edel-
mann, of Miinchen, on the principle of Sir Win. Thomson's
Absolute Electrometer. But it was much larger than, and
differed in other and important respects from, those generally
in use. One feature was the attachment of the movable disk
to the end of the arm of a balance, from the other end of
which depended, on knife-edges, a regular balance-pan. This
whole system was inclosed in a metallic case, through a hinged
           * Ann. de C'him. et de Phys. xxv. p. 480.
           t Trans. Roy. Snc. Edinb. xxviii. p. 630 (1877).
           t Phil. Mag.' [5] x. p. 389 (1880).

108        Dr. Gr. A. Liebig on the Electrostatic Force
door in the side of which weights could be placed upon the
scale-pan without disturbing in any way the movable disk.
The guard-ring and lower plate of the electrometer measured
nearly 35 centim. in diameter, whilst the movable disk had a
diameter of almost exactly 10 centim. All of these plates
were ground with great accuracy to plane surfaces. The
lower movable plate was insulated from the rest of the appa
ratus by means of its support, which was a vulcanite rod
sufficiently thick and strong to keep the plate quite rigid. It
ended with a metal stem on which was engraved a millimetre-
scale (from 0 to 80 millim.), and fitted into a metal socket
provided with a vernier divided to lOths of a millim., and a
tangent-screw and clamp. Rough adjustments were made by
 releasing the clamp and moving the plate by its vulcanite
 support. It was then clamped and set to within l-10th
millim. by the tangent-screw, and readings made by estima
tion to l-20th millim. The plate with its attachments was
prevented from falling, when released from its socket, by a
counterpoise at the end of a lever. The plates between which
the sparks were made to pass were of brass, and were ground
to spherical segments. Their radius of curvature was 9*76
centim., and diameter 4-83 centim. These plates were firmly
attached by insulating handles to the frame and carriage,
respectively, of a dividing-engine, with which their distance
apart was measured.
   During the experiments on coal-gas, hydrogen, &c, the
plates were enclosed in an air-tight cylindrical vessel made of
glass and wood, with a capacity of about 400 cubic inches,
and provided with stuffing-boxes at each end, through which
the rods holding the plates passed. The gases, which were
dried over calcium chloride, were admitted into the chamber
in a steady stream by upward or downward displacement,
according to density. The gases were always at ordinary
temperatures (18° to 20° C.) and pressures. In the case of
C02, coal-gas, and hydrogen, the pressures in the vessel were
just sufficient to force the gases through in an almost constant
stream. After every series of experiments the plates were
polished and all traces made by the sparks obliterated. This
could always be accomplished by a few minutes' rubbing on
a concave surface (which had been used originally to grind
the plates with) covered with paper and dry rouge. The
electricity was furnished by a small Holiz machine, and the
wires leading from it to the electrometer and a single Leyden
jar (always kept in the circuit) were covered with glass tubes
to prevent leakage as far as possible.

       required to produce Sparks in Air and other O'ases.    109
                  Adjustments and Corrections.
   The balance of the electrometer was carefully adjusted to
equilibrium before beginning the experiments. The guard-
ring and movable disk were made parallel to the lower plane
by means of a piece of plane parallel glass, which was moved
from place to place ; the lower plate being raised or lowered by
three set-screws, until tbe gliiss just touched both surfaces in
its different positions. This adjustment, which served also to
give the zero-reading of the electrometer, was made several
times in order to avoid constant errors.
    A correction to the distance between the pktes, which is
rendered necessary when the guard-ring and suspended disk
are not in the same plane, was avoided in this case by so ad
justing the latter that in its zero position it was exactly in
the plane of the guard-ring, and prevented by a set-screw
under the balance-arm from moving further away from the
lower plate. The extent of its downward motion under the
action of the electrical forces need not be considered ; inas
much as the quantity to bo measured, for a given difference of
 potential, is that distance between the plates at which the
 suspended disk can just be moved. As the equilibrium is
 unstable, a force which is sufficient to move the disk at all
 will move it downward as far as the supports permit.
    The interval between the guard-ring and disk was 1 millim.,
 and a correction was applied to the area of the latter, as cal
 culated from the formula (Maxwell, ' Electricity and Mag
 netism,' i. p. 307, footnote)
              A=^{R2 + E12-(R1i + R)1J^},
 where Rt — R is the thickness of the annular space between
 the suspended disk and guard-ring, and
                      «=0-220635(R1-R).
 The weights used in the balance-pan varied from 0*2 to 5 grms.,
 a different weight being employed for every 20 or 25 readings.
    To find the difference of potential or the electrostatic force
 from observations on an absolute electrometer, we have only
 to apply the formula
       V is the difference of potential to be measured; D is the
  distance between the plates of the electrometer ; A is the
  area (corrected) of the suspended disk ; w the weight in the

110        Dr. G. A. Liebig on the Electrostatic Force
balance ; and g the force of gravity at the place in which the
observations are made.
   In order to determine whether the method of finding when
the plates were in contact, by observing when the sparks just
disappeared, was an accurate one, the plates were connected
with a battery and galvanometer, and alternate readings taken.
As a result, it was found that the former method gave, in
general, values about 5J0 millim. too small, though they were
occasionally too large ; but in any case the difference was
small enough to be neglected.
   As the plates between which the sparks passed were sphe
rical, a correction to the measured difference of potential was
rendered necessary in order to reduce the values to plane
surfaces.
   In the preliminary experiments a considerable difficulty
was encountered in measuring the difference of potential for
sparks of small length when the plates were close together.
Unless the machine was run very slowly, the sparks were given
off in such rapid succession that the suspended disk had not time
to swing back to zero before a new impulse acting on it drew
it downward again. Even the damping effect of that part
of the metal case which is above it cannot prevent this ; and a
reading taken under such circumstances would unquestionably
give values very much too large. However, by turning the
Holtz machine very slowly indeed, and by increased expe
rience, errors of this kind were finally avoided.
                             Results.
   The results of the experiments are given in Tables I., II., III.,
and IV., and the curves corresponding to them on Plate II. In
 each diagram one curve gives the distance and total electro
 motive force, and one the relation between distance or length
 of spark and electromotive force per centimetre. The values
 are in all cases in C.G.S. electrostatic units ; and about 150
 observations were used to plot each of the curves. In order
 to show the form of the curve for the total electromotive force
 more plainly, it was found desirable to construct this on a
 scale three times as large as that used for the force per unit
 length. The ordinates are therefore to be measured according
 to one of two scales, both of which are constructed on the
 Plate.

     required to produce Sparks in Air and other Gases.                        Ill
                             Table I.—Air.
               Electro                                   Electro
 Length of static   force, Total force, Length
   apart, in per centiin.                  spiirk,
                                                   of static
                                                   in         force, Total force,
centimetres. o.as.           O.G.S. centimetres. per centiin. C.G.S.
                                                         C.G.S.
     •0066       398-5         2-630         ¦2398          1277        30622
     •0105       319-7         3-357         •2800         125-7        35-196
     ¦0143       280-9         4017          •3245          122-7       39-816
     •0194       235-7         4 573         •3920         119-9        47-001
     •0245       20l>-4        5-057         •4715         1170         55165
     ¦0348       206-6         7-190         •5588          1140        63-703
     ¦0438       195-5         8-803         •6226         112-4        69-980
     ¦0004       179-9        10-806         •7405          1110        82195
     ¦0841       1611         13-548         •8830          108-2       95-540
      0903       1530         13-816         •9576          107 0      102-403
     •1000       1500         15-000    I 10672             103-8      110-775
      1520       137-8        20-946        11440           102-7      117-489
      I860       133-2        24-775
                          Table II.—Coal-gas.
                Electro Total force, Length of
   Length of static                                       Electro
                      force, in O.G.S. spark, in
    spark, in per centini.                              static force, Total force,
  centimetres.                  units. centimetres.
                                                                          C.G.S.
                                                        per centim. inunits.
                C.G.S.                                     C.G.S.
      •0060       291-6         1-750    1    -3439          117-7       40-477
      •0144       235-0         3-384    1    -8601          1170        42-132
       0255       212-6         5-421         ¦4268          112-7       48100
      ¦0340       205-5         6-885         •4708          110-4       51-976
       0451       178 1         8032          •5430          107-9       58-590
      •0546       177-9         9713          •5586          107 6       60-105
      •0679       166-5        11-305         •6325          107 0       67-677
      •0863       156-6        13-515         ¦7450          103-9       77-405
      ¦0958       150-9        14-456         ¦8410          1006        84-604
      ¦1240       1430         17732          •8760           99-4       87-074
      •1590       130-9        20 813         •9791           97-0       94-973
      •1953       1271         25-799        1-0676           949       101-315
      •2244       128-4        28813         1-1868           92-4      109-686
      •2840       122-9        34-904
 -—

 112         Production of Sparks in Air and other Gases.
                     Table III.—Carbon Dioxide.
                  Electro
     Length of static                                     Electro
                       force, Total force, Length
      Bpurk, in per centim.                  spark,
                                                     of static
                                                     in        force, Total force,
   centimetres C.S.G.           C.G.S.                  per  centim.
                                           centimetres. C.G.S.          C.G.S.
        •0047       344-5        1619          •2380        141-6       33-701
        •0(192      305-7        2-812         ¦2688        1380        37-094
        •0155       283-7        4-397         ¦3257        1291        42-048
        ¦0237       268-8        6371          •3922        123-0       48-241
        •0282       252-0        7-106         ¦4290        1200        61-480
        •0327       233-3        7-629         •4911       1160         56-968
        ¦0391       224-3        9-357         •5274        112 6       69-385
        •0540       2100        11-340         •6170       109-3        67-438
        •0853       1820        15-542         •7330       107-2        78-577
        ¦0940       179 0       16-826         ¦8132       104 0        84-573
        •1209       174-9       21145          •8752       102-5        89-708
        ¦1430       1642        23-481         •9381       102-2        95-874
       •1728        1570        27-130        10275        1013        104086
                         Table IV.—Hydrogen.
                 Electro
    Length of static           Electro      Length of Electro          Electro
                      force, static
     spark, in per centim.          force, spark, in static
                                                        per
                                                              force, static
                                                             centim.         force,
   centimetres. C.G.S. total C.G.S. centimetres. C.G.S. total C.G.S.
       •0210       244-4         5-132         ¦3898        84(5         32-977
       ¦0409        1846         7-550         •4335        82-1         35-590
       •0542        156-4        8477          •4975        77 8         38-705
       •0(191       144-7        9-91.9        •6296        75-7         40-091
       •0843        1340        11-296         •5640        75-1        42-356
        0970        131-5       12755          •6400        72-5         46-400
       •1056       127 4        13453          ¦7240        690          499f6
        1275        1200        15-300         •7930        67 7         53-686
       •1552       1129         17522          •8238        66-9         651 12
       •1972       1040         20-509         •8S96        65-6         58-368
       •2300         993        22839          •9760        639         62-302
       •2865         941        26960         10109         630          63-687
       •3215         92-5       29-739        10870         62-5         67937
  On examining the curves, it will be remarked that, although
the values of the electrostatic force differ for different gases,
the general form of the curves which give the relation between
the potential and length of spark is nearly the same for all.
In every case there seems to be a sudden fall in the electro
static force per centimetre at first, after which the change
becomes more and more gradual and uniform. It further
appears probable that the value given by Sir William Thomson
as the limit to which the force per unit length approaches is
somewhat too large. Indeed, it seems impossible to deter

                   On the Law of Molecular Force.             113
mine exactly what the limit is. For when the plates are
separated by a considerable interval, even when they are
spherical segments, the sparks have a tendency to leave at
points removed from the centre, which of course makes
their length indeterminate; and if thoy are given a smaller
radius of curvature, the correction becomes too large to be
used with safety.
    It is intended to continue the investigation with plates of
different metals. Some later experiments, in which nickel-
plated brass plates were used, seem to indicate a smaller value
of the electrostatic force, the difference being more marked at
small than at great distances. It was noticed that with brass
plates the sparks limned out a considerable area around the
central point, whereas when the plates wore nickel-plated the
effects were greatly diminished. This would give rise to
greater surface-inequalities in one case than in the other ; and
although the plates were frequently polished, might perhaps
offer an explanation of the fact just referred to.
    However, the observations are too few in number to furnish
reliable information; and at present (May) the warm weather
prevents a continuance of the work by interfering with
insulation.
   Johns Tlopkins University,
    Baltimore, June 2, 1887.
              XIII. On the Lata of Molecular Force.
             By Willum Sutherland, M.A., B.Sc*
I^HE object of the present paper is to show that the law of
        molecular force, which I previously announced (Phil.
Mag. Aug. 1886) as holding for matter in the gaseous state,
holds also formatter in the liquid state, and therefore, we may
be sure, for matter in any state; and that accordingly it is the
one fundamental law of the action of molecule on molecule at
molecular distances. This general law of molecular force
is :—Any two molecules of matter attract one another with a
force proportional directly to the product of their masses, and
inversely to the fourth power of the distance between them.
    In my previous paper I confined myself to showing that
with such a law of force the potential energy of the molecules
of a body would be proportional inversely to the volume occu
pied by them, and that this conclusion agreed with the results
of Thomson and Joule's experiments on the expansion of gases
through porous plugs. Now, of course, since Laplace gave
his great theory of capillary action to the world, it has been
an obvious result of the general conditions which he postu-
                    * Communicated by the Author.
   Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 24. No. 146. July 1887.         I

114                Mr. W. Sutherland on the
lates for the unknown law of molecular force in order that it
may account for capillary action, that the potential energy of
a number of molecules must be inversely proportional to the
volume occupied by them ; but my attention was first drawn
to the form A/r4 as that expressing the law of molecular
force by the fact that it is the only particular case of the
general form A/rm (m having any value fractional or integral)
which satisfies Laplace's conditions when they are established
on a satisfactory physical basis. The fact (which I will after
wards show) that Laplace's conditions tacitly exclude the
possibility of expressing the law of molecular force by a finite
series of inverse powers of r fractional or integral, unless the
series reduces to A/r*, gives the law of the inverse fourth
power a special claim to investigation, and also calls for an
inquiry into the physical soundness of the conditions ; for
while to the mathematician the conception of a function of r,
which increases rapidly as r diminishes, but which cannot be
expressed as a finite series of inverse powers of r, is easy enough,
the physicist, who naturally looks on the law of gravitation as a
first approximation to the complete law of the action of matter
on matter (for which I would propose the name molic force,
including gravitation, molecular and chemic force), must find
the exclusion of a law expressible by a series of inverse powers
of r highly arbitrary, and suggestive rather of the domination
of nature by formula?, than of her expression, which is the
 object of the physicist.
    Laplace's expression for the resultant attraction of a mass
of liquid of density p with a plane surface on a column of the
same liquid of section to, terminating at the plane surface and
normal to it, is          Cm C P°°
                   2Trp>a>\ dz\ ldl\ {r)dr,
                         Jo     Jo     Ji
 mm'f(r) representing the attraction between two molecules of
 masses m and mf. The only express stipulation made at first
 about r is that its value is to be insensible at sensible distances.
 To remove the vagueness inherent in this general expression
 of this condition, Gauss {Werke, V., Principia generalia
 theorise figuras fluidorum in statu equilibrii) casts it into the
following definite form :—
    Let M be a mass such as we have to deal with in ordinary
 experiments, and which is therefore negligible in comparison
 with the mass of the earth, then M/(r) being of the same
 dimensions as^is comparable with it, and the definite expres
 sion of the above condition is that M/(r) is to be negligible in
 comparison with <j when r has a sensible value, but that it may
have a very large value in comparison with g for insensible
 values of r. Even yet there is a vagueness in the use of the

                     Law of Molecular Force.                   115
terms sensible and insensible, the only method of removing
which is to stipulate that the law of force is to be such that if
the actions between molecules in an experimental body farther
apart than a certain distance L are taken account of, they
will contribute to the quantity whose amount is to be investi
gated a portion negligible in comparison with the portion
contributed by the actions between molecules at a distance
apart less than L.
   But although this is the only stipulation to begin with, the
above triple integral involves important tacit assumptions.
The use of infinite upper limits in an expression to be applied
to finite bodies involves nothing really objectionable ; they
merely express loosely in a symbolical form the above con
dition, that actions at sensible distances are insensible ; but
when we come to examine the meaning of the lower limit 0
in the last integration, it is quite otherwise; two fundamentally
important assumptions are involved.           It must be remem
bered that the triple integral is intended to replace a double
sum 2" 2j'mM/(i') cos 6, which is the true expression for the
resultant attraction of the liquid mass on the column, m being
the mass of any molecule of the column, M of any molecule of
the liquid mass, r the distance between m and M, and 6 the
angle which r makes with the axis of the column, n the num
ber of molecules in the column, and N the number in the
liquid mass. Comparing the sum with the integral, we see
that the assumption is made that the discontinuous molecules
may be imagined to be spread out into continuous matter, and
that the base of the continuous column may be considered to
be in actual contact with the continuous liquid mass, no
matter what was the original distance of the bottom layer of
molecules of the column from the top layer of the liquid mass.
We might allow the same latitude to the meaning of 0 as we
have to <x> and take it as meaning some small limit ; but we
are not entitled to assume that this small limit is fixed and
independent of the original distance that separates a molecule
and its neighbours before the imaginary continuous distribu
tion was made. Thus, while the adoption of a fixed upper
limit in the integrations, independent of the distance between
a molecule and its neighbours, is only in strict accordance
with the first express stipulation, the fixing of the lower limit
of the last integration as independent of that distance is an
additional condition of the first importance. Of course, within
such range of values as experiments permit, the integral may
be independent of variations in the true small lower limit; but
the fact must not be lost sight of that, when we assume this to
be the case, we are tacitly stipulating for another special
property for the unknown function /.

116                Mr. W. Sutherland on the
   Let us obtain general expressions for the potential energy
which the molecules in unit mass of a single chemical sub
stance possess by virtue of their mutual attractions, and also for
the virial of these attractions. Let mm'tf>(r) be the potential
energy of two molecules, then d<f>(r) — —f{r)dr. For the
potential energy of the molecules in unit mass and for the
virial of their attractions, we shall have the expressions
222>2</> W and 2 • 222wV(r)> tne double 2 relating to the
two distinct summations that have to be performed, and the
£ being introduced as a factor to neutralize the effect of
counting twice each pair of molecules as acting on one
another, in the process of summation.
   To obtain values for these sums in the form of integrals we
have to imagine the matter of the molecules as uniformly
spread throughout the space in which they are distributed.
If there are n molecules in a space v, then ^ is the volume of
a space which we will call the domain of a molecule, to dis
tinguish it from the spatial extension of the molecule, and
from what is often called its sphere of action. To find the
boundaries of a domain, let us imagine at any moment the
distribution of the molecules to be uniform, and that the
matter of each expands out in the form of a sphere, the rate
of expansion being the same for all. Let them finally press
upon one another like plastic expanding bodies, until no
portion of the space is unoccupied by matter ; then the whole
space is divided into n polyhedra, of which each is the domain
of a molecule.       Imagine the matter of one polyhedron
 gathered into its centre, then, by drawing matter uniformly
 from the continuous mass, and building it up round the faces
 of the polyhedron so as to form a spherical cavity, or, if neces
 sary, by cutting matter away from the faces of the polyhedron
 and distributing it uniformly throughout the continuous mass,
 we can finally, with only an infinitesimal alteration of the
 density of the continuous mass, form a continuous mass round
 any molecule gathered into the centre of its domain ; so that
 the potential energy of the molecule and of the continuous
 mass so formed is the same as that of the molecule and all
 the other original molecules. The radius a of the spherical
 domain thus defined is then the lower limit to be used in the
 desired integrals. The upper limit is the length L already
 defined.
    With a molecule m as centre describe a spherical shell of
 radius r and thickness dr; let p be the density of the continu
 ously distributed matter, which, of course, is the same as that
 of the original molecular distribution, then the potential

                    Law of Molecular Force.                    117
energy of m and the shell is
                          47rmprs$(r)cZr,
and the potential energy of the whole continuous mass and
the molecule m is
                          n.
                             iTrmpr*<p(r)dr,
                        f
neglecting, in accordance with the definition of L, the action
on m of all molecules beyond the surface of the sphere of
radius L.
   For the virial of the forces acting between m and all the
other molecules, we have
                                       r)dr.
   Summing these two expressions for the n molecules and
dividing each by 2, we get results which do more than repre
sent the sums ^22»ia£(r) and £ . ^SnPrfir), as each in
cludes the action of the n molecules on a layer of molecules of
thickness L added over the whole surface S. If, then, v\n the
volume occupied by the n molecules, the number of molecules
in the layer is — . n.       If, then, we imagine a layer of thick
ness L removed from the surface of the actual body, and sum
                                                (LS\
                                                 1   —J molecules
remaining, we shall obtain two sums too small to represent the
 desired sums, seeing that the mutual actions of the molecules
 in the layer removed will not be taken into account. Thus,
 the whole potential energy of the molecules lies between
                                 fL
                       2"7Tmnp\ r9<p(r)dr,
                                 ja
 and
                  2irn |^1 —              r*<p(r)dr,
 and may be represented by
                 27rn^l — d^^Jmp^ r*<p(r)dr,
 where 0 is a proper fraction.
    The term involving S plays an important part in the theory
 of capillary action ; but for our present purpose we may
 neglect it in comparison with the other term, if we make the
  assumption usual in capillary theory that the smallest value

118                 Mr. W. Sutherland on the
which it is permissible to take for L is negligible in com
parison with the dimensions of experimental bodies.
   Noticing that nm is the mass of the whole body, which we
assume to be unity, wo get for the potential energy of the n
molecules,
and for the virial of their forces,
                             Ja
   Now if (as Laplace does in his expression for the attraction
of a thud on a column) we were to replace a and L in the two
integrals by 0 and co , we should make the two integrals con
stants, and we should have the potential energy of the mole
cules of a body and the virial of their attractions both
proportional directly to its density, or inversely to its
volume, whatever the law of force might be, so long as it
satisfied the assumed conditions. But the highly artificial
character of these conditions becomes evident if we consider
how the true lower limit a was obtained, and how it must be
a function of the distance between a molecule and its nearest
neighbours, and therefore of f; a natural assumption is that
a is approximately proportional to y/ v. Now in the treat
ment usual in capillary theory, the above integrals would be
supposed to vanish at their upper limits, so that their values
depend entirely on the values at the lower limit; before, then,
we can treat the integrals as constants, we have to give <f>(r)
and /(?¦) a certain special property.
   It is easy now to see that </>(?') cannot bo of the form
if it is to possess this property, unless when the series takes
the form -j, which corresponds to the law of the inverse
fourth power of the distance; for, assuming <f>{r) to be expres
sible as such a series, and integrating the expression for the
potential energy, we get
It is obvious that we cannot admit any exponent such as mor
n to be less than 3, or we should have a part of the expression

                       Law of Molecular Force.                  119
for the potential energy increasing with the upper limit L,
which is opposed to the fundamental hypothesis of the theory
of molecular force, assumed in the definition of L. For values
of m or n greater than 3, the terms involving L become
negligible in comparison with those involving a, and the
potential energy is expressible as 2irp multiplied by a series
of inverse powers of a ; but a is a function of v, so that if the
series is finite, the potential energy cannot vary inversely
as v.
    If, however, the series reduces to the single term ^j, then
the potential energy becomes
                             27rpA log-,
 which, remembering that ^ is a very large number, we see
 to be independent of variations of a within the range of pre
 sent experimental possibilities.
     Thus, then, it is established that tbe only law of force ex
 pressible by a finite series of inverse powers of r which is
 consistent with the variation of molecular potential energy of
 a body inversely as its volume is the law of the inverse fourth
 power. The same statement holds as regards variation of the
 virial of the molecular force inversely as the volume. When
                        <U+2666><*)-¦»          =%
 and the value of the virial becomes
                             37T/3A.log^.
     To show the relation between the general expressions for the
  potential energy and virial, let us integrate the latter by parts,
  remembering that
                     f{r)dr— —d(<p)r,
            irp\ r3f(r)dr= — irp \ i^dcpir)
               Ja                   Ja
                           = [ - w/jr^r)] J + 37rj0JL?^(r)^.
  According to the treatment usual in the theory of capillary
  action, the first term of the last expression would be shown to
  vanish, because <£(L) is negligible; and in the lower limit, when
  a is replaced by 0, the term 03$(0) is assumed to vanish, as it

  120                 Mr. W. Sutherland on the
  is stipulated that $(0) must be finite. On these assumptions
  the virial of the molecular forces is found to bo § of the
  potential energy of the molecules—the same ratio as follows
  from the law of the inverse fourth power without assump
  tion.
     Thus, then, if we proceed to deduce from experimental data
  the value of the potential energy of the molecules of a body
  and the value of the virial of the molecular forces, and prove
  the latter to be \ of the former, we shall have obtained weighty
  confirmation of the Kinetic Theory of Matter and of the idea
  of the action of molecules on one another as centres of force,
  but wo shall possess no absolute test between the law of the
  inverse fourtli power and any one of the unknown number of
  unknown laws satisfying the conditions that they can be ex-
   ressed by some function f(r), insensible for sensible values of r
   ut sensible for insensible values of r, yet incapable of expres
 sion as a finite series of inverse powers of r ; and, further, that
f(r) must be such that j r3f(r)dr and 1 r* I f(r)dr are both
 unaltered by variations in a, while a3\ f(r)dr is negligible in
 comparison with I r2 1 f(r)dr; but such an absolute test will
 hardly be required to distinguish between the nearness to the
truth of the simple and natural and of the elaborate and
artificial.
    In order to find whether the virial of the molecular forces
 of a body does actually vary inversely as its volume, it is
necessary to construct empirical equations for the relations
between pressure, volume, and temperature found experi
mentally for different fluids, and then to compare them with
Clausius's fundamental equation of the virial as applied to
the Kinetic Theory of Gases,
               §jw=i 2 rnV2 + i • i 22 mV/(r).
The double sum in this equation as often written is multiplied
by only one factor       the other being understood to be con
tained in the meaning of the symbol of summation.
    If, then, the virial of the molecular forces of all bodies is
to vary inverselv as the volume occupied by them, we must
always find in tlieir characteristic equations for pv a term in
dependent of the temperature and varying inversely as the
specific volume. Van der Waals, who endeavoured to apply
this idea of the construction of characteristic equations on the

                     Law of Molecular Force.                    121
one type to be studied in the light of the equation of the
virial, was led by certain theoretical views to consider that
the term, independent of temperature, should have the form
     «   •  But the equations constructed on this principle
were found applicable within only a narrow range of tem
perature and pressure. Now, before any definite conclusions
can be drawn from the forms of the terms in an empirical
equation, that equation must be proved to hold over a very
wide range of values of the variables in it. A brief comparison
 which I will give below of the different types of equation that
 have been constructed for gases, and of the different inter
 pretations that have been given to their forms, will show the
 necessity for this condition of wide applicability in an equation.
    To find whether the virial of the molecular forces of a body
 varies inversely as its volume, I resolved to seek for empirical
 equations to represent the splendid series of experimental
 results that Amagat has published for several gases (Ann. de
 Chvm. et de Phys. 5 serie, xxii.). In order to be able to
 compare molecular potential energy and virial, I constructed
 the characteristic equation for G03 first, because Thomson
 and Joule's experiments on the expansion of C02 through
 porous plugs, and Regnault's experiments on expansion of
 COj, give no data for finding its molecular potential energy.
 In view of the great importance of the deductions to be drawn
 from the form of the equation, it seemed to me to bo absolutely
  necessary that it should represent not only the whole range of
 Amagatfs experiments, which extend from pressures of about
  40 atmospheres to pressures of 400, and from a temperature
  of 18° to 100° C, but also such independent experimental
 data as are available. The search proved to be a sufficiently
  laborious one.
    The form of equation which Rankine adopted to represent
 the result of Regnault's experiments on the compressibility
  and dilatation of air and COj may be taken as the point of
 departure of certain more recent formulas. It was (Phil.
 Trans. 1854, p. 336) :—
                     ^=A(274 + <)-I^LF
 where t represents temperature Centigrade. Thomson and
  Joule, by the direct integration of the differential equation
  expressing their approximate empirical law, that the fall of
  temperature of a gas escaping through a plug from a region
  of onu pressure to a region of another is proportional directly
  to the difference of pressure and inversely to the square of the

122                  Mr. W. Sutherland on the
absolute temperature of the gas, were led to the form
where 0 is temperature on Thomson's absolute thermo
dynamic scale, given within ordinary experimental limits by
the equation             0= 273-7 -M.
If, in the small second term, we consider that p <x —, the
equation takes Rankine's form—
                        Pv = A0-0v
   If T represents temperature, measured from the absolute zero
of an air-thermometer, on which the temperature of melting
ice is supposed to bo 273°, then within ordinary ranges of
temperature we can put 0 = T+A, the value of A being "7,
as determined by Thomson and Joule (" Thermal Effects of
Fluids in Motion," part iv., Phil. Trans. 18G2). With 0 ex-
pressed in terms of T, Thomson and Joule's equation becomes
                      »i'=AT + AA— 7p->
where the occurrence of the small constant term AA is of
great importance in thermodynamic and molecular theory.
    Him*, by his thermodynamic ideas, was led to the con
clusion that the equation of a body in any state could be
obtained by generalizing the equation to a perfect gas ; thus,
                       (p+R)(«-f)=AT.
 R is a term resulting from the molecular attractions, and is
called by Hirn the internal pressure. He determines it for
different substances as a function of the volume, involving
two constants and yfr, which he calls the atomic volume, and
takes as representing the actual spatial extension of the mole
 cules whose united domains form the volume v.
    Athanase Dupre was the first writer, to my knowledge,
 who endeavoured to show the bearings of Laplace's ideas of
 molecular forces on the form of characteristic equations and
 to apply them. Let <fi(v, t) bo the potential energy {travail
micanique interne) of the molecules of a body whose volume
is v at temperature t. Then it follows from Laplace's theorj',
with the assumptions involved in it, that <f>(i',t) varies
   * " Th^orie Mecanique de la Chaleur," Ann. dc Ch. et de Ph. 4 s^rie, xi.

                     Law of Molecular Force.                    123
inversely as v when t is constant ; so that we may put
In his " Troisieme M<5moire sur la Th^orie M^canique de la
Chaleur,"* Dupre obtains an equation which may be written
             t      +          ftp        v + yfr       v*
yjr is a constant for each substance, which he calls its covoluine.
The amount of experimental data in existence did not admit
of any adequate testing of this type of equation.
    These forms all belong to a period prior to the publication
of Olausius's theorem of the virial ; and they were constructed
and studied almost entirely for thermodynamical purposes.
But since the kinetic theory has been strengthened by that
theorem, much encouragement has been given to regard the
characteristic equation rather from the molecular point of
view. Van der Waals, whose work I know only through a
resume' (Wiedemann's Beibltitter, i. p. 10), starting from the
equation of the virial, and applying Laplace's theory of mo
 lecular force in evaluating the virial, arrives at an equation
 similar both to Dupre's and to Hirn's j except that the R in
 Hirn's formula is made to vary inversely as the square of the
 volume, or the f(t) of Dupre's is reduced to a constant. His
 method of evaluating the virial of the internal forces is as
 follows :—
    All round the surface of a body we can imagine a layer, of
 thickness L, isolated, where L is the distance at which the
 action of two molecules on one another becomes negligible :
 then if we disregard for the moment the forces which act be
 tween the remainder of the body and the layer, and the mutual
 actions of the molecules of the layer, we see that the virial of
 the remaining molecular forces vanishes, because for every
 force acting on a given molecule which has a component X,
 there is another force whose component in the same direction
 is — X ; hence the only parts of the whole virial
                       -^(Xx + Yy + Zz)
 which it is necessary to take account of are those arising from
 the actions of the inner molecules on the outside layer and the
 part arising from the actions amongst themselves of the mo
 lecules of the layer. But this last part is negligible in com
 parison with the virial of all the forces at play in the whole
 body ; so that the virial of all the mutual attractions of the
                * Ann. de Ch. et de Ph. 4 s<5rie, iv. (1865).

124                 Mr. W. Sutherland on the
molecules of the body reduces to that part due to action be
tween the layer and the matter it encloses. Now the resultant
attraction of the enclosed mass on a portion of the layer whose
surface is unity is Kps, where K is Laplace's constant and p
is the density of the body : hence the internal virial will have
the same value as if it arose from a pressure Kp*, which Van
der Waals calls the molecular pressure. According to the
usual method of estimating the virial pressure over a closed
surface, we find that the virial of the internal forces is |Kp9«,
and thus the equation of the virial becomes
                     £2mV2=§(p + KpV
Van der Waals then argues that the external pressure p which
the containing wall exerts on a mass of gas depends on the
number of collisions which it experiences in unit time ; and
he finds that, on the elastic-sphere theory of molecules, if the
spatial extension of all the molecules in volume V is bu then
the number of collisions per unit time against the walls will
be greater than if the molecules were points with the same
mass and moving with the same velocity in the ratio -—
and the pressure will be correspondingly increased. Hence,
according to Van der Waals, wo must correct the previous
equation to the form
                   iSmV^Kp + Kp'Xu-i),
where b represents 46,. He then assumes that ^2mV9 is
always directly proportional to the temperature as measured
absolutely on the air-thermometer, and reduces the above to
his typical form
                   (p + ^)(v-b) = R(l+at).
Whatever may be the value of the reasoning by which this
 form has been derived from the equation of the virial, there
is no doubt about the service which it has done in Van der
Waals's hands to the cause of molecular science ; but the
equation as it stands has been found wanting when applied to
any series of experiments with a wide range of pressure and
temperature.
   To meet the deficiencies in it, Clausius (Wiedemann's
Ann. ix. 1879) constructed the form
                        _ RT           C
which is evidently derived from Rankine's form with two

                     Law of Molecular Force.                           125
new constants added to widen its scope.               In this formula
Clausing regards     ^   —    g as representing the virial of the
internal forces, and considers that Van der Waals's formula is
defective because it fails to take account of the dependence
of the virial of the molecular forces on temperature. He
draws a contrast between the perfect gaseous state and the
liquid state : in the former the molecules are under one
another's influence during only a short time compared to the
time of traversing the free path, while in the latter it is only
exceptionally that a molecule escapes from the influence of its
neighbours. The state of an actual gas is supposed to lie
between these two extremes ; and Clausius contemplates in an
actual gas the occurrence of collisions, after which the pair of
colliding molecules do not separate but travel along together,
oscillating opposite one another. The lower the temperature
the larger will be the number of such pairs, and the greater
will be the mean value of the attractions, seeing that the
molecules which remain togetber attract one another more
powerfully on account of their greater proximity. Accord
ingly, the term which in the characteristic equation represents
the mutual attractions must be assumed to increase with
falling temperature. This is Olausius's argument for showing
that the variation of the internal virial inversely as the tem
perature is not merely a matter of pure convenience in his
empirical formula, but is probably a fact in nature. I have
 reproduced it at some length, because not only has he applied
his formula to C02, but also Sarrau ( Comptes Rendus, xciv.)
has shown that it can represent well the behaviour of H, N,
 0, CH4, C2H4 in Amagat's experiments within certain limits.
 Now, while Clausius's argument can readily be admitted as
 showing the possibility of a certain dependence of the internal
 virial on temperature, it gives no clue to what we may call the
 amount of that dependence. It seems to me that it must
 really be negligible, or, at all events, if we regard the molecular
 attractions of gaseous C02 as the residuum at comparatively
 great molecular distances of the forces which constitute the
 cohesion of liquid and solid C02, we can hardly, from what we
 know of the molecular forces involved in elasticity, imagine that
 their effect in the virial should be so profoundly dependent on
 temperature as it would be if the forces themselves actually
 varied inversely as the temperature. In a subsequent attempt*
 to apply his form to ether and water, Clausius has found it
 necessary to replace ^ in the virial term of the above equation
 * Wiedemann's Ann. xiv. 1881, and Ann. dc Ch. et de Ph. 5 eerie, xxx. 1883

126                 Mr. W. Sutherland on the
by a function involving three constants, so that his equation
takes the complicated form
                       ^ _1        AT-"-B
                   RT v-a           (v + /3f '
    Sarrau (Co7nptes Rendus, ci.) has modified the form of
Clausius's equation for C02, and introduced another constant e,
thus :—
                         JT _ Ke~T
                    P v-a         {v + $f'
but even this form, he finds, fails to represent the behaviour
of C02 when its volume is reduced to less than             of the
normal volume, which at the lower temperatures (40° C.)
corresponds to a pressure of about 80 metres of mercury, while
Amagat's experiments extend to 320 metres.
    The last formula to be mentioned is that of Dr. Walter
(Wiedemann's Ann. xvi. 1882)—
                      (p+f)ve-' = $kT,
where e is the base of the natural logarithms and yS and/ are
functions of the temperature, left undefined. In a somewhat
similar manner to Van der Waals, he argues, to give a meaning
to his term e      that it represents a correction which it is
necessary to make in the equation of the virial on account of
the mutual impenetrability of the molecules. And this brings
us to an important point. The equation of the virial does not
require any correction.       It expresses a perfectly general
dynamical theorem as to the relation between the mean trans-
latory kinetic energy of any system of bodies in stationary
motion and the forces at play among them, and applies as
rigorously to a system of extended bodies as to a system of
ideal extensionless particles. When the equation of the virial
 is applied to a number of molecules of a gas confined in vessel
 of volume v, \pv represents the virial of the pressure applied
 all over the surface, and is perfectly independent of what
 mechanical arrangement there may be inside to influence the
 number of collisions, so long as the motion is stationary. The
 ideas of Van der Waals and Dr. Walter affect profoundly the
 interpretation which is to be given to a characteristic equation,
 and, if proved by their application to be correct, would upset
 the kinetic theory.
    H. A. Lorentz (Wiedemann's Ann. xii.), accepting Van der
 Waals's equation as an empirically good one, suggests (but
does not press the suggestion) that at low densities the term

                      Law of Molecular Force.                    127
involving b might be taken as representing the virial of the
repulsive forces that are supposed to act during the collisions
of molecules. This opens up the whole of the important
question of the repulsive forces or of the elastic properties
usually assigned to molecules ; and this is the part of the
kinetic theory in its actual state least satisfactory to the earnest
natural philosopher. Sir William Thomson only gave expres
sion to the aspirations which his development of the gyrostatic
principle and its attendant speculations on " Elasticity a mode
of Motion " have awakened in the minds of physicists for some
means of escape from those highly artificial conceptions of the
classical elasticians of laws of force changing from attraction
to repulsion, which still survive in the idea of an elastic mole
cule, when, in his address to the Mathematical and Physical
section at the Montreal meeting of the British Association
(Nature, vol. xxx. 1884), he sketched the possibility of apparent
repulsion through attraction. If, therefore, we can prove that
molic force is always attractive, an important step will be
gained towards homogeneity in our conceptions ot force in
nature, and there will be only the one general specific pro
perty of attraction to explain by the ultimate theory of mole
cular structure, which will account for the action of molecule
on molecule. At first sight it might appear as if the very form
of the equation of the virial, as applied in the kinetic theory
 of gases, militated against the elimination of repulsive forces;
 for the term § £>y, which represents the virial of the applied
 pressure, must, on a theory of pure attraction, really be con
 sidered as representing the virial of the attractions of the
 molecules of the bounding walls on the molecules inside. Now
 the pressure, whatever its origin, is equivalent to a repulsive
 action from the walls on the fluid insido ; so that we have to
 face the apparent contradiction of the virial of attractive forces
 between two sets of molecules being replaceable by the virial
 of an imaginary repulsion between them. But to avoid this
 difficulty, we have only to make the conception, which in
 itself will be found an important one in Physics and Che
 mistry, that the surface-molecules of two bodies in contact
 always penetrate amongst one another. Let us see the bearing
 of this idea on the determination of the virial of the attractions
 of the molecules of a body B on the molecules of a fluid A
 bounded by B. If a molecule of A gets to the far side of a
 molecule of B, the attraction on it will be in the same sense
 as that in which we usually consider the pressure to act; when
 the molecule of A is on the near side of a molecule of B, the
 attraction on it is in the opposite sense. The value of the virial
of the action of the molecules of B on those of A depends,

128                 Mr. W. Sutherland on the
therefore, entirely on the average relative positions of the
molecules of A to those of B in the mixed transition-layer
between pure A and pure B. It may be negative or it may
be positive, or it may be zero. The distinction between
pressure and tension in the action of one body on another
represents a difference in the interlinkings of the orbits of the
surface molecules. The ordinary idea, that the pressure of a
fluid is due to repulsive actions during molecular impact, is
not competent to explain the tension that must act between
the top portion of the mercury and the glass, when the column
of mercury in a barometric tube is got to fill the tube and
stand at a height above that which corresponds to the atmo
spheric pressure. A great array of facts supports the general
idea of the mingling of molecules at the surface of contact of
two bodies ; for example, such an action as the rusting of iron
suggests the penetration of oxygen atoms to great molecular
depths; while Spring's experiments on chemical combination,
produced merely by the application of powerful pressure to
mixed powders of different elements, demonstrate molecular
interpenetration of bodies in a striking manner. Under
powerful enough pressure, a granule of sulphur and a granule
of load diffuse into one another and combine as completely as
if their molecules had the freedom of the gaseous state.
   Amagat (Ann. de Chim. et de Phys. 5 serie, xxviii.) gives,
as a general result of his experimental studies, that at a given
volume the rate of variation of the pressure of a gas with
temperature is constant ; and Ramsay and Young (Nature,
13th Jan. 1887) have announced the same fact in connexion
with their studies of the vapours of ethylic alcohol, other, and
methylic alcohol. Stating this result symbolically, we have
                     J? -A*
and integrating,
a type to which Van der Waals's equation belongs, but not
Rankine's or Clausius's. But this result is only a first
approximation for C03, as a close study of Amagat's numbers
for C02 shows; while Andrews has arranged his later experi
mental determinations (Phil. Trans. 1875) to bring out the
variation of ^ with temperature in a marked manner.
               Of
Thus ^ is not a function of volume only, but varies slowly
with temperature, and Van der Waals's form of equation

                      Law of Molecular Force.               129
cannot represent the actual facts. No series of experiments has
yet been conducted over a range sufficiently wide and accurately
enough to enable us to determine           in a useful manner ;
so that, without a guiding hypothesis, the search for a suitable
form to give the right nuances to      would be a very difficult
matter. As I wished to construct an equation to test the law
of the inverse fourth power, it was necessary for me to assume
F(r) in the above equation to be of the form -5, where I is a
constant independent of the temperature, and to take as the
general type of my equation,
                         p»=TA*,T)-i-
    The approximate determination of I is an easy matter ; but
 the determination conjointly of the final accurate value of l}
 and of the simplest form of the function f of two variables
 applicable to the experimental facts, is exceedingly difficult;
 After a prolonged trial of many different forms, 1 was led to
 adopt that given by Dr. Walter, but with his functions /Sand
/determined to be of the forms —r=, and I— cT for COj j thus
                                   v 1
                     p,-(J* + 1)1-1
 where e is the base of the natural logarithms, T the tempera
 ture reckoned on the air-thermometer from absolute zero, and
 a, b, c, I are four constants having the following values :—
    I. When the unit of pressure is that of a kilogramme weight
 per square metre, and the unit of volume is a cubic metre (v
 being the volume of a kilogramme of C02),
       a=19-257, 6=-02785, c=-038577, 2=35-327.
    II. When the unit of pressure is that of one atmosphere,
 and the unit of volume is that volume which the mass of gas
 considered occupies at 0° C. and under a pressure of one
 atmosphere,
    a=-0036976, &=-0552, c=-000014666, Z=-01343.
    As Amagat measured volumes in a unit suitable to the cir
 cumstances of his experiments, but has not given its value, I
 have calculated it to be g^-jy of that volume which the mass
  of gas experimented on would have occupied at 0° 0. and
  760 millim. pressure.
    Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 24. No. 146. July 1887.         K

   130                      Mr. W. Sutherland on the
     . In order to compare the equation with the results of An
   drews's experiments as Wei! as with those of Amagat, I have
   converted Andrews's pressures (which are given in air-
   manometer atmospheres, i. e. which are calculated from the
   indications of an air-manometer on the assumption that air
   obeys the Boyle-Mariotte law) into pressures in metres of
   mercury, by means of the data for air at 16°, published by
   Amagat (Comptes Rendus, xcix. 1884). The temperature of
   the air-manometer varied in Andrews's experiments : thus,
   in the 35°5 series it was about 16°, in the (34 series it was 9°,
   and in the 100° series about 6° ; but I have assumed it in all
   cases to be 16°. To convert Andrews's pressures, which are
   greater than 65 metres of mercury, the greatest in Amagat's
   air-determinations, I have had to use Amagat's determinations
   for nitrogen at 170-7* with such a correction as the difference
   in the behaviour of air and nitrogen at lower pressures sug
   gests. In order to compare Amagat's results with those of
   Andrews at the temperatures of 35°-5 C, 64°, and 100°, we
   must regard his series at35c"l as taken at 350,5, and we must
   interpolate for the 64° series from his series for 60° and 70°.
   This I have done for the construction of the subjoined table,
   in which the top row of figures contains the volumes to which
   unit volume at 0° and 760 millim. is reduced, and the suc
   cessive rows contain the corresponding pressures in metres
   of mercury as given by Andrews, by Amagat, and by the
   equation.
                                  COs at 100° C.
                         ¦07628 •04158 02712 01422 •00625 ¦00359 •00293 •00264
Pressure, Andrews ... 1315 2333 34-36 59 77 110 53           1780
    „     Amagat                       34-30 59-20 109-40    175-0 236-5  303-0
          equation . . . 1318 23-42 34-44 00-00 109-63       176-7 241-6  301-5
                                    COs at 64° G.
                         ¦06671 •03560 02 64 01083 00377 ¦00277 00235 •00226
Pressure, Andrews ... 13-28 2358 34-79 60-40 110-6 1780
    „     Amagat                       34 80 60-20 1080 1640       272 0 3200
    „     equation ... 13-34 23-78 3507 60-22 1030 169-6           278-5 318-8
                  * Ann. de Cliim. et de Phya. 6 ser, vol. xxii.

                             Law ofMolecular Force.                  131
                                  C02 at 35°-5 0.
                        01368 00496 00303 00263 00235 •002082 002073 002053
Pressure, Andrews . . . 4240 60-64 6667 8096
                        4280 61 00 70-00 91-00 140                    320
    „     equation ... 4329 53-34 67-57 106-80 176     314-5     320  338
                                    C02 at 6°-9 C        at 13° C.
                                     ¦07921     ¦02589      •01377
           Pressure, Andrews ...      908        23-35       35-42
               „     equation ...     9-19       23-86       3686
       It will be seen that the results of the two experimenters
   for 100° agree well with one another, and that the equation
   represents them satisfactorily ; and the same may be said of
    the results for 64°, except that Andrews's pressure of 178
   metres for volume '00277 is in remarkable disagreement with
   Amagat's number 164. There is room for an error in my
   correction of Andrews's air-manometer pressure ; but we see
   that the error must be small, for the same pressure receiving
    the same correction when it corresponds to volume "00309 at
    100° is brought into good harmony with Amagat's number
   and with the equation. Thus we receive a first evidence of
    the discrepancies to be encountered in a more formidable
    manner when we study the numbers for 3o°-5. Here, at
    comparatively large volumes, the discrepancies between equa
    tion and experiment are sufficiently striking, but hardly moro
    startling than the difference between the two experimenters'
    results. The magnitude of these differences perplexed me for
    a long time, and I could assign or imagine no adequate cause
    for them until, by the discovery that the usually assigned
    critical temperature of C02 (31° C.) is too low by more than
   10°, I was led to see that capillary action exercises a profound
   disturbing action on the relations of pressure, volume, and
   temperature of a fluid in the neighbourhood of the critical
    state. As both Andrews's and Amagat's experiments were
   conducted in capillary tubes, we can see in the difference of
    their tubes a reason for the difference in their results. I may
   mention that the serious discrepancies between the results of
   the two experimenters and of the equation are confined to the
   neighbourhood of the pressures for which pv is a minimum ;

 132                  Mr. W. Sutherland on the
at points remote from that the agreem3nt is good : thus, at
volume "002053 Ara:igat's experimantal pressure is 320 metres
 of mercury, while the equation gives 338. The difference
between the two results is seen to be negligible if we look at
 it in another light. Thus, for a pressure of 320 metres of
mercury the equation gives a volume "002073, which differs by
 only 1 per cent, from Amagat's measurement for the same
 pressure—a difference quite within the present limits of expe
 rimental error in the measurement of small volumes at high
pressures.
    Let us now proceed to the important question of the true
critical temperature of C02. The critical temperature, volume,
and pressure are determined by the characteristic equation,
and the two equations
                        §P = 0   and   |^=0,
which may be written
             r=T^+-JJ>                                          0)
             °=-^(,+^)^-2^'                           •  •  •  «
                  » \     v vT    trl/          tr             v '
Eliminating the exponential factor from (2) and (3), we get
                     V,   V y"jy       v y'T v*L
           .-.                 1=0.
    Considering that VT must be taken with a positive sign,
only the positive root of this equation for ^    ^ is permissible,
and we have at the critical state
                         VT       2~ ~/S 7'
and eliminating v between this and (2) we get
                  0=aT (l+/K + 2/C-^VT,
               .-. 0 = 2/C/+aVT(l+/>/-2//,

                        Law of Molecular Force.                 133
  a quadrate equntion for the square root of the critical tempe
  rature, of which the physically permissible root is
                 -a(l +/)ef+\/ [a(l +/VP + W* ¦ n
         VT=                                                -•
  Substituting the numerical values of all the constants, w©
 find
                   T=315°-8, and f=42°-8 C.
  Thus the critical temperature given b}r the equation is 42p>r3;«
 instead of 31° as found by Andrews in his experiments- with
  capillary tubes. The equation gives the critical volume- of a
 kilogramme of C02 as "00253(5 cubic metres, or ¦OOSOUt! of
 that volume occupied by the gas at 0° C. and 760 raillim.,
 and the critical pressure as 849700 kilogrammes weight per •
 square metre, or 82'23 atmospheres, or 62-5 metres af,m<ir-<-v
 cury. Andrews found the critical pressure in his tubes -itf 'be '
 something about 75 or 77 atmospheres.
     As 1 deemed it indispensable that the characteristic -equa-"
 tion should give with great accuracy the numerics, of the
 critical state before any sound conclusions could be drawn from
 its form as to the internal virial, these discrepancies-- caused
 me to abandon the above equation for many months, during
 which I tried, by variations in the values of the constants, and
 by variations in the whole form, to get a reasonably simple '
 equation that would represent Amagat's experimental results,-
 and at the same time give the critical temperature as 31° 0. ;:
but with many forms, involving a larger number of constants,
 I always found that if Amagat's numbers for 100° and 70° were1
 represented accurately in their whole range, a critical tem
perature markedly above 31° was obtained. At length, in the
hope of getting a further clue to the proper form of equation,
I looked up llegnault's data for the saturation-pressures of "
 C02 at different temperatures*, and found that he declares
 explicitly that at 42° C. he had liquid C02. His words are: —
" Enfin par la quantite d'acide carbonique que Ton fait sortir
de l'appareil a la fin des experiences on a reconnu que meme
a. la temperature de 42° il devait restcr encore beaucoup.
d'acide carbonique liquide." The pressure of saturation,)
which he gives for 42° 5 C. is 61067 millim. of mercury ; a,,
number in good agreement with the critical pressure of 62'a
metres of mercury determined above by the equation as cor
responding to a critical temperature of 42°"8 0.
   * " Forces elastiques de? vapeurs," Mhnoires de I'Academe, xxvi.
p. Clri.

134                Notices respecting New Boohs.
   Now Rognault's experiments were conducted on a large
quantity of C02 quite removed from capillary influences, so
that there is no difficulty in understanding the reason-for the
apparent conflict of his result with those of Andrews. The
true critical temperature of C02 was near 420-5 C. ; Andrews
had found the critical temperature of C02 when enclosed in a
certain capillary tube to be 31°, a temperature which depends
on the tube.
                           [To be continued.]
                XIV. Notices respecting New Books.
Metretil-e : or, the Method of Measuring Probability and Utility.
   Jiu F. Y. Eduewobth, M.A. (Loudon, The Temple Company ;
   68 pp.)
IN this pamphlet Prof. Edgeworth, as per his Table of Contents,
      discusses " The relation of the Calculus of Probabilities to
the Philosophy of Utility is partly (i) of Similarity (pp. 1-52);
partly (ii) of Identity (pp. 52-56).
   " (I.) Similarity exists both (A) as to the methods of calculation
and (B) as to the problems proposed.
   " (A) The similarity is contemplated under five headings, consti
tuted each by the introduction of an attribute, which tends to render
the calculation inexact (pp. 1-50). Under each of these headings
it is argued that there have been granted to the Calculus of Proba
bilities postulates analogous to those which the Calculation of Utility
requires to be granted.
    " (B) The canons of Belief and Conduct are of similar origin and
authority (pp. 50-52).
    " (IT.) The Theory of Errors, inasmuch as, philosophically, the
quasitum is rather the ' most advantageous ' than the most probable
 combination of the given observations, involves the principle of
 Utility (pp. 52-56)."
    Then follow two appendices, " On the Method of Least Squares"
 (pp. 57-06), and " A List of Cognate Writings, bv the same Author "
     67). of these papers are already familiar, or, at any rate, known,
 (p.Many
 to our readers, as they have been printed in the ' Philosophical
 Magazine ' at varying dates, from Oct.. 1883 to quite a recent issue
 in the present year ; others, whose titles are given, are on their way.
 The Author touches on many themes, and it goes without saying
 that there is much matter furnished for careful reading and weighing.
 Appendix I. may be commended to our mathematical readtrs, as
 containing an interesting account and discussion of the Method of
 Least Squares.

                                [   135    ]
               XV. Proceedings of Learned Societies.
                         GEOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
                   [Continued from vol. xxiii. p. 468.]
       February 9, 1887.—Prof. J. W. Judd, F.R.S., President,
                              in the Chair.
T^HE following communications were read :—
      1. " Evidence of Glacial Action in the Carboniferous and Hawkes-
burv Series, New South Wales." By T. W. Edgworth David, Esq.,
F.G.S.
   After giving a tabular statement of the sequence of rocks connected
with the coal-bearing beds in New South Wales, the Author passed
in review the notices by previous observers of glacial action in the
Carboniferous beds of that country, terminating with the discovery
by Mr. B. D.Oldham of polished and striated boulders in fossiliferous
marine beds of Carboniferous age at Branxton. The author had since
found another oxtensive deposit of similar beds at Grass-tree near
Musekbrook, 28 miles N.W. of Branxton, and described the section
there exposed in a railway-cutting. A fine calcareous sandy shale,
reddish to greenish brown in colour, was crowded with round and
subangular fragments of rock, from pebbles no larger than marbles
up to a third of a ton in weight. The surfaces of these fragments
were in many cases ground and scratched. The parent rock of some
of the boulders was 30 miles distant.
    The evidence of ice-action in the Triassic Hawkesbury series was
 also described. This evidence was twofold, and consisted of the
 disrupted angular fragments of shale first observed by Mr. Wilkin
 son, and of contemporaneously contorted current-bedding, of which
no account had previously been published. The contortions were
 represented on a diagram, and attributed to a lateral thrust such as
 would be produced by the grounding of floating ice.
    The discovery by Mr. Wilkinson of polished and striated boulders
 in some gold-bearing conglomerates believed to be of Siluro-Dovo-
nian age was also noticed.
   2. " The Terraces of Botomahana, New Zealand." By Josiah
Martin, Esq., F.G.S.
    The Author, after deploring the recent calamity, proceeded to de
 scribe the White Terrace. Its origin, the Terata Geyser, was situated
 in a crater-like escarpment near the centre of a conical hill of
 steamingand partiullydecomposed felspathic tuff on the south-east side
 of the warm lake, Botomahana. The Terrace was divided into :—
    1. The Upper Terrace, with its long horizontal lines of cups,
 steaming and overflowing with hot water.
    2. The Middle Terrace, with its massive steps and shaggy fringes,
 without basins or receptacles for the overflow.
    3. The Lower Plateau, a series of shallow basins and wide, level
 platforms.
    The great cauldron and the action of the Geyser were described
 in much detail. The following analysis of the water was given in
 yrains prr gallon.

   136                      Geological Society : —
             Silica, freo and combined with soda             50
             Sodium and potassium chlorides . .            . 60
             Alkalies, chiefly soda                          30
             Sodium sulphate, ifcc                           1.0
                   Total                                   150
     The amount of rock-material withdrawn in solution would amount
• to about 1 0 tons per day ; observations lead to the conclusion that
  10 per cent, of the silica would be deposited on tbo surface covered
  by the overflow— equivalent to about 120 tons per annum. Then
  followed the description of the three divisions previously defined, in
  cluding such local features as the Giant Buttress, the Boar's Bead,
  and the Broken Basin—the latter a circular pool 1 2 feet in diameter
  and 30 inches deep—the only warm-water basin on the White Ter
  race of sufficient depth to be used as a bath. The central portion of
  the Middle Terrace was distinguished by a series of massive, rugged,
  and rippled perpendicular steps, many of which exceeded 0 feet in
  height, and were variously ornamented. The margin of the lower
  plateau was somewhat undefined towards the lake.
     Tho Author observed that the comparative study of local pheno
  mena must precede any attempt to explain tho origin of the Terraces.
  The phenomena of mud volcanoes exhibited at the plateau of Koto-
  kanapanapa afford to the geologist valuable indicatious of the pro
  bable appearance of the Terata cauldron in the earlier stages of its
  activity. These phenomena he described, and arrived at the conclu
  sion that the initial activity of Terata was of a similar nature, and
  that the successive periods which mark the history of the formation
  of tho White Terrace correspond with the increasing activity of its
 source. Given a crater-lake of seething mud, as activity increased,
 the outer wall of the crater would occasionally be broken down, and
  mud streams would be liberated. Such periodical overflows he re
  garded as having built up the curious and complex terraced series.
 This hypothesis he applied in detail, and concluded that deposition
  and removal combined to produce the great variety of forms which
 existed. Thermal activity within the cauldron having at length
  removed the softened rock, the deposition of siliceous incrustation
 commenced.
     Lastly he gave a short description of the Pink Terrace, and re
 marked that by tho catastrophe of June 10th the waters of the lakes
 llotomakirisi and Rotomahuna were drawn into tho new fissure at
 the base of Tarawera, whilst the Terraces were blown away.
    3. " The Eruption of Mount Tarawera." P>y Capt. F. W. Hutton,
F.G.S.
    The paper commenced with a description of the country in which
the eruption took place. From Tongariro to White Island, in the
Bay of Plenty, a distance of 130 miles, there extends a belt, 20 or
30 miles wide, abounding in solf'ataras, geysers, hot springs, <&c.,
and composed of volcanic rocks, chiefly rliyolite, with some augite-
andesito. About the middle of this belt lie tho mountain and lake
of Tarawera, and two or three miles further south Lake liotomahana,

         Origin of Dry Chalk Valley* and of Coombe Rock.           137
 the spot where the famous Pink and White Terraces existed. Before
 the recent eruption there were no craters on Mount Tarawera, the
 form of which was a ridge, apparently due to denudation.
    A description of the eruption was then given. Although earth
 quakes had prevailed for some time in the neighbourhood, they were
 not violent. Shortly after midnight on the 1 Oth June a series of
 tremendous explosions took place from various parts of the Tarawera
ridge, and columns of steam were thrown up with quantities of red-
 hot stones. The whole mountain appeared as if on fire. A column
 of steam was then sent up from near Okaro far to the west, and,
 finally, a great explosion took place in Lake Rotomahana, and
 steam rushed forth to a height exceeding that of the columns from
Tarawera. These eruptions from the plain were not accompanied
hy any red-hot stones ; the ejecta were of much lower temperature.
 The principal eruption, accompanied by violent earthquakes and
loud noises of various kinds, was over by 5.30 a. m., and the moun
 tain craters ceased to be active within twenty-four hours, but steam
 with some stones and mud continued to issue from the Rotoma
 hana and Okaro craters for several days, and steam has ever since
 been emitted from Rotomahana.
    The results of the eruption in the form of fissures on Mount
Tarawera, the change of ltotomahana from a lake to a crater of
larger dimensions, with precipitous walls, the formation of a new
lake between this crater and Tarawera, and the formation of a
number of small craters about Okaro, were then briefly noticed.
The materials ejected were composed of augite-andesite, and
 rhyolites, hoth compact and vesicular. The mineral structure and
 distribution over the surrounding country of various forms of
pumice, scoria, and ash were described, and it was shown that
 there was a difference in the substances ejected from the moun
 tain craters of Tarawera and those from the ciaters in the plain
 at Rotomahana and Okaro, the former comprising pumice and
scoria, which were not thrown out from the latter, and but little
et«am issuing from the higher craters when compared with the
enormous volumes emitted from the lower vents.
   The cause of the eruption was ascribed to the reheating of old
lava-streams saturated with water. This reheating was appa
rently not due to crushing ; for, had it been so, the preceding earth
quakes would have been more violent ; but probably to molten rock
coming up from below and heating the rocks near the surface. The
eruptions from Rotomahana and Okaro were purely hydrothermal.
  February 23.—Prof. J. W. Judd, F.R.S., President, in the Chair.
   The following communication was read :—
   1. " On the Origin of Dry Chalk Valleys and of Coombe Rock."
By Clement Reid, Esq., F.G.S.
   Whilst engaged iu examining the Pleistocene deposits of Sussex,
for the Geological Survey, the Author observed that the Coombe
Rock differs from anything commonly seen in the strongly glaciated
districts of the Yorkshire and Lincolnshire Wolds. As in these
localities, the seaward slope of the South Downs is broken by the

138                      Geological Society :—
line of a partially buried sea-cliff before passing under the low-lying
drift areas. Subsequent to the formation of this sea-cliff a mass of
angular flint and chalk detritus spread out from the Downs over
the low lands, being seldom found far up the valleys. This is the
Coombe Iloek, which passes further on into a worthless mixture of
angular flint and loam, and at a still greater distance into almost
clean brick-earth. It is not of glacial origin, neither is it marine,
nor is it a gravel formed by ordinary fluviatilc action. A study of
the contours of the Downs may give us, the Author thinks, a key to
the mode of its formation.
    The rolling outline of the Downs, and the steep-sided dry valleys
poiut to conditions which have passed away. However much rain
may fall, tho upper parts of these valleys are always dry, and no
running water can be found where the incline of the bottom of the
valley exceeds the slope of the plane of saturation—never more than
60 feet per mile. Three explanations have been offered :—
    (1 ) Former submergence and rise in level of the plane of saturation.
    (2) Former higher level of the plane of saturation before the
valleys were cut down to their present depth.
    (3) Increase in the rainfall.
    Kone of these theories is sufficient to account for the origin of
Coombcs and the transport of Coombe Kock. There is no evidence
of submergence whilst the Coombcs were being eroded : on the con
trary, the descent of the Coombcs to the sea-level n<*ar liottingdean
and elsewhere, is suggestive of a slight elevation. The deep trench
ing of the Downs by valleys, and the consequent loweiing of the
plane of saturation is applicable to many of the slightly inclined
Coombes, but the whole structure of the country shows that the
outlet for the water must have been as clear then as now. Since
the dry chalk valleys play no part in tho present superficial drainage,
it would make but little difference in the plane of saturation if they
were filled up again. If springs had formerly existed in the higher
valleys, their gradual failure would have left evidence in the shape
of gravel deposits and terraces. Moreover, as an objection, both to
the first and second theories, it is urged that if valleys had been
cut back by springs, some of them should fall to the north, where
most of the springs occur, whereas the Coombes open to the south.
Lastly he finds no traces of the " hypothetica l pluvial period."
    In suggesting an origin for the dry valleys and Coombe Hock, he
 considers that the fauna and flora, both at Fisherton and linvey
Tracey, point to a great degree of cold, from 20° to 30° lower than
 what now prevails in the South of England. The ground would
 thus be frozen to the depth of several hundred feet, and the drain-
 ege system of the chalk entirely modified. There would be no
 underground circulation. The summer rains would immediately
 ran off any steep slope, often in violent torrents. These would tear
 up the layer of rubble already loosened by the frost, carrying down
 masses of unthawed chalk too rapidlv for solvents to have much
 effect. No Coombe Hook is found in valleys that have a greater
slope than 100 feet per mile. There is no need of excessive rainfall ;
 it might have been a dry period corresponding to that of the Loss.

       Probable Amount offormer Glaciation of Norway.               139
    If the time had not been short, all soft rocks in the South of
England would have been planed down to one gently undulating
surface like the plains of llussia and Siberia. Such Tundra-con
ditions may have occurred more than once.
    2. " Probable Amount of former Glaciation of Norway, as demon
strated by the present condition of Rocks upon and near the Western
Coast." By W. F. Stanley, Esq., F.G.S.
    The observations on which this paper are based were made in
June last, during a voyage along the west coast of Norway. Inland
conditions were also noted in the Hardnngcr and Sognc Fjords, and
a few trips up some of the valleys enabled these inland observations
to be further extended. The author limited his work to searching
for outline evidence of ice-action. The aspect of the coast for
hundreds of miles consecutively has a uniform character of jagged
and pointed rocks nearly to the sea-level. At the mouths of the
fjords the rocks are more rounded, particularly at heights less than
100 feet. Within the Arctic Circle the Swartisen glacier reaches
nearly to the sea, and here the rocks are more rounded.
    He exhibited sketches showing the characteristic forms of the
 rocks, and concluded from a study of these that ice had never prevailed
 along the entire western coast of Norway, neither had inland ice of
 any considerable thickness flowed over this coast in sufficient volume
to wear off the points of the sharply fractured granite. Even the
rocks below 100 feet are not more worn than is sometimes the case
in tropical climates. The " shark's teeth " of the Lofotens have not
 been planed down, nor is there any vestige of the great ice-sheet of
 our text-books within the Arctic Circle. Even in the fjords there
 is no evidence of ice-action until we arrive at the head, where it is
 very evident. There can be no better demonstration of the extent
 of former glaciation than in the Romsdal valley, where the lino of
 the worn base oxtends as high up the rock as 000 feet. He also
 instanced the principal glaciers of the Folge Fjord, now about 7 miles
 from the open water of the fjord, though formerly within 1^ mile.
 The angular character of the low rocky island iu front of Odde
 shows that it cannot have advanced further.
    The Author concluded that at no period within geologically recent,
 Bay Tertiary times, has ice extended much further than at present.
 Seeing that the morainic matter now in the valleys has been derived
 from the hills, there must formerly have been a greater extent of land
 above the snow-line, and this would cause a former extension of
 glaciers without resort to any extraneous theory or change of cli
 mate. The Great Ice Age has left no trace on the Norwegian
 littoral.
      March 23.—Prof. J. W. Judd, F.R.S., President, in the Chair.
     The following communications were read :—
     1. "Notes on the Structures and Relations of some of tho older
 Rocks of Brittany." By T. G. Bonney, D.Sc, LL.D., F.R.S., Pro
  fessor of Geology in University College, London, and Fellow of St.
  John's College, Cambridge.
     These notes are the results of a visit to some of the more in

140                       Geological Society :—
teresting geological sections in Brittany, in the autumn of last year.
The author is greatly indebted for information to the Eev. E. Hill,
who took part in the summer excursion of the Societe Geologique
de France, and to Dr. Charles Barrois, who has for long been en
gaged in investigating the geology of Brittany.
   (1) The Author briefly noticed the glaucophane-amphibolites and
the associated schists of the lie de Groix, which have been already
admirably described by Dr. C. Barrois. He considered the evidence
to be on the whole in favour of the view that the former were
originally igneous rocks intrusive in the latter, but modified by
subsequent pressure (the marks of which are very conspicuous in
the schists), and by mineral change, which probably produced the
glaucophune, the garnets being anterior to the mechanical dis
turbance,
   (2) The next part of the paper treated of sections in the district
about Quimperle. Cases were cited of granite, modified by pressure
so as to result in a gneissoid rock, and of banded gneisses also modified
by subsequent pressure, but, in the Author's opinion, indubitably
banded gneisses anterior to the mechanical disturbance, and exhi
biting structures which, in his opinion, lend themselves more readily
to a theory of some kind of original stratification of the constituents
than to any other. The amphibolites in this region are undoubtedly
of igneous origin (intrusive), but subsequently modified. In one
part of the district are granitoid gneisses, but little modified by sub
sequent mechanical action, which in structure differ greatly from
the granites, and much resemble the older Archa?an gneisses of
other regions. A " hiilletlinta " to the north of Quimperle" proves
 to be in part a rhyolitic rock, modified by subsequent pressure;
part, however, may be an indurated tuff of similar composition.
   (3) In this part ol the paper were noticed the crystalline rocks
of Koscoff, and (more liri(fly) the Palaw.oic strata about Morlaix,
 with the mineral and structural modifications due to pressure and
to the action of intrusive igneous rocks. The author pointed out
that, in the latter case, the results either of pressure-metnmorphism
or of contact-metamorphism differ much from the crystalline schists,
which, both in Brittany and elsewhere, arc regarded as of Archaean
age ; and that here in the north at Koscoff, we have a series of
banded gneisses, less modified by subsequent pressure than in the
south, the structures of which ore very difficult to explain on any
theory of a " rolling out " of a complicated association of igneous
rocks, but which are such as would naturally result from some kind
of stratification of the original constituents.
   The result of the author's work is to strengthen the opinion which
he has already expressed, that while the structures of some foliated
rocks may be regarded as primarily due to pressure operating on
suitable materials, the structure of others seems opposed to this ex
planation. At any rate the latter rocks appear to have assumed a
crystalline condition with a semblance of stratification in Pre-
Cambrian times ; so that, whatever may he their genesis, they are
rightly called Archaean gneisses and schists.

               The Rocks of Sark, Ilerm, and Jethou.               141
   2. " The Rocks of Sark, Herm, and Jethou." By Rev. E. Hill,
M.A., F.G.S.
   The author described the island of Sark, about three miles long by
two broad, with the smaller areas of Little Sark and hrecqhou.
Little Sark is attached to Great Sark by a narrow ridge (the Cou
pee), which the weather is rapidly degrading, while Hrecqhou is
completely separated by a narrow strait. The greater part of these
islands consists of dark hornblendic lianded rocks, which closely re
semble those of the Lizard, and show by their alternation of
materials and their phenomena of current-bedding that they have
originated by some kind of deposition. These were shown to lie un-
eonformably on a gneiss, seen only at the eastern extremity of the
island, in and around the Creux Harbour. Over this the beds lie
in a dome, and iis they slope away on the N., W., and S., they pass
under a highly-crystalline rock, which has been called a metamorphic
gneiss. This rock was described, and evidence given to show that it
is really a granite,—an igneous rock which has overtlowed the horn
blendic beds.
    Veins and dykes were briefly noticed ; they include a dyke of mica-
trap. The islands of Herm and Jethou, lying between Guernsey
and Sark, were also described. Jethou contains a fine raised beach.
They consist of granite which presents signs of an E, and \V. dip.
 A probability was shown that this granite is pai t of the mass overly
 ing Sark.
    Finally the age of these rocks was shown to be Archaean, and at
 tention was called to the evidence they give that some at least of the
 Arcluean rocks did not originate out of igneous masses by crush,
 but ¦were formed by some process which, if not aqueous sedimenta
 tion, at all events was some kind of successive deposition.
    3, " Quartzite Boulders and Grooves in the Roger Mino at
 Dukinfield." By James Radcliffe, Esq., F.G.S.
    Quartzite boulders have from time to time been found imbedded
 in the roof of the Roger Mine coal-seam. Similar boulders had
 previously been described from coal-seams both in Leicestershire
 and the forest of Dean. The composition of the Roger-Mine boulders
 was shown by notes furnished by Prof. Bonney to be quartzose grit
 and quartzite, containing some grains of felspar, epidote, and tour
 maline and flakes of mica. This composition resembled that of
 some of the pebbles in the Buuter conglomerate of the Midland
 counties, and also that of some of the Loch Maree quartzites. The
 boulders varied in weight from Kit! pounds to 4 pounds, and ap
 peared to have been dropped into the coal, one boulder having been
 found standing edgeways. They were half imbedded ill the seam,
 half enclosed in the overlying grey shale.
    In the upper surface of the coal in the same mine, grooves were
 found running about S. 50° E., the mean direction of faults, slips,
 4c., being 8. 26° W. The sides of these grooves were raised, as if
 by pressure, and each depression commenced as a small groove, then
 increased in depth and breadth, aud finally died out.

                               [   142    ]
          XVI. Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
            THE ADAMS PRIZE, CAMBRIDGE UNIVERSITY.
                (St. John's College Lodge, May 7, 1887.)
TTHE Examiners give notice that the following is the subject for
       the Adams Prize to ba adjudged iu 18S9 :—
     On the Criterion of the Stability and Instability of the Motion
                          of a Viscous Fluid.
   It appears from experiment (see Phil. Trans, for 1883, p. 935)
that the steady motion in a tube is stable or unstable, according
as the velocity is less or greater than a certain amount ; and it is
inferred from theory, confirmed by experiment, that in two geome
trically similar systems the motion is stable or uustable according
as ii/f)cU is greater or less than a certain numerical quantity n-
c, U being a length and a velocity which define the linear scale and
the scale of velocity in the system, and p, p the density and coeffi
cient of viscosity of the fluid ; but the quantity « has not hitherto
been obtained even in a simple case except by experiment.
   It is required either to determine generally the mathematical
criterion of stability, or to find from theory the value of n in some
simple case or cases. For instance, the case mighi; be taken of
steady motion in two dimensions between two fixed planes, or
that of a simple shear between two planes, one at rest and one
in motion.
   Should the investigation not be found practicable for even a
simple case of the motion of a viscous fluid, some substantial
advance might be made in what has been done for a perfect fluid
(see Proceedings of the Mathematical Society, vol. xi. p. 57), the
title of the Essay being modified accordingly.
   The Prize is open to the competition of all persons who have at
any time been admitted to a Degree in this University.
   Each Essay should be accompanied by a full and careful abstract
pointing out the parts which the author considers to be new, and
indicating the parts which are to be regarded as of more im
portance than the rest.
   The Essays must be sent in to the Vice-Chancellor on or before
the sixteenth day of December, 1888, privately. Each is to have
some motto prefixed, and to be accompanied by a paper sealed up
with the same motto and the words Adams Prize on the outside,
and the Candidate's full name with his College and Degree written
within.
   The papers containing the names of those Candidates who may
not succeed will be destroyed unopened.
   Any Candidate is at liberty to send in his Essay either written
(but not in his own hand) or printed or lithographed.
   The successful Candidate receives about Jl 70. He is required

              Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.             143
to print the Essay at his own expense, and to present a copy to
the University Library, to the Library of St. John's College, and to
each of the four Examiners.
                                    C. Taylor, Vice- Chancellor.
                                    G. H. Daewin, Plumian Professor.
                                    G. Q. Stokes.
                                    Bayleigh.
        ON ATMOSPHERIC ELECTRICITY. BY R. NAHRWOLD.
   The author had shown in an earlier paper that electricity which
issues from a point into an earth-connected receiver, charges, iu
preference, the floating dust particles in the enclosed space, which
are then quickly driven to the sides. If these sides are coated with
glycerine the particles remain there, and the space sooner becomes
free from dust than when allowed to settle gradually.
    He describes an experiment by which the action of electricity
on the dust diffused in the air is demonstrated in a striking manner.
    A tubulated glass bell-jar, about 30 centim. in height and 20
centim. in diameter, was carefully cleaned and then coated on the
inside with glycerine. The bell-jar was inverted, and the upper
opening closed by a zinc sheet, which, with the layer of glycerine,
 was in conducting communication with the earth. Through a hole
about 2 centim. in diameter in the centre of this lid a copper wire,
 provided with fifteen fine sewing-needles, was fixed by an insulator.
 This wire was made of two wires, of about 5 millim. diameter,
 twisted together, and the needles are stuck in between these two
 at a distance of 1 centim. apart and at right angles to the wire.
 The copper wire was connected with one pole of a Topler's machine,
 the other pole of which was to earth, so that when the machine
 was worked the electricity issued from the needles into the bell-jar.
    Tobacco-smoke could be blown through the lower aperture, so
 that the bell-jar was quite opaque, and even the needles in the
 centre could not be seen. When now the machine was worked,
 the smoke disappeared after two or three turns and the bell-jar
 was as clear as before.
    Aqueous vapour, sal-ammoniac, phosphoric anhydride, and soot
 could be used, but not so advantageously as tobacco-smoke. If the
 inside was not coated with glycerine the same results were obtained,
 but required a much longer time.
    The other results obtained by the author are as follows :—
    (1) It has been more conclusively proved than heretofore that
 the electricity issuing from the points does not electrify the air
 itself statically, but the dust in it, which consists of suspended
 liquid or solid particles.
     (2) It has been shown that fine particles are driven away from
  an ignited platinum wire, which are diffused in the surrounding
  air ; and in this way air free from dust, which is not suited for
  receiving electricity from points, becomes again capable of acquiring
  a charge.

144            Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
   (3) The conclusion has been arrived at that the electricity issuing
from an ignited platinum wire does nut give a static charge to the
air itself, but that the charges observed as atmospheric electricity
have their seat in the particles already repelled into the air.
   (4) It is accordingly highly probable that atmospheric air, and
no doubt other gasss also, cannot be statically elecrrified.
   (5) A fresh experiment is given which shows that, at ordinary
temperatures, negative electricity of high potential is-mes more
readily into the an* than positive.— Wiedemann's Aiuuilen, No. 7,
1887v
ON AN EXPERIMENTAL DETERMINATION OF THE WORK OF MAG
       NETIZATION. BY A. WASSMUTH AND G. A. SCHILLING.
   If soft iron is brought from a very great distance near a magnet,
and thereupon so rapidlv removed that the maguetism doas not
diminish, more work (VV) is consumed in the removal than was
gained in the approach ; for in the removal the attraction is
stronger. The difference, A = W — L, is the work of magnetiza
tion. It is assumed that the magnetizing force x acts on all parts
of the body used, an elongated ellipsoid of rotation, with equal
force in tha direction of the axis of rotation. The work of mag
netization is calculated for 1 cubic millim., if the moment of the
cubic millimetre is p. W is then =xp, and L=§ pdx, as is shown
by calculation and by the experiments. Hence
                         A=X[i— § fidx=§xdfi.
   In the experiments the iron ellipsoid, with its axis of rotation,
was in the same vertical plane as the limbs of a large electromagnet
 provided with large pole-pieces, so that the field was as uniform as
 possible ; it was suspended to a balance, so that the attraction
p at various vertical distances z from the tips of the magnet-ends
could be determined. The surface of the curve whose absciss®
correspond to r, and the ordinates to p, defines the variation of
work, which according to theory must be equal to §pdx. The
forces x and p were measured by the currents induced in a fixed
coil, on changing the polarity, in one case with, and in another case
without, the freely-suspended iron core ; and the currents were
reduced to absolute measure by a terrestrial inductor introduced
into the circuit. Experiment confirmed the theoretical antici
pations. They prove that the work for the change of position of
the iron is equal to the corresponding increase and decrease of
§ftdx; the work of magnetization is thus equal to the change of
§xdp. Only incase, when p is proportional to a;, do §xdp and Jy^ dx
give the same value, £xp. The work is in that case proportional to
xl, on which mav be based a method of determining x.— Wiener
Berkhte, xciv. (1886); Beibldtter der Physik, No. 4 (1887).

                                    THE
            LONDON, EDINBURGH, and DUBLIN
       PHILOSOPHICAL                          MAGAZINE
                                     AND
            JOURNAL                  OF       SCIENCE.
                         [FIFTH SERIES.]
                         AUGUST 1887.
  XVII. On the Maintenance of Vibrations by Forces of Double
     Frequency, and on the Propagation of Waves through a
     Medium endowed, with a Periodic Structure. By Lord
     Bayleigh, Sec. R. S., Professor of Natural Philosophy in
     the Royal Institution* .
         E nature of the question to be first considered may be
         best explained by a paragraph from a former paper t,
  in which the subject was briefly treated. " There is also
  another kind of maintained vibration which, from one point of
 view, may be regarded as forced, inasmuch as the period is
 imposed from without, but which differs from the kind just
 referred to (ordinary forced vibrations) in that the imposed
 periodic variations do not tend directly to displace the body
 from its configuration of equilibrium. Probably the best-
 known example of this kind of action is that form of Melde's
 experiment in which a fine string is maintained in transverse
 vibration by connecting one of its extremities with the vibra
 ting prong of a massive tuning-fork, the direction of motion of
the point of attachment being parallel to the length of the string^ .
 The effect of the motion is to render the tension of the string
 periodically variable ; and at first sight there is nothing to
 cause the string to depart from its equilibrium condition of
 straightness. It is known, however, that under these circum
stances the equilibrium position may become unstable, and
that the string may settle down into a state of permanent and
   * Communicated by the Author.
   t " On Maintained Vibrations." Thil. Mag. April 1883, p. 229.
   I " When the direction of motion is transverse, the case falls under the
head of ordinary forced vibrations."
   Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 24. No. 147. August 1887.                  L

146            Lord Rayleigh on the Maintenance of
vigorous vibration whose period is the double of that of the
point of attachment "*. Other examples of acoustical interest
are mentioned in the paper.
    My attention was recalled to the subject by Mr. Glaisher's
Address to the Astronomical Society t, in which he gives an
interesting account of the treatment of mathematically similar
questions in the Lunar Theory by Mr. Hill J and by Prof.
Adams§. The analysis of Mr. Hill is in many respects in
comparably more complete than that which I had attempted ;
but his devotion to the Lunar Theory leads the author to pass
by many points of great interest which arise when his results
are applied to other physical questions.
    By a suitable choice of the unit of time, the equation of
motion of the vibrating body may be put into the form
              5+2*^'+(®o + 281cos2<)w=0; .                        .  .   (1)
where Jc is a positive quantity, which may usually be treated as
small, representing the dissipative forces. (®0+2®1 cos 2pt)
represents the coefficient of restitution, which is here regarded
as subject to a small imposed periodic variation of period ir.
Thus ©o is positive, and ®i is to be treated as relatively
small.
    The equation to which Mr. Hill's researches relate is in
one respect less general than (1), and in another more general.
It omits the dissipative term proportional to k ; but, on the
other hand, as the Lunar Theory demands, it includes terms
proportional to cos At, cos Gt, &c. Thus
         ^ + (@o+20icos2i + 20acos4< + -- -)w=0;                     .   (2)
         W+@w=0'                                                         <3>
where
         ©=2B@„e"'",                                                     (4)
n being any integer, and i representing                    — 1). In the
present investigation ©_„=©„.
   • "See Tyndall's 'Sound,' 3rd. ed. ch. iii. § 7, where will also be found
a general explanation of the mode of action."
   t Monthly Notices, Feb. 1887.
   X " On the Part of the Motion of the Lunar Perigee which is a Func
tion of the Mean Motions of the Sun and Moon," Acta Mathematica, 8 :1,
1886. Mr. Hill's work was first published in 1877.
   § " On the Motion of the Moon's Node, in the case when the orbits
of the Sun and Moon are supposed to have no Eccentricities, and when
their Mutual Inclination is supposed to be indefinitely small." Monthly
Notices, Nov. 1877.

            Vibrations by Forces of Double Frequency.         147
    It will be convenient to give here a sketch of Mr. Hill's
method and results. Remarking that when ©1; @2, &c. vanish,
the solution of (3) is
                        w=K««+Kf«-«                           (5)
where K, K' are arbitrary constants, and c= \/ (©0), De shows
that in the general case we may assume as a particular solution
                         w^J)^*"',                            (6)
the value of c being modified by the operation of ©i, &c, and
the original term b0eict being accompanied by subordinate
terms corresponding to the positive and negative integral
values of n.
   The multiplication by @, as given in (4), does not alter the
form of (6) ; and the result of the substitution in the differ
ential equation (3) may be written
                    (c + 2m)«Jm-2.@m_A=0; .... (7)
which holds for all integral values of m, positive and negative.
These conditions determine the ratios of all the coefficients
bn to one of them, e. g., b0, which may then be regarded as
the arbitrary constant. They also determine c, the main sub
ject of quest. Mr. Hill writes
                      [«]=(c + 2n)«-e0;                        (8)
so that the equations take the form
 ... + [-2]i_s- ©x              02 &0— ©3 i1-©4fi2-...=0,
         ©, 6_s+[_l]6_1_e1ft0- ©2 &!-©,&,-... =0,
         02 6_2- ©j 6_i+[0]60- @! b1-@3bt-...=0, >
         ©3 6.2- ©s &_!-©! 60+[-l>i-®i$i-. ••=<>,
         ©4 b.3- 03 b.i-Qibo- 0, 6,+ [2]6»-... = 0,
    The determinant formed by eliminating the i's from these
equations is denoted by           so that the equation from which
 c is to be found is
                              2>(e)=0                        (10)
    The infinite series of values of c determined by (10) cannot
 give independent solutions of (3),—a differential equation
 of the second order only. It is evident, in fact, that the
 system of equations by which c is determined is not altered if
 we replace c by c + 2v, where v is any positive or negative
 integer. Neither is any change incurred by the substitution
 of — c for c. "It follows that if (10) is satisfied by a root
 c=c0, it will also have, as roots, all the quantities contained
 in the expression             +c0 + 2n,

    148           Lord Rayleigh on the Maintenance of
   where n is any positive or negative integer or zero. And
   these are all the roots the equation admits of ; for each of the
   expressions denoted by [w] is of two dimensions in c, and may
   be regarded as introducing into the equation the two roots
   2n + c0 and 2n—c0. Consequently the roots are either all
    real or all imaginary; and it is impossible that the equation
   should have any equal root unless all the roots are integral."
       On these grounds Mr. Hill concludes that S(c) must be
   such that
                      2>(c) =A [cos (wc) — cos (irc0)] . . . (11)
    identically, where A is some constant independent of c ; whence
    on putting c=0,
                         SXO)=A[l-cos(>0], .... (12)
    in which, if we please, c0 may be replaced by c. The value
    of A may now be determined by comparison with the parti
    cular case ©, = 0, ©2=0, &c, for which of course c=V0o.
    Thus if S'(0) denote the special form then assumed, t. e. the
    simple product of the diagonal constituents,
               2y(0)=A[l-cos(irv/@o)],                           (13)
    and
                  1 — cos (ire)        sin8 (^ttc) _ £)(0)
                                                                 (14)
               1— cos (irV®0) ' sin8 (iTr^/Oo) S)'(O)-
    The fraction SKO^IWO) is denoted by D(0). It is the
    determinant formed from the original one by dividing each
    row by the constituent in the diagonal, so as to reduce all
    the diagonal constituents to unity, and bv making c vanish.
    Thus
                          1— cos (ttc)
                        i^oIF7^) = d(0)'                         (15)
   where
                               ©1         03         ©3      ©< •
                   1        42-©0      42-©0       42-©0   42-©0
                   0X                     0,         ©2      ©3
                22-©0 +         1   - 22-©0
                                                   22-0o   28-0o 1
0(0) =            0,          ©,           1J.       0,      03
                           02-©0 +              *~ 02-©0   02-@0 •    (16)
               O*-0O
                  ©3          ©2          01 +               0X
               22-@0       22-©0                     J.1 — 22-©0  *
                                       2*-©0 +
                  ©4          ©,         04
                                                             1

            Vibrations by Forces ofDouble Frequency.            149
The value of <U+25A1> (0) is calculated for the purposes of the Lunar
Theory to a high order of approximation. It will here suffice
to give the part which depends upon the squares of 0lf 0S, &c.
Thus
       ,       *cot(frve0)r Si1 . ©»s . «V ,                      l
   Another determinant, V(0), is employed by Mr. Hill, the
relation of which to <U+25A1> (0) is expressed by
                 V(O) = 2sin2(i7r*/0o). <U+25A1>(<)); . . . (18)
so that the general solution for c may be written
                 cos(ttc) = 1-V(0)                             (19)
   Mr. Hill observes that the reality of c requires that 1 — V(0)
should lie between — 1 and + 1. In the Lunar Theory this
condition is satisfied; but in the application to Acoustics the
case of an imaginary c is the one of greater interest, for the
vibrations then tend to increase indefinitely.
    Cos (ire) being itself always real, let us suppose that ire is
complex, so that
                              c=a + i/S,
where a and 0 are real. Thus
            cos 7rc= cos ira cos iV/S— sin ira sin wr/9;
and the reality of cos ire requires either (1) that /9=0, or (2)
 that a=n, n being an integer. In the first case c is real. In
the second
                  cos 7rc= +cos i7r/9=l— V(0), . . . (20)
which gives but one (real) value of        If 1 — V(0) be positive,
                         c=±z/3 + 2n;                          (21)
but if 1— V(0) be negative,
                         COS 7TC= —COS 17T/9,
whence
                         c=±i$ + 2n + l                       (22)
The latter is the case with which we have to do when 0O, and
 therefore c, is nearly equal to unity ; and the conclusion that
when c is complex, the real part is independent of 0j, 08, &c.
is of importance. The complete value of w may then be
written
              w=^SA„ctf(1+!B) + e-p'26/„e«(,+2B>, . . . (23)
the ratios of b„ and also of b„ being determined by (9). After
the lapse of a sufficient time, the second sot of terms in e~fit
become insignificant.

150          Lord Rayleigh on the Maintenance of
   In the application of greatest acoustical interest ©0 (and c)
are nearly equal to unity; so that the free vibrations are per
formed with a frequency about the half of that introduced
by ©j. In this case the leading equations in (9) are those
 which involve the small quantities [0] and [ — 1]; but for
 the sake of symmetry, it is advisable to retain also the equa
tion containing [1]. If we now neglect ©2, as well as the 6's
whose suffix is numerically greater than unity, we find
                 5-' m [i][-i]
               ©,[i]        h             h
                                    = ©TFT]'       '  •  '  (24)
                                                            W
and
               [0][l][-l]-@i2{[l] + [-l]}=0.             .  (25)
   For the sake of distinctness it will be well to repeat here
that
   [0] = c2-©0, [-l] = (c-2)2-©0, [l] = (c + 2)2-@°.
Substituting these values in (25), Mr. Hill obtains
     (c2-0o){(c2 + 4-0o)2-16c2}-2e1V + 4-©o} = O,
and neglecting the cube of (c2— @0), as well as its product with
©2
             (C2-@o)2 + 2(©0-l)(c2-@0) +®12=0;
and from this again
             c2=l+v/{(©o-l)2-©1ii}                          (26)
   It appears, therefore, that c is real or imaginary according
as (©0— l)2 is greater or less than ©j2. In the problem of
the Moon's apse, treated by Mr. Hill,
            ©0 = 1-1588439,       ©,= -0-0570440;
and in the corresponding problem of the node, investigated by
Prof. Adams,
                   ©O=l-17804,44973,149,
                   ©^0-01261,68354,6.
   In both these cases the value of c is real, though of course
not to be accurately determined by (26).
   Mr. Hill's results are not immediately applicable to the
acoustical problem embodied in (1), in consequence of the
omission oi k, representing the dissipation to which all actual
vibrations are subject. The inclusion of this term leads,
however, merely to the substitution for (c + 2«)2— ©0 in (8) of
                  (c + 2n)2-2t£(c + 2n)-@0;
so that the whole operation of k is represented if we write

            Vibrations by Forces of Double Frequency.          151
(c— ik) in place of c, and (®0—P) in place of @0- Accordingly
                      cosir(c-i/fc) = l-V'(0), .... (27)
V'(0) differing from V(0) only by the substitution of ©o— $
for @0.
   If 1— V'(0) lies between +1, (c— ik) is real, so that
                           c = ik±a + 2n                      (28)
In this case both solutions are affected with the factor e~u}
indicating that whatever the initial circumstances may be, the
motion dies away.
   It may be otherwise when 1 — V'(0) lies beyond the limits
 + 1. In the case of most importance, when @0 is nearly equal
to unity, 1 — V'(0) is algebraically less than —1. If
                   cost'7r/S=-l + V/(0),                      (29)
we may write
                   c=l + i(Jfe±£) + 2n                        (30)
   Here again both motions die down unless /S is numerically
greater than k, in which case one motion dies down, while the
other increases without limit. The critical relation may be
written
                   cob(mtA) = -1 + V'(0)                      (31)
   From (30) we see that, whatever may be the value of k, the
vibrations (considered apart from the rise or subsidence indi
cated by the exponential factors) have the same frequency as
if k, as well as @v @2, &c. vanished.
   Before leaving the general theory it may be worth while to
point out that Mr. Hill's method may be applied when the
coefficients of cPw/dt3 and dw/dt, as well as of w, are subject
to given periodic variations. We may write
             •£+*$+•-<>                                      (32)
where
             *=2*nes<"<,      V=2VyM,        ©=2@„e1'"'.     (33)
Assuming, as before,
                        w=2B6Beic'+2"",                      (34)
we obtain, on substitution, as the coefficient of eict+2imt,
      - tnbn (c + 2n)2*m-„ + i2A (c + 2n)¥m_„ + 2 6»6m_B,
which is to be equated to zero. The equation for c may still
be written
                           ©(c) = 0,                         (35)

     152            Lord Rayleigh on the Maintenance of
    where
        ... [-2,0],       [-1, -1],     [0, -2],   [1, -3],    [2, -4],.
        ...[-2,1],        [-1,0],      [0,-1],     [1,-2],     [2,-3],.
c) =    ...[-2,2],        [-1,1],      [0,0],      [1,-1],     [2,-2],.
        ...[-2,3],        [-1,2],       [0,1],     [1,0],      [2,-1],.
        ...[-2,4],        [-1,3],      [0,2],      [1,1],      [2,0], .
    and
                  [n,r] = (c + 2n)s<I>r-z(e + 2n)¥r-0r.          .  .  (37)
        By similar reasoning to that employed by Mr. Hill we may
    show that
                      2) (c) = A (cos ire — cos irc0)
                             + B (sin 7tc— sin irc0) ... ,
    where A and B are constants independent of c ; and, farther,
    that
                      2>(0)=A(l-cos7rc)-Bsin7rc. . . .(38)
       If all the quantities Or, ¥r, ©r vanish except <!>„, ¥0, 0O,
    ©(0) reduces to the diagonal row simply, say S'(0). Let
    Cj, c3 bo the roots of
                                                                       (39)
    then
                     2>'(0) =A(1— cosircO — Bsin ttcj,
                             = A (1 — cos 7rcs) — B sin 7rcs ;
    so that the equation for c may be written
                  2> (0), 1 — cos ire, sin ire,
                  'S'(O), 1 — cos irc1} sin ircx, =0.                 (40)
                  2)'(0), 1— cosflr2, sin7rc2,
    In this equation lS(0)-5-'2>'(0) is the determinant derived
    from ®(0) by dividing each row so as to make the diagonal
    constituent unity.
       If . . . ¥_„    '^i . . .vanish (even though ...*_„ %, 9r . .
    remain finite), 25(c) is an even function of c, and the co
    efficient B vanishes in (38). In this case we have simply
                            1 — cos ire _ £>(0)
                         1- cosWOo ~ 2/(0)'
    exactly as when <&,,            ^a, ^-a . . . vanish.

             Vibrations by Forces of Double Frequency.             153
   Reverting to (24), we have as the approximate particular
solution, when there is no dissipation,
                       e(c-»)«        fit        g(e+*)i/
               w= (c-2)2-©0 + w, + (c+2)*-®; • • (41)
If c bo real, the solution may be completed by the addition
of a second, found from (41) by changing the sign of c. Each
of these solutions is affected with an arbitrary constant mul
tiplier. The realized general solution may be written
     _ R cos (c—2)t + S sin (c - 2)t
   w~             (c-2)2-03
      R cos ct + S sin ct    R cos (c + 2)t + S s'm(c + 2)t
from which the last term may usually be omitted, in conse
quence of the relative magnitude of its denominator. In this
solution c is determined by (26) .
   When <? is imaginary, we take
                      4*,=©1>-(e0-l)>;                            (43)
so that
              c2=l + 2w,     c—l+is,       c—2=—l + is.
The particular solution may be written
              w=e-"{&1e-il + {l-&0-2is)eu\ ; .             .   .  (44)
or, in virtue of (43),
              io = e-,'|(l-0o+@1)cos< + 2ssin^ ; . . (45)
or, again,
w=e-«'{^(0i + l-©o).cos<+v/(01-l + ©o).sin<}. . (46)
The general solution is
           to = Re-' { ( 1 - 0O + ®i) cos t + 2s sin t } |
              + Se" { (1 -00 + 00 cos <-2« sin <} j ' '
R, S being arbitrary multipliers.
   One or two particular cases may be noticed.              If 0O = 1,
2* = 0„ and
                   w = ll'e-*' { cos t + sin t) }
                                                V                 (48)
                     + SV {cos <- sin*} J
Again, suppose that
                         e1J=(eo-i)',                             (49)
so that s vanishes, giving the transition between the real and

154            Lord Rayleigh on the Maintenance of
imaginary values of c. Of the two terms in (46), one or
other preponderates indefinitely in the two alternatives.
Thus, if ©, = J — ©0, the solution reduces to cost; but if
©i = — 1 + ©oj it reduces to sin t. The apparent loss of gene
rality by the merging of the two solutions may be repaired in
the usual way by supposing s infinitely small.
   When there are dissipative forces, we are to replace c by
(c— ik), and © by (©0— A2); but when k is small the latter
substitution may be neglected. Thus, from (26),
                c=i+tt+iv'{(e0-i)»-e1'}.                   .   .  .   (50)
Interest here attaches principally to the case where the radical
is imaginary ; otherwise the motion necessarily dies down.
If, as before,
                         4«2=@12-(©0-i)2,                            (5i)
               c = l + ik + is,  c—2=—l + ik + is,             .  .  (52)
and
                   w= (c-i/c-2f-®o + ©7'
or
            w=e-W{®1e-it+{l-®0-2is)eit\,
or
            w.=£-<l+«)<{(l-©0 + @1)cos<+2*sin4. . . (53)
This solution corresponds to a motion which dies away.
   The second solution (found by changing the sign of s) is
            w=e;-*)'{(l-©0 + ©1)cos<-2ssin4. .                    .  (54)
The motion dies away or increases without limit according as
s is less or greater than k.
   The only case in which the motion is periodic is when s = k,
or
                       4£3=01a-(0o-l)2;                              (55)
and then
                  w = (l_.©0_ ©^cost— 2ksmt. . . . (56)
   These results, under a different notation, were given in my
former paper*.
   If @o=l, we have by (51), 2«=® ; and from (53), (54),
w=Re-<i+*"{cos<+ sin<} +Se-(l-*)'{cos<-sin^.. . (57)
  * In consequence of an error of sign, the result for a second approxima
tion there stated is incorrect.

            Vibrations by Forces of Double Frequency.         155
   In the former paper some examples were given drawn from
ordinary mechanics and acoustics. To these may be added
the case of a stretched wire, whose tension is rendered periodi
cally variable by the passage through it of an intermittent
electric current. It is probable that an illustration might be
arranged in which the vibrations are themselves electrical.
0O would then represent the stiffness of a condenser, ^0 re
sistance, and <I>0 self-induction. The most practicable way of
introducing the periodic term would be by rendering the self-
induction variable with the time (^j). This could be effected
by the rotation of a coil forming part of the circuit.
   The discrimination of the real and imaginary values of c is
of so much importance, that it is desirable to pursue the ap
proximation beyond the point attained in (26). From (11)
we find
                      S>(1) _ 1 + cos (ire)
                                                             (58)
                                1+ COS(tjV@o)'
from which, or directly, we see that if c=l, corresponding to
the transition case between real and imaginary values,
                           S(l) =0.                         (59)
   If, as we shall now suppose, 03, @3 . . . vanish, (59) may be
written in the form
                    1,   «2, 1,    0, 0,    0
                    0,   1, au     1, 0,    0
                                                    =0, . (60)
                    0,   0, 1,     au 1,    0
                    0,   0, 0,     1, a3,   1.
where
             _ ©o -l            e0-9           ©0-25
           ax=             a2 =          a3=          '     (61)
                 ©i               ©j '           ©!
   The first approximation, equivalent to (26), is found by
considering merely the central determinant of the second
order involving only at ; thus,
                              a,2-l = 0.  .  .              (62)
The second approximation is
                   ^{(a-^)-1}=0-                            (63)

156           Lord Rayleigh on the Maintenance of
The third is
and so on.     The equation (60) is thus equivalent to
                     ai-—  a3 — a8 — a4—   —... = ±1;          .   . (65)
                                                                     v '
and the successive approximations are
                       N^+D!,          N,= ±D„        ....           (66)
where
                           D/    IV"
are the corresponding convergents to the infinite continued
fraction*.
   In terms of @o> ®i> the second approximation to the equa
tion discriminating the real and imaginary values of c is
             (e0- lXeo-^-ex^ ±6,(80-9).                      .   .   (67)
    One of the most interesting applications of the foregoing
analysis is to the case of a laminated medium in which the
mechanical properties are periodic functions of one of the
coordinates. I was led to the consideration of this problem
in connexion with the theory of the colours of thin plates.
It is known that old superficially decomposed glass presents
reflected tints much brighter, and transmitted tints much
purer, than any of which a single transparent film is capable.
The laminated structure was proved by Brewster ; and it is
 easy to see how the effect may be produced by the occurrence
of nearly similar laminpe at nearly equal intervals. Perhaps
the simplest case of the kind that can be suggested is that of
a stretched string, periodically loaded, and propagating trans
verse vibrations. We may imagine similar small loads to be
disposed at equal intervals. If, then, the wave-length of a
 train of progressive waves be approximately equal to the
 double interval between the loads, the partial reflexions from
the various loads will all concur in phase, and the result must
 be a powerful aggregate reflexion, even though the effect of
 an individual load may be insignificant.
   * The relations of determinants of this kind to continued fractions haa
been studied by Muir (Edinb. Proc. vol. viii.).

            Vibrations by Forces of Double Frequency.         157
   The general equation of vibration for a stretched string of
periodic density is
   (Itrx                 . . 2ttx          Attx
     Po + p]COS -j- +pi 8m-^— +p2cos-
                     , . i-irx      \d2w ndPw                 .„ .
                + p/81n_ + ...j_=T^, .                  .  . (68)
I being the distance in which the density is periodic. We
shall suppose that pi, p2', . . . vanish, so that the sines dis
appear, a supposition which involves no loss of generality
when we restrict ourselves to a simple harmonic variation of
density. If we now assume that w <x eipl, or oc cos pt, we
obtain
   ^ + (0o+281cos2f + 2@acos4£+...)«>=O,                . . (69)
where ^=irx/l, and
                   ®o=^f°,        2ei=^,&c.;.            . . (70)
and this is of the form of Mr. Hill's equation (2).
   When c is real, we may employ the approximate solutions
(41), (44). The latter (with £ written for t) gives, when
multiplied by cospt or sin pt, the stationary vibrations of the
system. From (41) we get
                cos [pt + (c-2)£] cos [pt + cf\
            w~     (c-2?-e~ + —ei—' • • (71)
in which, if c=l nearly, the two terms represent waves pro
gressing with nearly equal velocities in the two directions.
Neither term gains permanently in relative importance as x is
increased or diminished indefinitely.
   It is otherwise when the relation of <t$0 to ©x is such that c
is imaginary. By (44) the solution for w, assumed to be
proportional to eip<, now takes the form
         w = Re-* \ O^f*~ 0 + ( 1 - 60 - 2w)e«"'+» } ,
                                                             (72)
           + Se'* {01e'('"-«) + (l-e)o + 2w><(f'+«}.
                                                       }
   Whatever may be the relative values of R and S, the first
solution preponderates when x is large and negative, and the
second preponderates when x is large and positive. In either
extreme case the motion is composed of two progressive waves
moving in opposite directions, tvhose amjilitudes are equal in
virtue of (43).
   The meaning of this is that a wave travelling in either

158             Lord Rayleigh on the Maintenance of
direction is ultimately totally reflected. For example, we may
so choose the values of R and S that at the origin of x there
is a wave (of given strength) in the positive direction only,
and we may imagine that it here passes into a uniform medium,
and so is propagated on indefinitely without change. But,
in order to maintain this state of things, we have to suppose
on the negative side the coexistence of positive and negative
waves, which at sufficient distances from the origin are of
nearly equal and ever-increasing amplitudes. In order there
fore that a small wave may emerge at .«=0, we have to cause
intense waves to be incident upon a face of the medium cor
responding to a large negative x, of which nearly the whole
are reflected.
    It is important to observe that the ultimate totality of re
flexion does not require a special adjustment between the
frequency of the waves and the linear period of the lamination.
The condition that c should be imaginary is merely that ©,
should numerically exceed (1 — @0). If X be the wave-length
of the vibration corresponding to eipt and to density p0,
and thus the limits between real and imaginary values of c
are given bv
                             £-1=±&                                   p*>
If p, exceeds these limits a train of waves is ultimately totally
reflected, in spite of the finite difference between £X and I*.
   * A detailed experimental examination of various cases in which a
laminated structure leads to a powerful but highly selected reflexion
would be of value. The most frequent examples are met with in the
organic world. It has occurred to me that Becquerel's reproduction of
the spectrum in natural colours upon silver plates may perhaps be expli
cable in this manner. The various parts of the film of subchloride of
silver with which the metal is coated may be conceived to be subjected,
during exposure, to stationary luminous waves of nearly definite wave
length, the eftect of which might be to impress upon the substance a
periodic structure recurring at intervals equal to half the wave-length of
the light ; just as a sensitive flame exposed to stationary sonorous waves
is influenced at the loops but not at the nodes (Phil. Mag. March 1879,
S. 153). In this way the operation of any kind of light would be to pro-
  uce just such a modification of the film as would cause it to reflect
copiously that particular kind of light. I abstain at present from deve
loping this suggestion, in the hope of soon finding an opportunity of
making myself experimentally acquainted with the subject.

              Vibrations by Forces of Double Frequency.               159
   In conclusion, it may be worth while to point out the ap
plication to such a problem as the stationary vibrations of a
string of variable density fixed at two points. A distribution
of density,
                              2-rrx          4tt.v
                  p0 + pi cos -j h pi cos —j- +                      (75)
is symmetrical with respect to the points x=0 and x = ±l,
and between those limits is arbitrary. It is therefore possible
for a string of this density to vibrate with the points in ques
tion undisturbed, and the law of displacement will be
            , f . . 2irx . . Attx . . &1TX                       ~)
w= cospt Ai sin —j- + A2 sin —j- + A3 sin —j—h . . . j- . (76)
When, therefore, the problem is attacked by the method of
Mr. Hill, the value of c obtained by the solution of (69) must
be equal to 2. By (15) this requires
                                 <U+25A1> (0)=0                             (77)
This equation gives a relation between the quantities ©0, ©i,
@s, . . . ; and this again, by (70), determines p, or the fre
quency (p/2ir) of vibration.
   Since ©o=4 nearly, the most important term in (17) is
that involving @22. The first approximation to (77) gives
                             @o=4 + @2;
whence, by (70),
                       (jhP(p\M                                      (78)
   To this order of approximation the solution may be obtained
with far greater readiness by the method given in my work
on Sound*; but it is probable that, if the solution were
required in a case where the variation of density is very con
siderable, advantage might be taken of Mr. Hill's determinant
 <U+25A1> (0) . There are doubtless other physical problems to which
a similar remark would be applicable.
  Terliiig Place, Withain,
        June 19, 1887.
  * ' Theory of Sound,' vol. L § 140. In comparing the results, it must
be borne in mind that the length of the string in (78) is denoted by \ I.

                            [   160    ]
XVIII. On the Production of Sudden Changes in the Torsion
   of a Wire by Change of Temperature. By R. H. M. Bo-
   sanquet, St. John's College, Oxford*.
                        [Plates VI. & VII.]
THE wire which forms the subject of the following obser
       vations is the finest platinum wire which can be pro
cured ; its diameter is about '001 inch, and the length of the
piece used was about 3 feet 6 inches. It original!}- formed
the suspension of a galvanometer having a pair of nearly
astatic needles about 7 inches long. The steel needles could
be replaced by brass ones for the purpose of examining the
properties of the suspension.
   During the summer no disturbances worth attention were
noticed; but in the winter, when the use of the stove occa
sioned rapid changes of temperature, disturbances became
evident. The brass needles were employed throughout the
present investigation.
   The tables and diagrams which follow, except the last, all
refer to one and the same state of the wire, the suspended
weight not having been lifted during their progress. The
lifting of the weight entirely changes the condition of the
wire so far as these phenomena are concerned. The last
table and diagram exhibit a subsequent state in which the
phenomena are less distinct and in reversed direction.
   The angular position of the needles was read on a scale of
degrees attached to the circular glass shade surrounding
them. This position, which we may call the elongation, is
the abscissa of the diagrams. The temperature was mea
sured by a very sensitive thermometer with a long spiral
bulb, hung up alongside of the wire. The temperature in
degrees Fahrenheit forms the ordinate of the diagrams.
   The principal effects are as follows :—The elongation varies
between the limits of about 21° and 85°. Rising temperature
drives it up to about 85°, where it remains while the tempe
rature continues to rise. Falling temperature drives it down
to about 21°, where it remains while the temperature con
tinues to fall. The change of elongation is usually complete
or nearly so by the time that the reversed change of tempe
rature amounts to from 2° to 5°.
   If the change of temperature is reversed as soon as the
elongation reaches either of its limits, the line of the diagram
returns along its original course : see diagram, April 27th.
     * Communicated by the Physical Society : read May 14, 1887.

  Changes in Torsion ofaWire by Change of Temperature. 161
(The zigzags in the middle of this diagram arise from the
rapid movement setting the needles in vibration.)
    If the change of temperature is pushed in each direction
after the limiting elongation is attained, we obtain a cycle of
events which can be most simply represented by a parallelo
gram or series of parallelograms, such as the following:—
   Sir -
    70
     a
                        "
         i
                                                        Elongations
            30    40     iJ     SO     70     SO     90
    Here the vertical lines represent the limits of elongation,
the one corresponding to rising temperature, the other to
falling temperature. On reversal of the direction of change
of temperature such lines as the sloping lines are described.
The inclination of these is nearly constant, and they may lie
at any height hetween the lines of limiting elongation.
   The above figure is a typical representation of the character
of the principal effect; but the lines are never really straight,
and there are subsidiary effects, which, however, in the
present case are small compared with that above described.
    The tables and figures at the end of this paper explain
themselves.
    There was some difficulty in obtaining that part of the
curve which corresponds to the lower horizontal line of the
    Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 24. No. 147. August 1887. M

 162        Mr. R. H. M. Bosanquet on Sudden Changes in
 typical parallelogram, as the corresponding change of tempe
 rature usually took place in the small hours of the morning.
 The diagram May 4th-5th shows a case in which this part of
 the curve was obtained. This exhibits a subsidiary effect,
 which consists of a tendency to increase the elongation * in
 the neighbourhood of the lower limit when the temperature
 is constant. Another very clear case of this effect will be
 found on the diagram for April 28th. My impression is that
 conditions of wire are common in which this effect is consider
 ably developed. In such cases changes of temperature give
 rise to excursions, after which there is a more or less rapid
 return to a mean position.
    The observations and diagrams hitherto referred to deal
 with changes in the angular position of a body hanging from
 the wire at rest. Observations were also made of the periods
 of vibration, for the purpose of ascertaining what changes
 took place in the torsional rigidity of the wire. The results
 of these observations are as follows :—
                           Periods of vibration.
              Mean period.                        Number of
                              Mean elongation. obserTed  periods.
                 m.   s.
                  4  46             892                 4
                  4  63             88-5                4
                  4  41             854               13
                  6    0           846                  4
                  6  39             837                 4
                  6    3            77-0                4
                  6  52            721                12
                  6  33            579                  4
                 4   23            54-6                 2
                  5  33            46-4                 4
                  5  16            370                  2
                 3   56            350                  8
                 3     4           323                  2
                 2   29            28-6                 2
                 2   40            275                 4
   It appears from these numbers that the period of vibration
is least when the elongation is in the neighbourhood of the
lower limit, increases rapidly as the limit is departed from
up to a maximum value, and diminishes again slightly as the
upper limit is approached and attained; that is to say, the
torsion force has
      a maximum at the lower limit of elongation;
      a minimum between the limits;
      and an increase up to the upper limit.
   The observations for the period are necessarily complicated
  • /. e. to return from the lower limit towards the mean position.

       the Torsion of a Wire by Change of Temperature.    163
by the changes in the position of rest, and they are not of
great accuracy or consistency; but there can be no doubt that
the course of the values is as above described.
   It only remains to suggest what may
be possible in the way of explanation of
these phenomena. It appears to me
that the only way of throwing any light
on them is to imagine a mechanism ||
capable of producing angular changes
similar to those in question under the
influence of changes of temperature.
   A B are materials differently expan
sible by heat, capable of shifting, but
with difficulty, through the clamp which
binds them together.
   Suppose C to be free between D and
E ; then any change of temperature will
cause C to shift its position between D
and E, and the pinion F will be turned
round by the racks between which it
lies. As soon as C comes up either
against D or E the rotation of F is
stopped, and the bars are compelled to
shift in the clamp, if there is further
change of temperature.
   This arrangement exactly reproduces
the typical changes observed in the pre
sent experiments. It is intended to
serve the purpose of a formula.
   The suggestion which we obtain from
the above mechanism is that of loose
contact between the parts involved, in
this case probably between the molecules
of the metal. As these peculiarities
appear to originate in the extension of
the wire by the suspended weight, it is
possible that a partial separation of the
molecules involving loose contact may
arise out of this extension.
   In any such case the molecules would
bed against each other at the opposite
parts of the loose contact, under the
conditions which would give rise to either of the limiting
 elongations in the above experiments. The whole framework
 would be much stifFer when the loose contacts were thus
 bedded together than when they were free. In this way it
 would be possible to account for the increased values of the
                             M2

        164          Mr. R. H. M. Bosanquet on Sudden Changes in
        torsion force at the limiting elongations, and its lesser values
        in the intermediate region.
            It would be easy to imagine several types of framework
        with loose contacts which would be capable of realizing the
        phenomena ; but at present evidence in support of any
        particular arrangement would be wanting.
                      Observations of Temperature and Elongation.
         April 25th.         April 26th.         April 27th.   April 28th.        April 29th.         April 30th.
Time.
                Elonga tion.        Elonga tion.         §d ='        Elongation.        Elonga tion.        Elonga tion.
           a,                 Temp.              jTemp.  ° .2   Temp.              Temp.               Temp.
           a
           H                                            a
           0                   o                                 o                                      0
 9 A.M.   468    815         457     770         46-3    75-5  48-8    75-0       500     657         47-2    815
 9.15     47-8   840         460     770         475     792   49-5    77-0       504      713        490      820
 9.30     48-0   78-0        46-7     (8-5       48-1   802    505     800        51-0     75 0       498      820
 9.45     48-2   790         472     78-5        492     810   51-7    805        515      77-5       503     81-5
10.0      487    78-4        490     790         509     81 0  550     80-5       517     78-3        540     82-5
10.15     490    790         48-7    79-2        540     810   00-6    80-0       621     79-5        580      833
10.30     49-8   78-3        503     798         573     81-8  638     83-5       53-8    80-5        620      840
10.45     50-5   78-0        495     792         6U-2    812   675     840        58-4    79-6        66-2     81-5
11.0      510    783         49 7    78-8        62-5    813   706     816        635     783         71-5     820
11.15    514     78-3        495     79-2        63-3    82-2  72-4    81-2       683     80-2        74 1    80-8
11.30     516    783         496     79-2        65-2   825    733     81-2       69-6    80-5        76-2    810
11.45     51 0   78-8        49-7    79-4        665     830   735     81-5       700     81-5        762     81-2
12.0      51-8   78-8        502     795         689     83-0  728     81-5       698     81-5        770     827
12.15     524    79-0        503     79-7        694     823   72-4    82-5       69-6    81-5        7Cv3     82-5
12.30     53-8   785                   ...       690     82-3  720     82-0       69-5    82-5        750      823
12.45     540    78-7        50-2    79-3        69-2   82-5   716     82-0       690     820         650     78-ft
 1 P.M.   540    78-7        50-5    79-8        68-6    820   713     82-5       68-8    82-0        780     646
 2.0      542    79-2        497     78-0        76-5    85 0  70-7    830        668     82-0
 2.15     542    79-2        497     78-3        77 0    835   70-4    830        66-2    82 2
 2.30     544    790         496     78-0        77-7    835   70 0    82-5       660     83-0
 2.45     544    790         49-8    78-5        78-7    84-5  69-2    825        632     760
 3.0      545    78-8        506     80-2        803     845   08-6    840        61-4    505
 3.15     545    78-8        514     82-0        82-4    84-5  68-4    830        60-7    37-0
 3.30     547    78-8        534     82-0        84-3    840   681     798        599     29(>
 3.45     550    78-5        57-6    823         84-4    84-0  07-6    83-5       59-6     29-5       59-3    320
 4.0      55-0   77-7        60-3    830         84-6    84 0  67 0    77-5       590      275
 4.15     545    770         61-2    830         72-4    77-0  66-2    68-5       56-1     225
 4.30     545    767         620     840         700     650   65-5    61-0       55-5     22-5
 4.45     54-3   77-5        631     84-0        680     330   64-8    477        552      22-5
 5.0      54-3   77-5        64-2    833         666     263   04-3    400        54-6     220
 5.15                                                     ...  (13-7   345
 5.30     55-3   85-0        64-0    83-2        64-0    22-5  633     30-4       536     230
 5.45     555    880         626     83-2        66-0    270   01 -4   243        53-6    220
 6.0      55-2   820         62-6    82-3        685     36-7  601     220        54-8     22-5
 6.15     55-0    760        61-2    82-3        (58-3   36-8  59-0    21-0       62-8    20-8        56-5    25-5
 6.30     55-0   71-3        60-7    82-2        69-5    (.00  59-6    21-8       518     21-7
 6.45     54-4   605         601     82-4        70-7    700   591     21-3       51-3    21 -S
 7.0      53-7   5(>3        59-5    82-0        745     850   560     21-3       50-7     220
 7.15     530    40-3        590     80-0        76-1    850   54-8    21 0       50-0    208
 7.30     52-5   330         587     792         76-5   84-3   546     21-0       492     225
 7.45     522    295         58- 1   78-5        760    83-5   54-6    21-5       490     21-0
 8.0     520     27-0        578     75-0        75-7   82-0   54-0    21 -a      48-7    210

                  the Torsion of a Wire by Change of Temperature.                                    165
              May 2nd.          May 3rd.            May 4th.          May 5th.          May 7th.        May 9th.
Time.              longa tion.       longation.          longa tion.        onga tion.         M             longa tion.
              Q.
              3
                                                    d,                it
                                                                      6
                                                                                         a,   ao BoS    d.
                                                                                                        a
                                                    |                                   EH|
             H                       «                   H            &    m                 a         &H    W
              o                                                                                         0
 9 A.M.     4(>-2   75-5       oh     83-0        560     365        580   830         50-0  122-5    57-4  102-5
 9.15       465     77-5                                             553    690        50-2  122 0    58-7    980
  9.30      4t5-7   78-5                          541     23-5       55-0   590        50-5  1198     592     96-8
  9.45      470     78-5                          538     232        64-9   D5-5       518   1150     60-5     950
10.0        476     800                           53-5    230                          523   1060     61-5     920
10.15       482     80-5                          53-3    235                          53-5  1010     64-3     845
10.30       49-3    81-0                          530     235                          56-8    900    70-0     830
10.45       504     80-5       65-3   87-5        528     23-5                                        72-7     815
11.0        515      810       680    870         528     240                                         76-2     81-8
11.15                          G9-0   850         52-6    24-5                         69-8    78-5   78-8     80-8
11.30       57'5    85-0       70-2   86-0        52-7    260                          716     80-7   80-2     80-0
11.45                          70-4   850         52-7    29 0                         735     790    820      80-0
12.0        62-5    820                           52-7    30-5                         651     82-5   820      80-3
 12.15                                            53-0     300                         633     87-5   81-7     80-5
 12.30      670      83-5                         52-7     300                         61-5    945    81-5     810
 12.45      67 2     82-0                         526      29-0                        60-7    96-5   81-2     81-5
   1 P.M.   680      82-0                         528      335                         612     98-5   810      82-5
 2.0        692      837       69-7    86-0       52-6     385                                        79-3     92-0
 2.15       60S      79-0                         526      39-5                                       69-2   1175
 2.30       602     76-5                          527      40-5                                       68-2   124-5
 2.45       578      700                          522      39-5                                       67-4   1230
 3.0                                              52-2     410                                        67-3   123 0
 3.15       67-5     590                                                                              67-0   1230
 3.30        58-4    605                                     ...      ...                             660    122-8
 3.45                                             51-8     34-5                                       65-1   122-8
 4.0        60-3     86-0                                                                             650    1230
  4.15                                                                                                65-0   1230
 4.30        58-5    69-0                         5-i:o    34-5                                       655    123-5
  4.45                                                                                                64-5   1230
  5.0        57-5    45:0      62-5    40-0       50-8     36:0                                       650    123 0
  5.15
  5.30       560     330       61-5    30-0       50-7     400                                        64-3   1230
  5.45                                                                                                64-3   123-0
  6.0        53-6    26-0                         50-5     4V5                                        650    1230
  6.15                                                                                                 63-5  1230
  6.30       52-5    22-7                         50:5     42*                                         63-5  1230
  6.45                                                                                  59-7 121-5     630   1230
  7.0        51-8    22-0      590     23:0        50-8    43:5       ...      ...                     62-8  1230
        After May 5th the wire was readjusted, and the subsequent readings refer to an altered
                                                condition of the wire.

166                Mr. C. V. Burton on the Value
                    Supplementary Observations.
          Date.          Time.         Temp.         Elongation.
   April 25             9.30 p.m.       49-0             24-5
        „ 25           10.0             485              230
        „ 26           10.45            50-8             22-5
        „ 27            9.20            637              23-0
        „ 28           10-20            54-5             25-0
        „ 29            9.20            500              245
        „ 29           11.0             48-6             255
        „ 30           11.20            458              23-5
   May 4               10.0             486              400
     .,    4           11.0             56-8             86-0
           5           11.0             61-8            1180
           6            7.45            51-0            124-0
           6            9.20            52-5            124-5
           8            9.15            590             1240
     „ 10               8.50 a.m.       54-7            1435
           XIX. On the Value of "y" for a Perfect Gas.
              By Chakles V. Bukton, B.Sc. (Land.) .*
fl^HE ratio, 7, between the two elasticities or the two spe-
 JL cific heats has been measured, in the case of gases, by
various experimental methods. Some of these methods are
based on the assumption that the gas in question may be con
sidered approximately perfect.
    The object of the following investigation is to show that 7
has the same value (J) for all perfect gases, and can be cal
culated for this hypothetical class of bodies from purely
theoretical considerations.
    Let us take a certain portion of perfect gas whose volume
is v, pressure p, and molecular kinetic energy W. The iso
thermal elasticity of the gas under these conditions,
   Now, in order to find the isentropic elasticity, let the gas be
compressed adiabatically until its volume is diminished by dv,
the volume after compression being v K = v—dv ; and the pres
sure being at the same time increased to pl=p + dp.
                  * Communicated by the Author.

                     of " j"/ora Perfect Gas.            167
    Let the work done in compressing the gas be dW; and W,
 the kinetic energy after compression. Then, since the gas is
 a perfect one,
                  Wj = W + <fW
                      = W+pdv in the limit.
Now, by a well-known relation, we have
                   pv =§W,
                  P,t»,»iWI=§(W+prf»); }
                .        KW+pdv)
               ¦ • P\        ri
                      _pv + %pdv
                           v~dv
                      ¦*(»<U+2666>}¦ SX'+?)
                     -'('+»*)'
                   ,
             ••• dp=Pl-p=       5 . dv
                                ^p
Therefore the isentropic elasticity
                                 -5*-
             5
So that 7= o for all perfect gases,
             o

                            [   168   ]
              XX. On the Law of Molecular Force.
            By William Sutherland, M.A., B.Sc*
                      [Concluded from p. 134.]
IT is not difficult to illustrate how profoundly the relations
      of pressure and density of saturated vapour may be
affected by capillary action at temperatures near the critical.
 Sir William Thomson has shown (Proc. Roy. Soc. Edinb.,
 Feb. 1870) that, if inside a closed vessel containing a liquid
and its vapour a capillary tube dips into the liquid, the
pressure of saturation p of the vapour in contact with the
free curved surface of the liquid in the capillary tube is con
nected with •or, the pressure of saturation of the vapour in
contact with the plane surface, by the equation
                              Eo- /l     1\
                    p—vs
                    r                    -)>
                                   (- + r)
                             p — o-\r
where E is the surface energy of the liquid per unit area,
a the average density of the vapour between the levels of the
free surfaces of the liquid inside and outside the capillary
tube, p the density of the liquid, r and r1 are the principal
radii of curvature of the curved surface of the liquid in the
tube, reckoned as positive when the surface is concave to the
vapour, that is when the liquid rises in the tube.
   At temperatures near the critical, when a becomes nearly
equal to p, the factor    °    becomes very large.   It has been
assumed by some writers that Ei                 vanishes at the
critical temperature, and therefore becomes very small at
temperatures near the critical, on the supposition that, as the
critical temperature is the limiting temperature at which
capillary elevation or depression can occur in a tube, the
plane surface is naturally the limiting form which the free
surface of the liquid in a capillary tube attains at the critical
temperature. But that the plane surface is not a limiting
case is shown by such an ordinary example as the convex
meniscus of mercury in a glass tube. However, we have the
definite experiments of Wolf (Ann. de Chim. et de Phys.
3 ser. xlix., 1857) to show that the plane surface is not the
limiting form of a capillary meniscus at the critical tem
perature ; for he found that sulphuric ether, sulphide of
carbon, naphtha, and alcohol at temperatures near their
                  * Communicated by the Author.

                On the Law of Molecular Force.               1 69
critical were depressed in capillary tubes of 2 millim. dia
meter, and presented markedly convex surfaces. Thus, for
these substances, E/- + —\ acquires a measurable negative
           ...    . y rJ .            E<r /l      1\
value, and the whole expression — -—          4- —jj may acquire
a large positive value at temperatures near the critical. We
thus see how the pressure of saturation of C02 for tem
peratures below but near the critical temperature, as obtained
by experiments in capillary tubes, might differ greatly from
those obtained by experiments in large vessels. This, then,
illustrates the origin of the apparent conflict between the
experiments of Regnault and of Andrews.
    Some experiments of Kayser's (Wiedemann's Ann. xv.)
 bring out in a clear manner the difference between the laws
 of compressibility and dilatation of a fluid as studied in
 capillar}' tubes and in large vessels. When S02 is com
 pressed at 0° C. in a vessel containing a quantity of powdered
 glass, it shows no pressure of saturation ; its isothermal is a
 continuous curve representing quite a different relation be
 tween pressure and volume from that which holds when SOa
 is compressed free from capillary restraint.
    The full explanation of these facts will be forthcoming only
 when the capillary theory of Laplace and Gauss receives com
 pletion in regard to the matter which, as it left their hands, it
 has proved inadequate to explain, namely, the influence of
 temperature in capillary phenomena. The equation of Gauss
 for the potential energy of a mass of liquid enclosed in a solid
 vessel contains three terms, representing the potential energy
  of the liquid due to gravity, that which corresponds to the
  mutual attractions of its molecules, and that which corre
 sponds to the attractions between the molecules of the liquid
 and those of the solid ; four terms should be added to make
  the equation complete as regards the whole mass of a fluid
  partly liquid and partly vapour,—namely, a term to represent
  the potential energy of the vapour due to gravity, that which
  corresponds to the mutual attractions of the molecules of
  vapour, that which corresponds to the actions between liquid
  and vapour, and finally that which corresponds to the actions
  between solid and vapour.
     Having discovered that the discarded equation is thus in
  excellent agreement with Regnault's work on C02 in bulk,
  and that the differences between its results at 35°'5 in the
  neighbourhood of the critical point and those of Andrews and
  Amagat are traceable entirely to the experimental circum
  stances, I resumed my study of it and proceeded to test its

 170                 Mr. W. Sutherland on the
  ower to give the pressures of saturated vapour of C02 as
  etermined bv Thilorier (Ann. de Chim. et de Phys. 2 sir. lx.
 1835), Mitchell (Journ. Franklin Inst. xxvi. 1838), Faraday
 (Phil. Trans. 1845), Regnault (Mdm. de I'Acad, des Sciences,
 xxvi.), and Andrews (Proc. Roy. Soc. xxiii. 1874-75).
    To Maxwell (Journ. Chem. Soc. 1875) we owe the method
 of obtaining the pressure of saturation of a fluid at any tem
 perature from its characteristic equation. Accepting James
 Thomson's suggestion that the isothermal for a fluid below its
 critical temperature, when traced by means of the charac
 teristic equation for the fluid, ought to be a continuous curve
 lying partly above and partly below the isopiestic of satu
 ration, he showed from thermodynamical considerations that
 the area enclosed by the part above the isopiestic should be
 equal to that enclosed by the part below. Expressed in
 symbols, this is
where P is the pressure of saturation at temperature T, vs is
the volume of the saturated vapour at T°, and vl the volume
of the liquid at T° and pressure P; so that t>3 and », are the
greatest and least of the three real roots for v of the charac
teristic equation, when the temperature has the value T and
the pressure the value P. Applying this condition to the
equation for C02, we obtain the following equation for the
pressure of saturation at T° as a function of T:—
              p(*-*>=£(^V^>-
where v3 and », are the greatest and least real roots of the
equation
                                — rT—1
                       P«=oTe»^+£i—L.
                                       v
The only part of the integral which is not integratable is that
involving the exponential factor, which, however, can be
expressed as the difference of two exponential integrals which
are now regarded as primary, since the tabulation of values
for them by Soldner, Bretschneider, and more elaborately by
J. W. L. Glaisher (Phil. Trans. 1870). However, as the
values of ra and are indeterminable functions of P and T,
we are unable to use the tables in the present application of
the integral, and must content ourselves with determining P
graphically—that is, by tracing the isothermal for certain

                            Law of Molecular Force.                        171
 definite numerical values of T, and then by trial drawing the
 isopiestic for P so that it cuts off equal areas.
     In the subjoined table I give the pressures of saturation as
 found by the different experimenters and by Maxwell's prin
  ciple with the characteristic equation. Two series of deter
  minations by Regnault are given. Regnault is the only
  observer who has reduced his air-manometer pressure to true
  metres of mercury; but I have not thought it worth while to
  apply any correction to the results of the other observers, in
  view of the other larger sources of error that cannot be
  allowed for. I have simply multiplied their pressures in
  atmospheres by "76. The first row of numbers gives the
  temperatures of observation and the second the corresponding
  saturation pressures.
                         Saturation Pressures of COg.
            1
                                                                Andrews Maxwell's
            ¦ Thilorier. Mitchell. Faraday. Regnuult, Regnault,
                                                         II.     (oapill. principle
                                                                             and
                                                                 tubes). equation.
             1
Temp. C...      30-00      30-00               30-90     29-30    28-3       30
Pressure...     5548       54-72               53-35     54-41    53-5       49
Temp. C...       0          0         0         0-25      018       0        0-21
Pressure...     2736       27-36     29-26     2717      26-82     2663      26-2
Temp. C...                         -2610     -25-8     -25-5               -25 50
Pressure...                          13-53     12-9      12-9                 13-35
      It will be seen that the equation gives results as good as
   are to be looked for in view of the differences in the different
   experimental determinations. The only number that is quite
   out of harmony with all the experimental determinations
   is 49, the pressure of saturation yielded by the equation
   for 30°; but when we see that at 30a9 Regnault gets 53'35
   in his first series, and that he finds a pressure greater by
   1 metre, namely 54*41, in his second series for a temperature
    l°-6 lower, which is equivalent to a difference of 2 metres out
   of 50 in measurements made at the same temperature, we
    cannot regard the difference of 49 from the experimental
    numbers as serious, especially when we find Faraday's estimate

172                 Mr. W. Sutherland on the
at 0° greater by about 2 metres out of 30 than the mean
of Regnault's determinations at nearly the same tem
perature.
   If we desire to carry the application of our equation to much
lower temperatures, we are met by the difficulty that solid
C03 melts according to Faraday at a temperature of —57°
under a pressure of 5*33 atmospheres; and according to Reg-
nault, at a temperature of — 78°-2 solid C02 evaporates freely
into the air under a pressure of 760 millim. Now at these
temperatures and pressures a kilogramme of C02 can exist
entirely in the solid, entirely in the liquid, and entirely in the
gaseous state ; so that its true and complete characteristic
equation has three real roots for v corresponding to these
three states, and it must also have two real roots corresponding
to physically impossible homogeneous passage from the
gaseous to the liquid and from the liquid to the solid states.
 Thus at these temperatures and pressures our equation ought
to give five real roots for v, which it does not do, nor does any
equation yet proposed. But it is enough for the present if
we bridge the discontinuity between the gaseous and liquid
states ; much experimental work remains to be done before we
can do so for the solid and liquid states by means of a single
continuous equation. However, to get an idea as to how far
the equation, when applied by means of Maxwell's principle,
assumed still to hold, would succeed in giving the pressure of
saturation at these temperatures, I made the necessary calcu
lations, and found for the pressure of saturation at —57°
5 metres of mercury, instead of 5"33 atmospheres as Faraday
determined it, and at —78° 1*5 metres or 2 atmospheres,
instead of I atmosphere as Regnault found it or 1*14 atmo
sphere as Faraday.
   When we pass on to test the equation by its power to give
the volume of liquid C02 at different temperatures and pres
sures, we are met by remarkable discord amongst the experi
mental results. The subjoined table contains the volume in
litres of a kilogramme of liquid C03 under pressures of 100,
200, and 300 atmospheres, as determined in capillary tubes
by Cailletet and Hautefeuille ( Comptes Rendus, xcii.) at the
temperatures 0° and —23° C., as determined in capillary
tubes by Amagat for 18° C. (Ann. de Chim. et de Phys. 5 ser.
xxii.), and as furnished by the equation for the same tem
peratures.

                           Law of Molecular Force.                          173
           Volumes of 1 kilogramme of Liquid C0a, in litres.
                      18°.                   0°.                     - 23°.
                                   Cailletet                 Cailletet
              Amagat. Equation.       and        Equation.      and        Kquation.
                                 Hautet'euille.            Haulefeuille.
100 atmoaph.    1169       1-266      1016         1153        0-916         1-064
200    „        1065       1142      0-962         1-071       0-888         1010
300     „       1-025      1064      0-931         1016        0809          0-971
        It will be observed that the volumes given by the equation
    are all larger than those given by experiment. But at the
    lower pressures the disagreement is such as we are not
    unprepared to meet if we admit that capillary action alters
    the critical temperature from 420,8 to 31°, and also produces
    the discrepancies between Amagat's and Andrews's deter
    minations for 35°'5 ; for from the numbers tabulated before
     for 350-5 we see that the deformation of the isothermals due
     to capillary action is greatest for pressures about 100 atmo
     spheres, and we cannot expect the deformations to disappear
     in a sudden manner as we pass from 35°"5 to 18°. At the
     higher pressures the numbers given by the equation for 18°
     approach towards equality with those of Amagat; but the
     differences between the equation numbers and Cailletet and
     Hautefeuille's for the same temperature still amount to about
      10 per cent, even at the high pressures. But the determina
     tions of these experimenters and those of Amagat are not
      reconcilable with one another, as can be seen by forming the
      products pv and converting to Amagat's units, and plotting
      the results on Amagat's diagrams representing all his own
      experimental results {Ann. de Chim. el de Phys. 5 ser. xxii.);
      and in a less striking manner we can see the discrepancies by
      noting that the expansion between 0° and 18° as reckoned
      from Amagat's and Cailletet and Hautefeuille's results is
      much greater than that reckoned from —23° to 0°, although
      the latter interval is nearly 13 times the former. The
      following table shows this conflict in the experimental
      results :—

 174                   Mr. W. Sutherland on the
                 Changes of Volume of Liquid CO:
                               From 0° to 18°.    From -23° to 0°.
        100 atmospheres . . .        103                •100
        200                         •103                •074
        300                         •0U4                •062
    The following table contains a comparison of the volumes in
litres of a kilogramme of liquid C02 in contact with its satu
rated vapour at different temperatures, as determined by
Thilorier (Ann. de Chim. et de Phys. 2 se>. lx., 1835), Mitchell
  Journ. Franklin Inst, xxvi., 1838), and Cailletetand Mathias
  Comptes Rendus, cii. May 1886), and by the equation.
Volumes, in litres, of a kilogramme of Liquid C02 in contact
                      with its Saturated Vapour.
                                            Equa          Cailletet Equa
  Temp. Thilorier. Equa
                    tion. Temp. Mitchell. tion. Temp. Mathias.
                                                             and     tion.
      o
   -20    1111     1-124                            -23     0-965   1124
                               o
      0   1-205    1-242       0    108     1-242      0    1-087   1-242
     30   1-670    1-600      23    1-36    1-450     13    1-220   1-346
                                                      22    1-380   1-443
   While the equation is found to give results in excellent
accord with Thilorier's determinations, it is in serious dis
accord with those of Mitchell and of Cailletet and Mathias.
Unfortunately Thilorier does not describe how he determined
his densities ; so that we cannot imagine the cause of such a
large difference as that which exists between his determinations
1-205 at 0° and 1-087, the value found by Cailletet and Mathias,
or l-08 by Mitchell at the same temperature. Mitchell obtained
his results by weighing the liquid in minute bulbs. Cailletet
and Mathias first determined the density of saturated vapour
of C02 at different temperatures in capillary tubes ; then they
introduced liquid C02 in unequal quantities into two vertical
tubes containing mercury and communicating with one another
by a horizontal tube containing mercury ; the two tubes were
brought to the temperature desired, and the difference of level

                    Law of Molecular Force.                   175
of the mercury in them was observed, and also the height of
each of the columns of liquid C0S ; the density of the liquid
was then obtainable in terms of these measurements, and the
determined density of the saturated vapour. The vapour-den
sities were determined from — 23° C. to 30°, and the liquid-
densities from —34° to 22°; and both sets of densities were
then represented graphically in one diagram with temperatures
for abscissae and densities for ordinates. The two branches of
the curve ought to pass into one another at the critical tem
perature ; Cailletet and Mathias, completing the curve for the
small portion thatwas not determined by experiment, according
to the obvious tendencies of the determined portions, found the
critical temperature to lie between 31° and 32°. Thus, again,
we meet a determination of the critical temperature in discord
with Regnault's work. Probably most of the discord can be
traced to the determination of the vapour-densities in capillary
tubes, in which it has been shown that the density of satura
tion near the critical temperature may be very different from
the density of saturation of the vapour in contact with a
plane surface of the liquid and at the same pressure. The
form of Cailletet and Mathias's curve would have to be consi
derably altered if 420-8 is the true critical temperature of C02;
but how far a change in the density of the liquid would have
to contribute to this alteration of form we cannot say.
   Thus, then, with the experimental evidence at present
available, we cannot construct any equation which will bridge
over the discontinuity between the liquid and gaseous states
satisfactorily ; because, if it represents the results of some
experiments, it will fail to represent others of equal weight. I
can only draw attention to the fact that Thilorier, whose deter
minations of pressure agree excellently with Regnault's, found
densities differing by as much as 15 per cent, from those of
Cailletet and Mathias. There is certainly occasion for an
experimental inquiry (and much promise of interesting results
to those who have the facilities for making one) into the effect
of extent of surface in contact with solid and curvature of
surface on the compressibility and dilatability of fluids. There
ought to be a physical effect corresponding to each term in the
equation of Gauss for the energy of a fluid enclosed in a solid.
    Before passing on to consider the equation in its thermo
dynamic aspect, it may be well to give an idea of its corre
 spondence with experiment at low pressures and high tempe
 ratures. Amagat has given (Comptes Rendus, xciii., 1881) the
following values of the ratio ^7 at different temperatures
                                  pV
 where p' is about 2*85 metres of mercury and « = 2r', and the

176                  Mr. W. Sutherland on the
values of the same ratio, as calculated from the equation, are
furnished for comparison :—
                          Values of A—.-
                                      p'v
                              60°.   100c.    200°.     300°.
                           10145   1 -008"   1 0040    1-0020
                           10144   1-0080    10028     10001
   The agreement is satisfactory at the high temperatures, if
it is remembered that the values of the ratio given by experi
ment cannot be considered to be free from an error of at least
1 in 1000. But it must also be borne in mind how limited the
range of temperature is which I was restricted to using in
determining the form of Dr. Walter's function /9, on account
of the unknown amount of distortion which the isothermal for
35°*5 experiences through capillary action both in Amagat's
and Andrews's experiments, a distortion which is most serious
at the most important part of the curve. I have shown that,
as regards C03, the experimental evidence is in such a state
that no form can with finality be proved to be the one fit and
proper form. The equation which I have given possesses the
merit of representing the compressibility of C02 at 100° and
at 70° up to a pressure of 400 atmospheres, of having revealed
 the important effect of capillary action on the circumstance of
the critical state, and of giving the saturation pressures of C02
 almost exactly as they have been experimentally determined.
    The discussion, to which I proceed, of our equation in the
 light of the thermal effects studied by Thomson and Joule
 when gases are allowed to escape from under pressure through
 porous plugs, and of Regnault's experiments on the expansion
 of gases, is now of the utmost importance, as in these experi
 ments we have to do with changes in the molecular potential
 energy.
    According to the law of the inverse fourth power, without
 further hypothesis, we saw that the potential energy of a
 number of molecules is % of the virial of their mutual attrac-
                            3                  t    § . —i is
                                                           . the virial
 tions. Now, in the characteristic      equation,
 of the molecular attraction, and 1 1 f— — — ^ is the change
 of the virial on the expansion of the gas from volume to
 volume vt. Hence the change of molecular potential energy

                      Law of Molecular Force.                177
 due to the same expansion is I ^ ^- — ^ ^.      Bat, apart from
 molecular theory entirely, we have Thomson's thermodynamic
 equation for the cooling-effect 8 which a gas experiences
 in expanding through a porous plug from volume »! to
 volume vs,—
               K'S = i! ' l^""^) dV +P*v*~PiVl '
 where it is to be noted that 6 means temperature taken as the
 reciprocal of Carnot's function and measured on Thomson's
 absolute thermodynamic scale, Kp is the mean specific heat of
 the gas in dynamic units between its temperatures on the high-
 and low-pressure sides of the plug, pt and pi are the values of
 the pressure on the low- and high-pressure sides respectively,
 and t'g and Vi are the volumes occupied by a kilogramme of
 the gas at the pressures ps and px and at the temperature which
 prevails on the high-pressure side of the plug.
     From the characteristic equation we have
                    dp      rW,      ,   b \ . c
                                       v VT/ v
 Within the experimental range of temperature we may
 consider                   _      _
                            OP _ OP
                                                           b
 and within the range of volumes we can replace e"^ by
  1 H—^7= ; whence
      v vT
              tt^=a + ^          + ~ approximately;
 also
                pv = aT!-\—        -—^—approximately;
j;(4g_?)*=f;{^-T,-^(^-(<-T>.-0
 where, as before, A = # — T.
     Now, in the formation of the original equation for 8 it is
 supposed that heat is imparted to the gas on the low-pressure
  side of the plug, until at the constant pressure p3 prevailing
     Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 24. No. 147. August 1887.      N

178                    Mr. W. Sutherland on the
there it acquires the temperature which it had on the high-
pressure side. The escaping gas does work ptv2 on the
atmosphere, but at the same time it has work            done on it
by the gas behind, so that p2v3 —p\Vi is the total external
work done by the gas ; but the gas also gains potential
energy by expansion, so that the total loss of kinetic energy
is equal to the sum of these two quantities. But KpS is the
quantity of energy which has to be given to the gas after its
loss of kinetic energy to bring its temperature back to what
it was on the high-pressure side. Now, if the temperature of
a body were a function of only the kinetic energy of its
molecules, we could say that Kp8 is the change of the kinetic
energy of a kilogramme of gas on account of the expansion ;
but the characteristic equation shows that temperature is not
a function of only the kinetic energy, for it asserts that the
kinetic energy of translation of the molecules in a kilogramme
            ~~= -\—
is 3-zi/ ae'J'1'   c \)T, whence we see that we cannot consider
    2\ . . v/
KPB as giving accurately the total change of kinetic energy
due to the performance of external work and the gain of
potential energy. But if from Kp8 we subtract                 P\v\i
we shall get a remainder depending for the most part on the
change of potential energy due to expansion. If, then, we
bear in mind the values already given for the constants of the
characteristic equation, and the value '7 for A, we see from
the last equation abo\e that the greater part of the said
remainder arises from the term I                , which, according
to the molecular theory, expresses the change of molecular
potential energy.         The term aA log ^ is small in com
parison with l(-— —^ ; but its meaning is very important,
as it is bound up with the difficult question of the dynamical
explanation of the second law of thermodynamics. The term
Ac^— — — ^ may be taken with aA log ^ , but it is really
negligible ; while the last term,            — ~~^> neglecting A
in the numerator, arises from the fact that the relation between
the kinetic energy of the molecules of a gas and its temperature
involves the volume occupied, and therefore varies with ex
pansion. In fact, — ^a^_ ^—             represents a heating- effect

                      Law of Molecular Force.                179
doe to this cause that almost exactly neutralizes the cooling-
effect, <»A log —, within the range of the actual experiments ;
so that the part of the total cooling-effect not due to external
work reduces, on numerical substitution, almost exactly to the
value of the term l(-— —Y          Thus, then, we see that the
general discussion of the characteristic equation in the light
of Thomson's equation for the cooling-effect shows that the
potential energy of the molecules of a kilogramme of C02 may
be taken as represented by       and is therefore § of the virial
of their mutual attractions. Whence, in view of the general
considerations adduced at the commencement of this paper,
we may consider the law of the inverse fourth power to be
established.
    We will now proceed to calculate the total cooling-effects 8,
and compare them with those obtained experimentally for C03
 by Thomson and Joule (" Fluids in Motion," part ii., Phil.
Trans. 1854 ; part iv., 1862 ; also ' Mathematical and Phy
sical Papers of Sir William Thomson,' vol. i.; and Joule's
 Scientific Papers, vol. ii. pp. 247, 342) and by Regnault
 (" Sur la detente des Gaz, M4m. de VAcad, des Sciences,
 xxxvii.).
    Making the same approximations as previously, we get
       ™-64,){i-(-vT+e)T};
 We see that, except for the small term aA log — , 8 is pro-
               11          . .       . .            Vl
 portional to -— —, or within the limits of pressure employed
 by Thomson and Joule to pi—pi- This was the first result
 discovered by Thomson and Joule ; and, in accordance with
 it, they reduced their determinations to the one standard of
 the cooling-effect experienced by the gas in escaping through
 a porous ping into the atmosphere under a pressure in excess
 of the atmospheric by that of 100 English inches, or 2'54 metres
 of mercury.
     In the following Table the numbers taken from Thomson
 and Joule's " Fluids in Motion," part ii., are marked II.;
  the others are from part iv. The values of Kp at differ
 ent temperatures have been obtained by interpolating from
                                N2

     180                Mr. W. Sutherland on the
     Regnault's data by the equation
                           K„=426(-187 + -00027<).
     Cooling-effects experienced by C04 when escaping at different
        temperatures through a porous plug into the atmosphere
        under an excess of pressure of 2'54 metres of mercury.
                         7°-38. 7°-96.    19°1. 35°-6. 64°.   91°-5. 93°-5. 97°-5.
Observed by Thomson 1 4-367 4-215 3-876 II. 3-407 2-951 2-348 II. 2164 2-135
Calculated from equation 3-940 3-920 3-670        3-330 3010 2-470      2-453 2-395
        When the great difficulty of these experiments with porous
     plugs is considered (they baffled Regnault himself, " Sur la
     detente des Gaz," p. 707) , the agreement between the calcu
     lated and observed cooling-effects will be seen to be satis
     factory. Regnault, while unable to get satisfactory results
    by the porous-plug method, obtained some valuable data by
    allowing gases to expand through a fine hole in a thin wall
    into a calorimeter, and also by allowing them to expand
    through silver capillary tubes of different lengths. As the
    excess of pressure which he employed was on the whole
    greater than the average excess in Thomson and Joule's
    experiments, and was such that we can no longer consider
              as proportional to px—p3, I have applied Thomson's
    equation for the cooling-effect to the actual circumstances of
    each of Regnault's experiments.
    Cooling-effects experienced by COs in escaping at different
       temperatures into the atmosphere under different pressure-
       excesses.
      Temperature at Exoess     of pressure,
                             in millim.          Observed       Calculated
     the high pressure.     of mercury.        by Regnault.   from equation.
           -25 C.               7541               18-73           15-30
              3                 3354                5-43            550
              3                 7764               12-73           12-93
             15               38591               81-96           73-80
            100                 4682                4-72            4-34
            100                 7921                9-88            730

                     Law of Molecular Force.                   181
   If, for the moment, we set apart the results for 1 5° and — 25°,
on account of the large sources of experimental error incident
to the employment of the very high excess of pressure
(38591 millim., or 50 atmospheres) in the one set and the
low temperature in the other, we find the agreement to be
excellent, except in the case of the high excess (7921) at
100°, where Regnault found a cooling of 90,88, and the
equation gives 7°-30 ; but here the experiment is evidently at
fault, because, while the pressure-excess is not much more
than \ of 4682, the cooling-effect is more than double 40-72—
a result in complete disaccord with all Thomson and Joule's
and Regnault's general results.
   With regard to Regnault's number for 15°, obtained from
capillary-tube experiments, we can see at once how the expe
riments are certain to yield too great a cooling-effect ; for it
is certain that the gas at the high-pressure end of the capillary
tube, which is assumed to be all at the temperature 15° of the
bath surrounding it, cannot be at that temperature quite close
to the capillary tube, where the gas is doing work at the great
rate due to the excess of pressure of 50 atmospheres ; thus it
is certain that the gas is cooled before it enters the capillary
tube. Under these circumstances we may consider the agree
ment between the experimental cooling-effect 810,96 and the
theoretical one of 730-8 to be all that could be expected. The
same sort of remarks apply to the experimental determination
at —25° (the number given above is the mean of five deter
minations made by Eegnault).
    Thus, then, the experiments of Regnault, which the great
experimenter lamented as having cost him all too dear in
thought, effort, and time for the results achieved, no less than
 those which cost the great English experimenters so much
time valuable to science, are of fundamental value to molecular
physics, if it is allowed that the agreement between them and
the results deduced from the characteristic equation for COs
is such as to justify the statement that the potential energy
of the molecules of a kilogramme of COs occupying a volume v
is —, and is equal to § of the virial of the molecular attraction.
    As Thomson and Joule and Regnault conducted expansion
experiments on air, further light may be obtained by a brief
discussion of them.
    In constructing a characteristic equation for air I used
Amagat's data for 16° (Comptes Rendus, xcix.), and his
general result that, at 100° and up to 8-atmospheres' pressure,
 the departures of air from the Boyle-Mariotte law were too
small to be measurable. These, with Regnault's value for the

182                  Mr. W. Sutherland on the
coefficient of expansion of air under a pressure of one at
mosphere, and for the density of air, led to the following
equation :—
                            = avT       I .
                         PV v—c         V
with the following values for the constants when the unit of
pressure is that of a kilogramme weight per square metre and
the unit of volume is a cubic metre, v being the volume
occupied by a kilogramme of air :—
               a = 29-3,   c= -001056,    1= 12-372.
   This equation was intended for use only within the range
of pressures of Thomson and Joule's experiments ; hut it
happens to give the critical temperature and pressure of air
with considerable accuracy. When these are determined as
for C02, we get the critical temperature as —154° C, the
critical pressure as 40 atmospheres, and the critical volume of
a kilogramme of air as "003167 cubic metres. Wroblewski's
determinations (Wiedemann's Ann. xxvi. 1885) make the
critical temperature about — 140° O. and the critical pressure
about 40 atmospheres. We have seen in the case of COa how
a difference of +10° is possible between the true critical tem
perature of a gas and its critical temperature in a capillary
tube ; hence the above equation for air, though constructed on
limited data, is probably as accurate an equation as is possible
with our present data.      The values of the ratio ~p given by
it for 4° C. do not agree exactly with those given by Kegnault's
equation for 4°,
      S^=l- -001 1054                + -00001938      _ 1Y.
   Thus, for example, when ^=15 atmospheres, Eegnault's
equation gives
                            ^ = 1-0117;
                           Po^o
while the equation above gives 1'0085. The difference is due
 to the fact that Eegnault's determinations at 4° and Amagat's
 at 16° are not strictly reconcilable with one another. Amagat's
 were made in capillary tubes ; but as he has pushed his deter
 minations to higher pressures lhan Eegnault, so as to pass the
 point for which pv is a minimum, and is thus likely to have
 obtained with more accuracy the general sense of the changes
 in pv, I adopted his results, seeing that the discrepancy is

                     Law of Molecular Force.                1B3
more likely to be due to a slight misestimation on Regnault's
part of the small differences of his ratios from 1 than to
capillary action in Amagat's tube, which, at the temperature
and pressure in question, must be slight ; but the point is one
not unworthy of being inquired into, whether the slight discord
between Ilegnault's and Amagat's experiments is due to
capillary action.
   To determine from the equation the cooling-effects expe
rienced by air in passing through porous plugs, we can write
it in the form
         I— -*(i+v)-v
               = aAlQg^+«CA(I-l;) + i(i-J-)+m-m.
Here, as before, Kp8 is the quantity of energy which has to be
imparted to the gas on the low-pressure side to bring, not the
kinetic energy, but the temperature of the gas to its original
value on the high-pressure side. If we subtract p3i'2—
from this, and neglect the term involving c, on account of its
smallness, we have aAlog— +              —\ as the amount of
energy imparted to compensate not only for conversion of
the amount of kinetic energy l(-— —\ into potential energy,
but also to compensate for the cooling a A log — which would
occur even in a gas for which Z = 0, or in the ideal perfect
gas.
    Many writers have ignored this result of the difference A
 which Thomson and Joule demonstrated to exist between the
 temperature of melting ice, as measured on the absolute
 thermodynamic and the air-thermometers, and they have
 asserted that, for a perfect gas whose equation is pv = aT the
 cooling-effect obtainable must be zero ; whereas, while the
 equation for air at temperatures near 100° C. may be written
pv=aT, Thomson and Joule were able to demonstrate a quite
 measurable cooling-effect at that temperature. Before the
 cooling-effect for a body can be zero, its equation must be

184                    Mr. W. Sntherland on the
pv = a$.      The import of the term a A log J is therefore
thermodynamical, and cannot at present be explained on
 purely molecular grounds. Its relative importance in the
case of air is much greater than in that of CO* ; for at 0° C.
its value is       of that of l(-— —Y and at 100° it is $ of it.
Taking account of the fact, then, that a A log — has nothing
to do directly with the forces acting between the molecules,
we find, in the purely thermodynamic estimate of the energy
imparted to the expanding gas to keep its temperature con
stant, the term l(-— —Y            But this is the term which our
theory of molecular force would lead us to expect as repre
 senting the change of kinetic energy due to increase of
potential energy. Hence we may consider it as proved that
the molecular potential energy of a kilogramme of air occu
pying a volume v is — •
   For the total cooling effect we get, on substituting for
Ptv»~PiDi its value,
         K,8=aAlogJ+(i-i){2Z-«<!(T-A)}.
As »! and v2 are directly proportional to T, if pl and p3 have
always the same values at different temperatures, the term
                 is constant, and when evaluated numerically is
almost equal to aA log ^, within the range of Thomson and
Joule's experiments; so that KpS reduces nearly, but not quite,
to 2* (^-,t); whence we find the cooling-effect propor
tional to p\—pz, which is the experimental result.
 Cooling-effects for Air escaping at different temperatures
   through porous plugs into the atmosphere under an excess
   of pressure of 100 English inches, or 2*54 metres of
   mercury.
                             7°'l.      17°.     39°-5.   92° 8.
   Observed by Thomson 1      ¦88      ¦86 II.    •75       •51
   Calculated from equation   ¦96      •93        ¦86       •72

                     Law of Molecular Force.                185
   The calculated numbers are all larger than the observed ;
but we must take account of the smallness of the quantities
and the magnitude of the possible experimental errors : thus,
the experimental cooling for 17°, namely '86°, is the mean of
the results of seven series of experiments, the extremes being
¦806° and *958°. Moreover, Regnault's determinations seem
to show that Thomson and Joule's results for air are perhaps
somewhat too small. Thus, as the mean of six series of expe
riments at about 16° C, in which air expanded twelve times
in succession through the fine hole between the successive
chambers of a calorimeter before it passed from the high-
pressure to the low-pressure states, Regnault found the cool
ing-effect due to a pressure-excess of 1 metre of mercury to
be "3548°, which corresponds to a cooling-effect of *90126 for
a pressure excess of 100 English inches. Again, Regnault,
by expanding air through a silver capillary tube 2*5 metres
long, found the cooling-effect at about 16b to be '377° for a
pressure-excess of 1 metre of mercury—that is, '9576° for an
 excess of 100 English inches. These are the only two definite
 determinations made by Regnault for air ; and we find that
 their mean, '9'6°, is identical with the number given by the
 equation for 17°.
   Van de Waals (Wiedemann Beibldtter, i.) , with an equation
founded on Regnault's determinations, obtains a cooling-effect
at 17° almost identical with Thomson and Joule's result; but
in his equation for the cooling-effect, the term aAlog—,
arising from the difference between the absolute thermody
namic and absolute air-thermometric scales, is omitted ; if
included, it would increase his theoretical effect by about *3
of its own amount.
   As far, then, as the experiments on the cooling of air by
expansion are available as evidence, they go to show that the
potential energy of the molecules of a kilogramme of air is -,
and is equal to § of the virial of the molecular attractions.
    Thomson and Joule and Regnault also conducted experi
 ments on the cooling of hydrogen by expansion ; but its
 amount was too small for satisfactory measurement. Reg
 nault obtained a slight cooling-effect ; so also did Thomson
 and Joule in their researches (part ii.) ; but in their re
 searches (part iv.) they found a slight heating-effect. The
 only conclusion possible is that the real effect for hydrogen is
 smaller than the possible experimental errors.
    From Amagat's experiments on hydrogen I obtained the

186                 Mr. W. Sutherland on the
following equation :—
                       pv — lae^— - )T      ;
where                       V      vf     v
     a=i22-U, 6=-012831, c = '83497, Z=376-5 ;
the unit of pressure being that of a kilogramme weight per
square metre, and the unit of volume a cubic metre, v being
the volume of a kilogramme of hydrogen. Amagat's unit of
volume is 3^02 of that occupied by the gas at 0° and 760
millim. The critical temperature given by this equation is
T=30°-56 or t= -242°-4 ; the critical pressure is 22 atmo
spheres, and the critical volume of a kilogramme of hydrogen
is '02076 cubic metre.
   Olszewski (Comptes Rendus, 101. p. 238) states that he has
submitted hydrogen to pressures varying from 20 to 180
atmospheres at —220° C. without getting it liquefied. The
temperature —220° was measured by means of a hydrogen-
thermometer, on the assumption, I presume, that hydrogen
under pressures near that of 1 atmosphere obeys Charles's or
Gay-Lussac's law right down to that low temperature. The
above equation fully justifies Olszewski's assumption, and his
reliance on the hydrogen-thermometer ; for whether it is used
as a constant-volume or constant-pressure thermometer, its
indications for volume or pressure near the normal, as calcu
lated by Charles's or Gay-Lussac's law, are not appreciably
different from those calculated from the above equation. This
is an important fact in Physics—that there should exist a
substance capable of giving regular thermometric measure
ments almost down to absolute zero.
   We may regard the above-determined critical temperature
of hydrogen as remarkably near the truth, considering how
far beyond Amagat's experimental range we are extrapolating.
Wroblewski (Comptes Rendus, 100. p. 97!*), by suddenly ex
panding hydrogen cooled down to the melting-point of solid
nitrogen, from a pressure of 180 atmospheres to that of 1
atmosphere, got signs of liquefaction such as Olszewski had
also obtained in a similar manner, while his thermopile in the
fluid indicated —208° or —211°; but he cannot say how
nearly the thermopile itself actually came to the true tempe
rature of ebullition of hydrogen under a pressure of 1 atmo
sphere.
   The cooling effect for hydrogen at 0° C, expanding through
plugs under a pressure-excess of 100 inches of mercury, is
found from the above equation to be "2°. Eegnault found a
cooling of *04°, and Thomson and Joule (part ii.) found a
cooling of '07° ; but in their latest determination the effect
found for hydrogen was an irregular heating-effect. This

                      Law of Molecular Force.                 187
shows the amount of experimental error possible in these very
difficult experiments, and also shows the degree of accuracy
which is to be looked for in the experiments on air and C03.
    The only other experiments that I know to be on record
on cooling by expansion are those which Hirn made with
steam (Thiorie Micanique de la Chaleur) ; but before they
can be studied in the same manner as those on C02 and air
have been in this paper, an equation on the pure <l Virial "
model will have to be constructed for steam.
   The fields of application for the molecular law of the inverse
fourth power are wide and inviting. In the theory of capil
lary action it ought to lead to the accurate determination of
the size of the molecular domain in different substances under
specified conditions, or, in other words, of the number of mo
lecules in unit mass of all bodies. In the theory of elasticity
its possibilities are vast ; for, applied in connexion with the
great accumulation of facts bearing on crystalline structure,
it ought ultimately to render possible a general theory of the
structure of molecules. But the most inviting direction for
immediate research is towards the law of variation of I with
variation in molecular constitution. It remains to be seen
whether the experimental data at present available are suffi
cient to give a clue to it ; but there is no doubt that the pro
gress of molecular physics and chemical dynamics requires
experimental data for the structure of the characteristic equa
tions of a large number of bodies, for example of the members
of many homologous series of organic compounds ; for, before
we can hope to understand the atomic forces at play in chemical
action, we must possess a complete knowledge of molecular
actions.
   With      +     to express the Law of molic force through the
whole range of distances from molecular up to astronomical,
one is tempted to speculate whether the law of the terms re
presenting atomic or chemic force may not be expressed bv
one or more higher powers of -g, representing a force insen
sible at molecular distances as the molecular term of molic
force is insensible at astronomical distances, but sensible at
atomic distances, with the associated idea that atomic distances
are exceedingly small compared to molecular. This concep
tion would (speaking in a purely relative manner) reduce the
molecules almost to mathematical points, and would almost
remove the difficulty as to the collisions of molecules. In
this manner we can endeavour to realize all the actions of
matter on matter as pure attractions.

                              [    188     ]
XXI. Stability of Fluid Motion (continued from the May and
    June numbers).—Rectilineal Motion of Viscous Fluid between
    two Parallel Planes*. By Sir W. Thomson, LL.D., F.R.S.
27. O INCE the communication of the first of this series of
      £5 articles to the Royal Society of Edinburgh in April,
and its publication in the Philosophical Magazine in May and
June, the stability or instability of the steady motion of a
viscous fluid has been proposed as subject for the Adams
Prize of the University of Cambridge for 1888 f. The pre
sent communication (§§ 27-40) solves the simpler of the two
cases specially referred to by the Examiners in their announce
ment, and prepares the way for the investigation of the less
simple by a preliminary laying down, in §§ 27-29, and equa
tions (7) to (12) below, of the fundamental equations of
motion of a viscous fluid kept moving by gravity between
two infinite plane boundaries inclined to the horizon at any
angle I, and given with any motion deviating infinitely little
from the determinate steady motion which would be the
unique and essentially stable solution if the viscosity were
sufficiently large. It seems probable, almost certain indeed,
that analysis similar to that of § § 38 and 39 will demonstrate
that the steady motion is stable for any viscosity, however
small ; and that the practical unsteadiness pointed out by
 Stokes forty-four years ago, and so admirably investigated
experimentally five or six years ago by Osborne Reynolds, is
to be explained by limits of stability becoming narrower and
narrower the smaller is the viscosity.
    Let OX be chosen in one of the bounding planes, parallel
to the direction of the rectilineal motion ; and OY perpen
dicular to the two planes. Let the x-, y-, z-, component
velocities, and the pressure, at (x, y, z, i), be denoted by
U + w, v, w, and p respectively ; U denoting a function of (y, t) .
Then, calling the density of the fluid unity, and the viscosity
ix, we have, as the equations of motion J,
   * Communicated by the Author, having been read before the Royal
Society of Edinburgh. July 18, 1887.
   t See Phil. Mag. July 1887, p. 142.
   j Stokes's Collected Papers, vol. i. p. 08.

                        Rectilineal Motion of Viscous Fluid.            189
rj+B) + (U+M)*? +r|(U + B) + wg=AtV.(U + tt)>g +,8mI,~
   dv     /TT     N dv     dv              dv        __„          rf»       T ¦ /C1s
   rfic    ,_T     N dw     dw              dw       _o           rfp
        where Vs denotes the " Laplacian " cP + cP + (P
            28. If we have ?t=0, v=0, w=0; p=C—geosIy; the
        four equations are satisfied identically ; except the first of (2),
        which becomes
                               dJJ     d*U
                                                                       (3).
                                dt
        This is reduced to
                               dv      d?v
                                                                       (4),
                               dt =*d?
        if we put
                               U=v+^8inI//*.(*«-y«) . . . (5).
        For terminal conditions (the bounding planes supposed to be
        y=Q and y = b), we may have
                               u=F'(0 when y = 0 \              '        .
                               v=m         „ y=bS        • • ¦ • ^ )'
        where F and $ denote arbitrary functions. These equations
         (4) and (6) show (what was found forty-two years ago by
        Stokes) that the diffusion of velocity in parallel layers, provided
        it is exactly in parallel layers, through a viscous fluid, follows
        Fourier's law of the " linear " diffusion of heat through a
        homogeneous solid. Now, towards answering the highly
        important and interesting question which Stokes raised,—Is
        this laminar motion unstable in some cases ?—go back to (1)
        and (2), and in them suppose u, v, w to be each infinitely
        small : (1) is unchanged ; (2), with U eliminated by (5),
        become
                                                                        m.
            J+[.tw*-/>]£                           =,v»-g..(91i
         where
                                    c=g sin I//*                       (10)

190       Sir W. Thomson on the Rectilineal Motion of
and, for brevity, p now denotes, instead of as before the pres
sure, the pressure +gcos\y.
   We still suppose v to be a function of y and t determined
by (4) and (6). Thus (1) and (7), (8), (9) are four equa
tions which, with proper initial and boundary conditions,
determine the four unknown quantities u, v, w, p ; in terms
of y, z,t.
   29. It is convenient to eliminate u and w ; by taking
vfrtueV(l),          2(g           = - VV      .  ...       (U).
This and (8) are two equations for the determination of v
and p. Eliminating p between them, we find
rfV*f fd*v       \dv r       . nt     oxn^VS«       „4      ne>s
~dT -(^ -Vdi + ["-*«(*-*¦)] -5-                       v • ¦ (12>>
a single equation which, with proper initial and boundary
conditions, determines the one unknown, v. When v is thus
found, (8), (7), (9) determine p, u, and w.
   30. An interesting and practically important case is pre
sented by supposing one or both of the bounding planes to be
kept oscillating in its own plane ; that is, F and § of (6) to
be periodic functions of t. For example, take
                       F = acosorf, % = 0                    (13)
The corresponding periodic solution of (4) is
    v=a —                      -cos ("t-ysjJ) • • (u)-
   In connexion with this case there is no particular interest
in supposing a current to be maintained by gravity; and we
shall therefore take c=0, which reduces (7), (8), (9), (11),
(12), to       du      dn dv                dp
               dt+Vr* + dyV=^*»-£                 ¦ ¦ ¦ (15),
               dv      dv             -     dp
               dt+Vdi           =^V~dy            •   ¦  •  <16>'
               die .   dw                   dp
                       „dvdv                                „
                       2dydlc   ="yP                        <18>'
       -dT-dy-^+V-d^=^V                                     W'>
in all of which v is the function of (y, <) expressed by (14).

           Viscous Fluid between tico Parallel Planes.          191
    These equations (15) . . . (19) are of course satisfied by
w=0, v = 0, w = 0, p = 0. The question of stability is, Does
every possible solution of them come to this in time ? It
seems to me probable that it does ; but I cannot, at present
at all events, enter on the investigation. The case of b = <x>
is specially important and interesting.
   31. The present communication is confined to the much
simpler case in which the two bounding planes are kept moving
relatively with constant velocity ; including as sub-case, the
two planes held at rest, and the fluid caused by gravity to
move between them. But we shall first take the much simpler
sub-case, in which there is relative motion of the two planes,
and no gravity. This is the very simplest of all cases of the
general question of the Stability or Instability of the Motion
of a Viscous Fluid. It is the second of the two cases pre
scribed by the Examiners for the Adams Prize of 1888. I
have ascertained, and I now give (§§ 32 . . . 39 below) the
Eroof, that in this sub-case the steady motion is wholly stable,
  owever small or however great be the viscosity ; and this
without limitation to two-dimensional motion of the admis
sible disturbances.
   32. In our present sub-case, let [3b be the relative velocity of
the two planes ; so that in (6) we may take F = 0, ^=^b; and
the corresponding steady solution of (4) is
                             v = fy                           (20).
Thus equation (19) becomes reduced to
                     do-   a da         -
                                                              (21);
where
and (18), (15), (16), (17) become
                          <:=-w .               .   .  •   •  (22),
                                                          •   (23),
                dv , o dv             .     dp
               dj+^r,            =^ V-Ty ¦         ¦       •  (24),
               dw     _ dw            ,     dp
                                                           •  (25).
It may be remarked that equations (22)... (25) imply (1),
 and that any four of the five determines the four quantities
u, v, v>,p. It will still be convenient occasionally to use (1).

 192        Sir W. Thomson on the Rectilineal Motion of
We proceed to find the complete solution of the problem
before us, consisting of expressions for u, v, w, p satisfying
(22) . . . (25) for all values of x, y, z,t; and the following
initial and boundary conditions :—
      when < = 0 : u, v, w to be arbitrary functions 1             (9,P,\-
                       of x, y, z, subject only to (1) /           '
   u = 0, v = 0, u>=0, for y = 0 and all values of x, z, f\
   u = 0, t>=0, w = 0, for y = b           „        „            J
   33. First let us find a particular solution u, v, w, p, which
shall satisfy the initial conditions (26), irrespectively of the
boundary conditions (27 ), except as follows :—
                    v=0, when t = 0 and y = 0
                    v=0, when t=0 and y-        ;:»}... «,
Next, find another particular solution, u, V, M>, p, satisfying
the following initial and boundary equations :—
                 U = 0, t) = 0, W = 0, when i = 0 . . . (29);
      U + u=0, u + v=0, tt>+w=0, when .y=0 \                         .
                                       and when y = b f
   The required complete solution will then be
               M = U + U,    I7 = tf + V,  w=W + vr    .     .  .   (31).
   34. To find u, v, w, remark that, if /x were zero, the com
plete integral of (21) would be
                    <r = arb. func. (x—fiyt) ;
and take therefore as a trial for a type-solution with fi not
zero,
                     0._rp€i[iwe+(n-fi»p<)»+»*J        _       _ (32)'
where T is a function of t, and i denotes                V — 1-     Sub
stituting accordingly in (21), we find
                 ^ = _M[m»+(n_TO#)l + g»]T.                 _  _   (33).
whence, by integration,
By the second of (21), and (32), we find
                             ei[m*+(«-m0<)»+0z]
                 V=~^ rrf + in-m&tY + q1 '           '    '    '   (35);

            Viscous Fluid between two Parallel Planes.                 193
whence, by (22),
          p=—2/3miT r , . ,               0.,j , na      . .   .    (36).
Using this in (25), and putting
                   t0=!We't"*+(""m^'),'+,"1                         (37),
we find
^¦rfrf^Wp^f (38)
which, integrated, gives W.
   Having thus found » and w, we find u by (1), as follows:—
                      w_ (n—m/3t)v + qw
                                                                     (39).
                                       m
   35. Realizing, by adding type-solutions for +t and + n,
with proper values of C, we arrive at a complete real type-
solution with, for v, the following—in which K denotes an
arbitrary constant :
         f e-^[»i+«>+q'-»mfit+im^>P] c()g
             toj + (m + w/3<)j + V 5— sm
             —5—;                                          ^w + v9^1jJ»¦
                                         u:„ lrnwr— (n + mflf)y
This gives, when «=0,
                        +K          .     sin          .              ....
               »=—=to* + n*n + qf:.sin ny „„. (mx
                                        ^ cos  ^     * ' .
                                                  + oz)      .   .   v(41),
                                                                         »
which fulfils (28) if we make
                              n = iiryjb                            (^2);
and allows us, by proper summation for all values of i from 1
to oo , and summation or integration with reference to m and
q, with properly determined values of K, after the manner of
 Fourier, to give any arbitrarily assigned value to vt=0 for
every value of x, y, z,
               from x— — co to «= +oo ,-
                 n                    » y~h                          (43).
                 „     z=— oo „ z= +oo ..
    The same summation and integration applied to (40) gives
 v for all values of t, x, y, z ; and then by (38), (37), (39) we
find corresponding determinate values of w and u.
    36. To give now an arbitrary initial value, w0, to the
 Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 24. No. 147. August 1887.                   0

194       Sir W. Thomson on the Rectilineal Motion of
r-component of velocity, for every value of x, y, z, add to the
solution (w, v, w) , which we have now found, a particular
solution (u'} v', w') fulfilling the following conditions :—
       p'=0 for all values of t, x, y, z ;            "»
      u/=w0— w0 for f = 0, and all values of x, y, zj              '
and to be found from (25) and (1), by remarking that «'=0
makes, by (22), ^ = 0, and therefore (23) and (25) become
                      du' 0 du'           - ,
                                                              (45) ,
                       dt
                      dio' r, die'      _,,
                                                              (46) .
                       dt '      dx
Solving (46); just as we solved (21), by (32), (33), (34); and
then realizing and summing to satisfy the arbitrary initial
condition, as we did for v in (40), (41), (42), we achieve the
determination of uf ; and by (1) we determine the corre
sponding u', ipso facto satisfying (45). Lastly, putting
together our two solutions, we find
                  u=m + m', v=v, V7 = W + lOl . . . (47)
as a solution of (26) without (27), in answer to the first
requisition of § 33. It remains to find u, V, W, in answer to
the second requisition of § 33.
   37. This we shall do by first finding a real (simple harmonic)
periodic solution of (21), (22), (23), (25), fulfilling the
condition
           u= A cos cat + B sin wt
            v=C cos a>/ + Dsin <ot       when y = 0
           u> = E cos tot + F sin at .
           u = 5l cos tot + 2J sin at ¦                       (48),
            v = Scoso>t + '25sina)t • when y = b
           w = (£ cos tot + 5 sin tot .
where A, B, C, D, E, F, 51, 2?, S, £, Q, § are twelve
                                                         P CD
arbitrary functions of (x, z). Then, by taking I da>/(to)
of each of these after the manner of Fourier, we solve the
problem of determining the motion produced throughout the
fluid, by giving to every point of each of its approximately
plane boundaries an infinitesimal displacement of which each of
the three components is an arbitrary function of x,z,t. Lastly,
by taking these functions each =0 from t= — oo to f = 0, and

                   Viscous Fluid between two Parallel Planes.             195
        each eqnal to minus the value of u, v, w for every point of
        each boundary, we find the u, U, It) of § 33. The solution of
        our problem of § 32 is then completed by equations (31). To
        do all this is a mere routine after an imaginary type solution
        is provided as follows.
           38. To satisfy (21) assume
          =£'<-'+«*+«*){He'v'(m,+',) + Ke-*^m'+9l) + L/(y) + MP(y)} . (49),
       where H, K, L, M are arbitrary constants and /, F any two
       particular solutions of
                      i(o. + m|3«/)(r=/t[^-(m' + </>]          .   .    (50).
       This equation, if we put .
                      mf3/fi=y, and wi*4 q2 + uo//j,=\     .  .   .     (51),
       becomes
                                g* = (X+tW)«r                           (52);
       which, integrated in ascending powers of (\ + iyy), gives two
       particular solutions, which we may conveniently take for our
       / and F, as follows :—
m~L            3.2        +   6.5.3.2        9T8.6.5.3.2 + ffiC-              I
                                                                                (53).
* (y)                0          +   7.6.4.j,- - I0XTX4T3 +<Lc-
          39. 7%e«e series are essentially convergent for all values of y.
       Hence in (49) we have a solution continuous from y = 0 to
      y=b; and by its four arbitrary constants we can give any
                                        dfy
      prescribed values to fy, and —., for y = 0 and y=b. This
                                         dy
      done, find p determinately by (24); and then integrate (25)
      for to in an essentially convergent series of ascending powers of
      X + tyy, which is easily worked out, but need not be written
      down at present, except in abstract as follows :—
                               u,= ^e*<"<+«*+?*>                       (54).
      where
      W=Hg1(X + iW) + K&(X + *w) + L$i(* + «W)                       1
                     + M&(X + tyy) + Pe^<«,+«'> + Qe^-^rt J
      Here P and Q are the two fresh constants, due to the inte
      gration for w. By these we can give to °U) any prescribed
                                      0 2

1<)6                Drs. Ramsay and Young on
values for y=-0 and y = b. Lastly, by (1), with (49), we
have
                   u = %e'('°<+ ""*+»•>        ~]
where                                            I                (56).
                           \nu ay       m   J J
    Our six arbitrary constants, H, K, L, M, P, Q, clearly
allow us to give any prescribed values to each of              V,
for y = 0 and for y=b. Thus the completion of the realized
  roblem with real data of arbitrary functions, as described in
   37, becomes a mere affair of routine.
    40. Now remark that the (u, v, w) solution of § 34 comes
essentially to nothing, asymptotically as time advances, as we
see by (33), (34), and (38). Hence the (u, V, W) of § 37,
which rise gradually from zero at t—0, comes asymptotically
to zero again as t increases to oo . We conclude that the
steady motion is stable.
                          [To be continued.]
XXII. On Evaporation andDissociation.—Part VI. {continued) .
    On the Continuous Change from the Gaseous to the Liquid
   State at all Temperatures. By William Ramsay, PLD.,
   and Sydney Young, D.Sc.*
                            [Plates IK.-V.]
1"^HE following pages give a further proof of the correctness
        of the relation p = bt—a, where v = constant, applicable
both to gases and liquids. The data for methyl alcohol apply
solely to the gaseous state, for the very high pressures which
its vapour exerts precluded measurements at temperatures
above its critical point. With ethyl alcohol the determinations
of the compressibility of the liquid are more complete than
with ether ; the experimental observations in the neighbour
hood of the critical volume are, however, not very numerous,
for the highest temperature for which an isothermal was con
structed is 246°, the critical temperature being 2430,1. The
values of a and b at volumes near the critical are con
sequently somewhat uncertain. The data for the gaseous
condition are, however, pretty full. We have also a consider
able number of data for acetic acid (Trans. Chem. Soc. 1886,
p. 790). Here the temperature at which the highest iso
thermal was measured was the highest conveniently attainable
by our method, viz. 280°. But as the critical temperature
      * Communicated by the Physical Society : read April 23, 1887.

                    Evaporation and Dissociation.           197
lies much higher, the pressures were in no case very great.
The behaviour of acetic acid, however, contrasted with that
of the alcohols, ether, and carbon dioxide is very striking.
The equation p = bt—a does not applj' ; in other words lines
of equal volume are not straight, but are curves of double
flexure. We shall consider the meaning of this peculiarity
after adducing data.
   1. Methyl Alcohol.—The data are at present in the hands
of the Royal Society. The values of b were, as before, deter
mined by reading points on the isothermal curves at equal
volumes ; constructing isochors graphically, and having thus
obtained approximate values of b, these were smoothed by
plotting them as abscissae, the ordinates being the reciprocals
of the volumes. The values of b given in the Table which
follows were those read from this curve. The values of a
were calculated from the equation a = bt—p, the mean value
obtained from all the readings at each volume being taken
as correct.
                                Table I.
            Vol.            b.           log 4.      a.
      c. o. per gram.
              7           626-5        2-79692    263430
              8           5690         2-75511    235370
              9           609-0        2-70672    206290
             10           452-5        2-65562    179090
             11           405-3        2-60778    156660
             12           3650          2-56229   137810
             14           2990          2-47567   107460
             16           248-5        2-39533     84730
             18           2110         2-32428     68364
             20           184-8        2-26670     57474
             25           139-8        214551      39724
             30           1125          2-05115    29834
             40            800          1-90309    18913
             60            620          1-79239    13401
             70            43-5         1-63849     8631
            100            26-95        1-43056     4092
            135            18-95        1-27761     2398
            170            14-50        1-06137     1624
            200            1200         1-07918     1187
            240              9-65      0-98453        794
            280              800       0-90309        455
            340              6-30      079934         307
            400              515       0-71181        159
            450              4-57      0-65992        130
   The following Table gives the pressures read from the iso-
thermals from which these values of a and b were obtained;
 and we have added, for the sake of comparison, the pressures
 recalculated by help of these values.

98                        Drs. Ramsay and Young on
                                 o o o © Q o «s —i o 53 r- in o ¦
              Oa                      ¦<* T               53 53 53 ?3        5 S Ttl 5 53 -1 - *
                                 ©    O OO
                                 r: i—p            QO
                                                —> cs
                                                   S5     5r •ct
                                                          Q
                                                        Q t-
                                 ®    5j o i-          55
                                 ^J* ^ ^*                 53 C
                   d r-     OOOOOOOCOCXN
                                  tc o>     2j — co ;r x              1~ x
              -J  S2 ic     or—
                            -5   o©
                                 ©    ^oocs
                                      -r CO     ^ CO
                                            ^j* ©  •¦r C-
                                                          —. x> x ©
                   g*       883? O 05 C©>©         © ©»f< ©
                                                rt iM     iO © fl1 22°
                                                                   O  v  ->
                                                                   32^
                   g ©                © x tr:*^ :rco X'
                             . i co— -r*
                            OO^^^^^COCOC0               © -mx ©i- ©   t- o
                                                                      ©
                                                                   © 01C<1
                          5©©©©©©©©©©
                          'Ht^
                          | N S3 :tr ?1            co ^' —© fi i-1-1 o^ ©
                                                »* ^
                            © —< S xI— ©-h—< i~N cS -M
                       Ol5 ~h
                       ¦•J  CO © CO   © X t CmCQ'-phKh
                                                               c -t 8f> <^
                                                                         C
             "a               I F- Ol © © I- I- © »C — £- QO
                              iri-H©t---*^-©©                            —'
                  5 c-i o¦» —i t= o oo t- o co -+ -r ao
                  tai£tiTJtf3Lr3'*f«'r*rT53 53 53CN^
                       —< —i -f i~ 3 ?3 — »S —' »s
                   -;i-c:S--ri-nrif3!t-s«
                    ;cc«
                    'Sir,             ?i o x c r. c -h n-i
                                 «3L»s*Tf-*nnoNiN
                                                             ^© ©©
                                                             5 CO CO ©1 <N
                    :: co © co   -r oio co  q ©_ _ ?i © i- —¦ c
                       kOiCkC^i*rt«~t"^COCOCOCN)C
                                      © t~ O t- r~ O
                                    •itoar-too'ji-ixei               C£
                                    ilf;i?5Tt<'*-<J<53 53COCNC
                              5o ¦ ¦o -c   $o
               ga                   ) CO 3 <N
             o
                       t— sc          ft o
              o        4T3 -X
                       I-   to t »C 'U3. . i-
      3J
              1-       fi   c ?. 5 * ^ $ 1I C i -r C ? S c: 8 < ) CO CO
                       01CC©01C0^©C0©e0©X©CCO©C0C
                        S^r -r co — © oi © i-- oi oi x co © t- ».                      CO
           s
                          • X©© — 01-fCCX©iO©©©©©»-0©©©0©©©
   <3    . So                                                               ^^^CTWCNCO^'Tf*
           8.

            Evaporation and Dissociation.                                           199
         •a
         o
   8
                                                          i . <—i c: wj
                                                          l—
                                                          O 01 O C. C5O :C    00 O
                                                                          —I :C  t3
   8
         3
                                                 ?i 2 X C w -f c: -f p o
                                     ffi
                                      (NCIt— ift *C
        ¦3                            »-i M X—W  © —<
                                                    -h
        O
a.
        i
                                     « ci
                                     i-      o -r i.c o
                                          j5 ci        -d cj -*f i-f:ci i^i-fo
                                                                             ci p
                                     i- S
                                     ©       8 L >c- 1- CI        ^(N
                                                          ci O-r- r-
                                                                   ....:r ci - ©- .
                                     O    ~,cocic
                                             O —h OC CD           CO ciCC CI C4 CI
        o             C! 1 rf
                   <1 c;          c: oi oi
                               co S  25 o
                   < coc1 CO CO   O) (N   <N
   ©
   ?!
                               aft- r
                               13 S3 J
                         CO CO eo 5< c
      g

200               Drs. Ramsay and Young on
   It is evident that the agreement here is very satisfactory,
and that any differences are well within the limits of experi
mental error, and of error in reading from curves.
   2. Ethyl Alcohol.—The data for ethyl alcohol are published
in the ' .Philosophical Transactions,' 1886, part i. p. 123.
In constructing isothermals for the liquid, which are published
in plate iii. of that memoir, isobars were constructed from
the isothermal curves drawn through the experimental points;
these isobars were made use of in finding isochoric lines at
which the relations of temperature and pressure could be
compared. This method applies to volumes not greater than
3 cub. centim. per gram. Between volumes 3 and 12 cub.
centim. per gram the isochoric lines were constructed from
the diagram from which plate vi. was copied (the smaller
divisions are omitted on the printed plate). For volumes
above 12 cub. centim. per gram the actual observations were
 made use of which are detailed on pp. 144-151; the slight
alteration in volume caused by the expansion of the measuring-
 tube was here neglected; at the utmost the error introduced
is 0'15 per cent, of the total volume.
    The only satisfactory manner of comparing the found and
 calculated pressures for liquid alcohol is to reproduce the
 diagram showing the compressibility of the liquid, denoting
 the calculated pressures by crosses, the actual experimental
 observations being represented by circles. Although there is
 apparently only one volume at which a comparison is possible
on each of the lower isotherms, yet it must be remembered
that the values of a and b are deduced from the isobaric curves,
to construct which numerous points on each isotherm were
made use of.
    Table III. on page 202 gives the values of a and b for
 definite volumes. These were read from three overlapping
 curves, on which values of b were abscissae, the reciprocals of
 the volumes being ordinates ; the actual values of b in the
region of the critical volume were, for reasons previously given,
 interpolated. The form of this curve is remarkable. It is
 equivalent to the first term in Clausius's and Van der Waals's
              BT
formulae,'      ~ ; but it is evident that its form cannot be
            (»—£);
represented so simply. Its general form is represented in
the accompanying woodcut.
   The same general form is to be noticed in the case of ether.
The curve obtained in plotting a against volume is of similar
form.
   The comparison of actual and calculated results at volumes
below 3 cub. centim. per gram is difficult. As it is most

                 Evaporation and Dissociation.              201
important to show the truth of the equation p=bt—a for
liquids, we have decided, after due consideration, to re
produce the isothermals exhibiting compressibility, inserting
crosses ( x ) to denote the pressures calculated by means of
the values of b and a given in the preceding Table. It will
be noticed that these crosses are often more in concordance
with the actual observations than are the lines drawn before
we had discovered this relation. These are shown on Plate III.
   Between volumes 3 and 12 cub. centim. per gram we give
a table of comparison (Table IV.).
   For higher volumes a comparison is made with the results
of actual experiment. The volume at the mean temperature
is given in each case, although at the extreme temperatures the
divergence in some cases amounts to 0-15 per cent. (Table V.).
    The values of a and b given are the best available from the
 determinations ; but as these are few at volumes near the
 critical volume, the range of temperature being too small to
 permit of ascertaining the values with accuracy, no great
 dependence can be placed on them. This is proved by the
 fact that at 220°, if tbe areas included between the vapour-
 pressure line and the serpentine curve are made equal, the
 vapour-pressure shows an error of about 3 per cent. We do
 not regard this as in any way opposed to our conclusions ;
 for while with ether about the critical volume, the range of
 temperature from which the values of b and a were calculated
 amounted to 55 degrees, and while at volumes slightlv greater
 measurements up to 85 degrees were made use of, with alcohol
 the total range of temperature was only 3 degrees at corre
 sponding volumes. They cannot, therefore, have at all the
 same claim to accuracy.
    Acetic Acid.—The data are given in the Trans. Chem. Soc.
 1886, p. 790. As in the original paper we have omitted to state
 the volumes of 1 gram, we give a Table (VI.) containing these
 values.

             On Evaporation and Dissociation.
                          Table III.
    Volume.            b.             log*.      a.
c. c. per gram.
        1-4         6295           3-79900   2376800
        1-45        5725            3-75778  2270060
        1-6         5250            372016   2164680
        1-55        4800            3-68124  2041900
        1-6         4410           3-64444   1925370
        1-65        4075           361013    1817760
        1-7         3750         . 3-57403   1702370
        1-75        3490           3-54283   1608180
        1-8         3240           3-51054   1511410
        1-85        3000           8-47712   1413870
       1-9          2795           3-44638   1327920
       1-95         2600           3-41497   1242030
       20           2435           3-38650   1168030
       21           2150           3-33244   1037000
       2-2          1940           328780     938360
       2-3          1765           3 24674    854080
       24           1640           3-21484    793230
       2-6          1435           3-15685    691280
       2-74         1330           3-12385    638080
       30           1170           306819     556040
       3-5           977           2-98989    456490
       40            842           2-92531    386810
       45            741           2-86982    334710
       5             662           2-82086    294080
       6             556           2-74507    240150
       7             484           2-68484    204010
       8             4285          2-(i3195   176050
      9              381           2-58092    153610
     10              341-2         2-53301    134650
     12              276-5         2-44169    104590
     1428            221          2-34439      79460
     1825            155          219033       50530
     22- 13          113-7        205576       33080
    2608              884          1-94645     23120
    300               721         1-85793      17030
    378               52-4        1-71933      10470
    53-45             34-2        1-53403       5400
    766               22-6        1-35411       2902
   108-2-             15-3        1- 18469      1565
   131-7              12-7        1-10382       1282
   170-5               9-6        0-98227        886
  484                  3-3        0-51851        204

12-0     10-0 90       8-0 70 60 5-0 4-5 40 35 c.                                      Vol.
38700 42130 43860 45500 47060 48420 49480 49840 50000 50180              Read.
                                                                     mm.
                                                                                246°.
38910 42430 44130 45740 47180 48410 49500 49870 50190 50580 mm.          Calo.
38320     41680 43350 44920 46320 47460 48350 48730 48960 49100 mm.      Road.
                                                                                244
38460 41870     43500 45030 46380 47490 48400  48640 48790               Calc.  °-35.
                                                           48'J.")0 mm.
 38050    41350  42930 44440 45760 46670 48110 48180 48270  48400 mm.     Read.
                                                                                243
38110     41440 43020 44500 45780 46800 47880 48050 48120 48060 mm.              3-55.
                                                                         Calc.
37780     40990 42550 43030 45270 46210 47300 47520 47610 47040 mm.      Read.
                                                                                2431°.
 37810    41070 42600 44030 45250 46190 47580 47720 47740 47730          Calc.
                                                                    mm.
37270     40420 41880 43220 44350 45210 46970                            Read.
                                                                    mm.
                                                                                242°.
 37250    40390 41840 43170 44280 45080 46850                            Oalc.              Temperatures.
                                                                     mm.                                  Table
                                                                                                          IV.
 36780 39800 41210 42450 43400                                           Read,
                                                                    mm.
                                                                                238°.
 30700 39900 41080 42310 43310                                           Cale.
                                                                    mm.
  36250 39150 40470 41600                                                Read.
                                                                     mm.
                                                                                236°.
  36150 39020 40320 41460                                                Calc.
                                                                    mm.
  35710 38480 39690 40640                                                Read.
                                                                    mm.
                                                                                234°.
  35600 38340 39560 40600                                                Calc.
                                                                    mm.
  35130 37810 38860                                                      Read.
                                                                    mm.
  35040 37660 38790                                                      Calc.  232c.
                                                                    mm.
  34550 37110 38050                                                      Read.
                                                                    mm.
                                                                                230°.
   34490 36980 38030                                                     Calc.
                                                                    mm.

            Drs. Ramsay and Yonng on
    3
               ¦3  E t- so 10 »^ -r cc co ?i c: cr> 5o :£ co oc co i- c-i
               O   3oc£cD:cosccocc<o;cc£io»cic»r3-<t,,<rcoco
    8.
  CO               = 00 I- -
  n
                    .Q©Q^O5t'-inc0a0C5'*Q»Q«Lf5^coe3
               "a  g « -m —. — fc cs x oo    o co as 50 ic w o co
    =3         1   Q C^l ID
  o
                                                  . m co . t- .as
    to                                            :cSS :o :ao
    p.    3
          a;
  Off.    S
  o
  tb
o                   .r-pHQtOrHOnrfrHt^fCOOrHCOlCNQ
                   £ c ic it. o »n m nT- ^ T
               ¦a      >t)«©^(NC0<MCO©(N-
                §
                     NO
  i
                                 s da c
          2
          s
                     CMC^COt^l-'COX-*^^-*'^'^
                   .CXTSflOM'                ¦
                   S.QOOOOOOOOOQOCQO
               •a
               o     h -r -5 3* Q c
                   £ cocoeococococ
               R   " 3 55 co 55 c?c? coco c? coco coco§
                         CC r-( O 9> O O
       £5
     £ 2

                 Evaporation and Dissociation.                                                         205
           1   a
                                           ' I1 ^WMW     ' Ci CC
                                                               c
    5a
     >-        ill                                                                         — c: r.
                                                                                 —- :- ¦ tic
                                                                                 o
                                                                         qo Tf Tf"   . . ^ rf- CO
                ; so OS : CO C-l 00 iO                                   vj io i"»
                                                                         r- <ju           . * iju <-*j
                                                                                 -r :¦ .n:i
                : n •            —< —«                                   QCI^C
                                                                         »p Tf "<t* ;• tj         r.n
                                                                                           *T —¦ CO
a3
0    s=3
     u                                   IT5 ::-m
                                      :. co    . eo t> —
                                                       CO        :x                CO
                                                                                   CO 05—I Q £¦ t
     60    3 !                         : oi
                                     .CO            — —i
                                               . CO CO CO                          CO   71 cc— s- o
                                                                                                  i-
                                         ~i* -' C5
                                     '¦ I~          — 05X
                                                 ~T O                CO
                                      • CO • CO CO CO            .:: —i
                                                                     35
                                                                     l-5
                                         N^$lCO
                                             £1 Q O            82
                                         00 5E QC 00
     a.
                                         1- CO
                                         CO  t» O05 X
                                                 CO CM         •t CO
   to                                                          C-l
                                         CO
                                         CO  CO
                                             X   X CO
                                                    CO         X' —• X                  l» CO c
                                                             > CJ t-h C5 t- ICS . — C
      60
                                                                              !co
                                                                              MO      .-a"
                                                                                     :¦-esc
               g QD —i CC CO                                                            iu
                                 O ?I S          <N -I                        )> o
                                                                                 o      t~e
        4i           WhOOOO
        55     oco ^ eb f- 6 c: c
       ¦52

206                   Drs. Ramsay and Young on
                               Table VT.
       Temp. 50°.              Temp. 92°.          Temp. 118°-2.
  Pressure.   Vol. of     Pressure.    Vol. of Pressure.    Vol. of
              1 gram.                 1 gram.              1 gram.
   millim.    c. c.        millim.    c. c      millim.    c. o.
    13-4      15100         20-45      14650     241        15100
    16-4      13300         24-55      11990     29-1       12430
    1695      11979         30-58       9325     36-65       9769
    18-2      10640         39-35       7105     44-0        7984
    21-0        9325        51 1        5329     55-3        6217
    2415        8000        66-45       4000     69-25       4885
    265         7101        75-65       3.M5     84 05       4010
    300         6214        96-8        2649     886         3782
    34-9        5321)      104-2        2440    121-5        2664
    51-35       3567       135-8        1825    172-6        1781
                           138-6        1792    2242         1335
                           170-5        1403    3190          876-6
      Temp. 78°-4.         18105        1327    391-9         689-2
                           234-9         982    433-6         6110
    18-8      14550        268-4         843
    19-3      14760
    20-95     13320                               Temp. 132°-9.
    211       13250           Temp. 105°1.
    21-85     12430                             101-7        3591
    22-85     11980         21-85     15150     132-7        2665
    23-35     12000         31-9      10210     174-5        1969
    23-45     11550         53-6        5782    214-9        1546
    24-9      10660         7465        4005    285-2        1122
    27 0        9774        83-45       3590    3604          851-3
    2715        9760        914         3110    470-7         6171
    27-3        9858       106-3        2721    700-2         391-3
    29-3        8868       1263         2220    7476          364-7
    31-8        7962       150-4        1823
    32-7        7833       155-4        1778
    35-85       7092       186-2        1431
    4015        6217       199-75       1334       Temp. 147°-6.
    42-05       6075       2326         1123
    46-4        5326       286-5         884-6   88-5        4516
    52-9        4631       298-6         841-5  133-9        2805
    54-35       4441       337-4         729-3  181-6        2045
    63-2        3865       422-4         5610   225-1        1627
    66-75       3553       460-35        504-9  263-5        1352
    71-7        3281                            341-8        1010
    87-2        2670                            427 9         785-4
    91-2        2496         Temp.ll7°-95.      507 0         645-2
   101-25       2220                            602-5         533 0
   1066         2132        75-75       4488    729-7         420-8
   121-5        1826        85-35       3871
   124-65       1782       1635         1868
   1253         1767       210-45       1403      Temp. 162°-5.
   141-3        1519       256-4        1121
   151-7        1421       328-6         8415    959         4460
   157-75       1375       386-1         701-3  134-3        3142
   1642         1306       467-1         561 0  183-8        2244
   17225        1243       601-8         4208   274-0        1459
   180-8        1175       6325          3927   3731         1038
   191-75       1066       676-8         3647   450-5         841-5

                      Evaporation and Dissociation.                         207
                          Table VI. (continued).
 Temp. 162°5 (cont.).            Temp. 183°7.              Temp. 279°-85.
 Pressure.      Vol. of      Pressure.     Vol. of     Pressure.    Vol. of
               1 gram.                     1 gram.                  1 gram.
  millim.       c. c.         millim.      c. c.        millim.     c. c.
  526-7            701-3        1630       216-8        20669       15-82
  64()-3           561-0        1764       1970         21043       15-34
  7295             476-9        1876       1838         21444       14-86
                                2066       163-8        21762       14-38
                                2299       143-7        22147       13-90
                                2599       123-8        22565        13-42
      Temp. 184° -1.                       103-9                    1293
                                3511         8417                   12-44
                                3733         7764       231)07       11-95
    98-05         4654                                  24075        11-70
  140-7           3223                                  24260       11-46
  188-2           2384            Temp. 200°.
  242-9           1823
  &3H-8           1290          1780       216-8
  425-7           1010          1984        190-5           Temp.
  520-4            8135         2341        1571
  866-4            617-2        2852        1239
  791-6            5049         3679         9075         2400       2175
                                4452         7114         2475       2111
                                5178         58-15        2556       204-5
                                                          2639       1979
       Temp. 162°-5.                                      2731       1913
                                  Temp. 240°.             2824       1S4-6
                                                          3284       157-7
    1413        2171            2139        2175          4085       124-4
    1523         1973           2389        191-1         53S?        9112
    1616         184-1          2851        157-6         6661        7144
    1777         164 0          3512        124-2         8742        51-87
    1907         150-5          4578         91 02       11048        38-77
    2049        1373            5612         71-36       12742        32-20
    2128         1306           6604         58-33       15105        25-63
    2212         1240           8043         4527        18496         1904
    2291         117-4          9006         38-72       20693        15-74
    2390         110-7         10293         3216        21848        14-42
    2456        104-1          11930         25-60       23433        12-44
  These numbers were mapped on curve-paper, and pressures
were read from the curves, corresponding to even volumes.
                                   Table VII.
   Vol.     50°. 78°-4. 92°. 105°1. 118°-1. 132°-9. 147°-6. 162°-5. 184°-1.
  c. c.    mm.       mm.    mm.      mm.     mm.    mm.      mm.   m m . mm.
  15000    13-85     18-7   200      220     24-3
   8000    24 00     32-25  3515     39-65   439
    4000   45-45     60-4   66-55    75-1    83 65  930 97-7 1060 114-7
    2000           111-0   1249     140-3   155-0  171-5 185-6 204-5 221-5
    1000   . ... 205-0     231-2   257-5    284-5  315-2 345-0 3850 430 0
      500                          4697    517-5   563 0 635 0 700-5 802-5

208                     Drs. Ramsay and Young on
                           Table VII. {continued).
       Vol.         162°-5.     183°7.       200°.     240°.      280°.
      c. c.          mm.         mm.         mm.      mm.         mm.
       220 ...        1405       1610        1755     2115        2380
        150 ...       1910       2225        2435     2985        3440
        100 ...      2545        3080        3400     4235        4962
         80 ...                  3670        4055     5105        6030
         60 ...                              5057     6465        7750
   Before discussing these results we give similar tables cal
culated and read from numbers given in the Messrs. Natan-
sons's memoir on nitric peroxide (Wiedemann's Annalen, 1886,
p. 606). As their results are stated as vapour-densities, we
have converted their numbers into volumes of 1 gram.
                                 Table VIII.
      Temp. -12°-6.              Temp. 73° -7.     Temp. 99° 8 (cont.).
   Pressure.     Vol. of     Pressure.   Vol. of   Pressure.  Vol. of
                1 gram.                  1 gram.              1 gram.
    miilim.      c. c,        miilim.    c. c       658-31       705-5
     1154         1648         49-65      9214      675-38       687-7
                               64-75      7017      732-51       629-7
                               67-72      6754
          Temp. 0°.           107-47      4184        Temp. 117°-91.
                              164-59      2701
      3796        6235        302-04      1420       58-24     8972-3
      86 57       2539        504-14       816-8
     172-48       1208        633-27       6359
     250-66        8081                               Temp. 129°-9.
                                                     &r>-99   15076
         Temp. 21°.              Temp. 99° -8.       66-94     8100
                                                     78-73     6892
     491-60         479-8                           104-77     5182
     51696          463-0      11-73    41542       152-46     3568
     556-50         419-4      23-22    20993       16971      3194
     61917         360-6       34-80    13929       247-86     2186
                               5735       8468      297-95     1823
                               7957       6067      550-29       980-1
        Temp. 49°-7.           89-67      5408
                              108-65      4454
      26-8      15585         116-58      4156        Temp. 151 °-4.
      93-75       4144        142-29      3402
     182-7        2008        202-24      2375      117-98     4869
     261-4        1354        371-27      1277      475-41     1210
     497 75        651        520-98       900      666-22      861-1
   These numbers, after mapping, gave the following pressures
for even volumes :—

                     Evaporation and Dissociation.                         209
                                  Table IX.
 Volumes. -12°-6.       0°.    49°7.     73°7.     99°-8.   129°-9.   151°-4.
   e. c.     mm.       mm.      mm.       mm.       mm.       mm.       mm.
  16000                          263                300       34-5
   8(100                307      50-8      56-5     61-2      68-8
   4000                 58-5     96-2    1 12-5    121-2     1360      146-3
   2000      97 0      110-0    1837     2200      2410      271-3     294 0
   1000                204-2   353-0     422;")    473-5    5400       5735
    On comparing the results for acetic acid and for nitric
peroxide with those for methyl and ethyl alcohols, ether, and
carbonic anhydride, the most noticeable feature is that the
isochoric lines are not straight. If it is true that the limiting
formulae for acetic acid and for nitric peroxide are, respectively,
C2H402 and C4H804, and N02 and N204*, then, on the sup
position that the lower formulae remain correct, and that the
density remains constant, it is possible to calculate pressures
and temperatures corresponding to given isochoric lines ;
these lines would be those of a perfect gas, straight, and
radiating from absolute zero of temperature and pressure ;
and the isochoric line corresponding to a volume v of the
simpler molecule C2H402, or N02, will be the same as
the isochoric line for the formula C4H804 or N204, and the
volume 2t\ Now as the density of the more complex mole
cule diminishes with rise of temperature and pressure, it is to
be expected that the isochoric line should lie between these
lines, and that it should coincide at high temperatures with
the isochoric line v, and at low temperatures with the line 2u.
    This will be readily understood on reference to the accom
 panying plates. Plate III. represents isochoric lines for acetic
 acid, and Plate IV. for nitric peroxide. Take the volume
 2000 cub. centims. per gram. The line AB represents the
 relations of temperature to pressure on the assumption that
 the formula of acetic acid is CsH402, and its corresponding
 density 30. The line EF represents similar relations on the
 assumption that the formula is C4H804, and the density 60.
 This line, it will be seen, also corresponds to a volume of
 4000 cub. centims. of gas of density 30. The line CD repre
 sents the observed relations of temperature to pressure for
 acetic acid when the volume is 2000 cub. centims. per gram.
 It is a curve of double flexure, which, if produced towards B,
 apparently might touch and become continuous with the line
 AB ; and if produced towards E might coincide with the line
   * We must here direct attention to an arithmetical mistake in our
 former paper, " On the Nature of Liquids " (Phil. Ma sr. Feb. 1887, p. 137).
 The density of nitric peroxide at — 12°-0 is stated to be 52-54, it should be
 42-54 ; and the deductions from that erroneous statement must therefore
 be withdrawn.
     Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 24. No. 147. Aug. 1887.                     P

210               Drs. Ramsay and Young on
EF. For these large volumes of gas, it is almost certain that
the density would become normal at a sufficiently high tem
perature ; but at low temperatures and pressures it cannot be
proved, owing to condensation, whether the molecular formula
would be C4H804; that is, whether the line CD would coincide
with the line EF.
   On Plate III. are also represented similar relations for ether,
at volumes of 4000 and 1000 cub. centims. per gram ; the
points representing the observed relations of temperature to
pressure fall on the isochoric lines ; that is to say, the diver
gence from Boyle's and Gay-Lussac's laws is too small to be
detected by experiment. At smaller volumes, however (those
at 300 and 250 cub. centims. per gram are shown), the line
passing through the observed points falls below the theoretical
line, but is not quite parallel to it. It follows therefore, that
if the isochoric lines are perfectly straight, they would cut the
normal isochoric lines at an extremely high temperature.
The physical meaning of this behaviour is that, if the tempera
ture of a gas, at constant volume, be raised sufficiently high,
the density must equal and then fall below the normal. It is
evident that this must be the case. For the pressure of a gas
depends on the number of molecules present in unit volume,
on the average velocity of each molecule, and on the number
of impacts on unit area of the surface of the containing vessel,
in unit time. With constant volume, since the mean distance
between the molecules remains constant, the cohesion of the
molecules is assumed to be constant. But the rise of pressure
produced by rise of temperature of a theoretical gas is based
on the assumption that each impact takes place at the centre of
each molecule; that is, that the actual volume of the molecules
themselves is nil. But as this is not the case, as impacts must
take place at some distance from the centres of the molecules,
they must necessarily be more frequent. The effect of cohesion
is to reduce the pressure of the gas, by reducing the average
velocity of the molecules, and this, for any given volume, by
a constant amount. Hence, below a certain temperature, the
pressure will be less than that of a normal gas, and if the
temperature be reduced sufficiently, will become negative.
With rise of temperature, the average velocity of each
molecule will increase at the same rate as in the case of a
theoretical gas ; but the number of impacts, and, consequently,
the pressure, will increase at a greater rate than if the gas
were perfect ; hence a temperature will ultimately be reached
when the pressure is as much decreased by cohesion, as it is
raised by the more frequent encounters of the molecules ;
and at that temperature the density of the gas will be normal.
At still higher temperatures the pressure, and therefore the

                    Evaporation and Dissociation.             211
value of the expression ~, will be greater, and the vapour-
density less, than that of a theoretical gas.
   The formula which we find to represent the relations of
temperature and pressure at constant volume, p = vt — a, repre
sents these facts. The reciprocal of the vapour-density is
the product of pressure and volume, divided by the product
of the absolute temperature into half the molecular weight, or
                         1     = PLX       2
                    vap. dens.    t    mol. wt."
Now while at small volumes the rate of diminution of volume
of a substance increases more and more slowly with rise of
pressure, there is no limit conceivable to the pressure which
may be applied.        Hence the value of the expression
must ultimately be greater than unity.        The relation of *-r-
to the pressure for ether has been calculated by means of our
equation for a few isothermals, and is shown in the annexed
figure. From the direction of the lines, it would appear that
if produced to still higher pressures, the product pv would
reach and exceed unity. This state has indeed been reached
by Natterer in compressing the so-called permanent gases at
temperatures far above the critical points.
   It is possible, by means of our equation, to follow these lines
into the unrealizable state, at low temperatures, where pressure
becomes negative. An example is given at 150°. It is ob
vious that those isothermals which include negative pressures
will intersect each other at the zero of pressure and         and
will form loops in the negative region. This is shown on PI. IV.
    It has recently been suggested by Wroblewski ( Wkn.
Monatsb. der Chemie, 1886, p. 383), in a paper from the con
clusions of which we differ in every point, that the minimum
values of pv mapped against pressure form a curve con
tinuous with the vapour-pressure curve. This is distinctly
 not the case. The curve is cut by the vapour-pressure
 curve at the critical point. It is, however, approximately
continuous with the curve shown on plate ix. in our previous
paper on this subject, representing the pressures corresponding
to the inferior apices of the serpentine isothermals. The mini
 mum product of pressure and volume probably does not occur
 at volumes corresponding to these apices, but at slightly lower
 volumes. We have proved this to be the case at high tempe
 ratures, and it is probably also the case at lower temperatures.
    In conclusion, we should state that we have purposely
                                 P2

212        Mr. T. M. Reade on the Secular Cooling of
 omitted reference to the formulae of Clausius, Van der Waals,
and Sarrau. It appears to us that the relations of a and b in
 our formula to the volume is by no means so simple as that
 expressed by their formulas.
 XXIII. Secular Cooling of the Earth in relation to Mountain-
      Building. By T. Mellakd Reade, C.E., F.G.S.'
 IN Chapter XI. of my ' Origin of Mountain-Ranges ' I
       attempted to show that the effects of secular cooling on
 the earth's crust would not be that assumed by what is now
 called the " Contraction theory " of Mountain-formation.
    But, first, it will be well to state what this theory is.
 Roughly speaking, then, the earth in its present state is con
sidered to be divided into two parts ; a cooled solid outer crust
 which does not contract, and a heated nucleus which dimi
 nishes in volume as it parts with its heat. From this it
 results that the hard crust, in fitting itself from time to time
 to the shrinking nucleus, throws up the ridges of the earth's
 surface called Mountain-ranges. This, in its crude form, is
 the theory which is usually presented to the reader.
    A very little consideration will serve to show that the
effects of the cooling of a body like the earth will be very
much more complex.
    If we assume the crust to be a hard shell, say 30 miles
thick, with a temperature of 50° at the outer surface, and
3050° at the inner surface, we shall find that the circum
ferential contraction of the inner surface of the shell in
cooling will be much more relatively than the radial contrac
tion of the earth from the centre to this zone ; consequently
the hard crust will at this zone be not in a state of compres
sion, but one of tension or stretching.
   By means of a diagram (plate 18) I have shown that an
outer portion or shell of this hard crust, of very limited depth,
will be in a state of compression ; but by far the larger
volume of the crust will constitute a "shell of contraction,"
where all the rocks constituting it will tend to stretch along
circumferential lines. This stretching would end in the frac
ture of the shell were it not for the weight of the superimposed
mass, which ensures continuity by what I have called " com
pressive extension."
   It is unnecessary for me to go into further details as the
reader can find the full particulars in the clnpter referred to-f;
excepting that I would point out that the external cooling
portion of the earth is shown to be divisible into a thin outer
             * Communicated hy the Author.
             t 'Origin of Mountain-Ranges,' pp. 121-128.

          the Earth in Relation to Mountain-Building.               213
shell — ofcompression greatest at the external surface, gradually
diminishing downwards until it. is nil at the under surface,
and an inner shell of much greater volume, in which the beds
are all in a state of tension by contraction, the contraction
being greatest at the zone of greatest cooling, and nil on the
inner and outer surfaces of the shell. Hence it follows that
at the zone of contact of these imaginary shells the rock will
be neither subject to tension nor compression.
   Below these shells exists an uncooled nucleus, geologically
speaking, of hitherto nearly constant volume.
   In a recent paper* Mr. C. Davison .arrives at practically
the same results, although he makes no reference to my work,
which was published in 188G. If Mr. Davison reached his
results without knowing of 1111119 it strengthens my case
considerably, and I am glad to have confirmation from so able
a mathematician.
   But while we are practically agreed as to the strains set up
in the crust of a cooling earth, we entirely differ as to their
geological consequences. Without committing myself to Mr.
Davison's numerical results, 1 will for present purposes accept his
calculation that the shell of compression is now five miles deep.
   I confess I cannot follow Mr. Davison in considering that
" owing to the pressure of the continental masses, crust-
stretching by lateral tension takes place principally beneath the
ocean-basins." Assuming that the isogeotherms follow .ap
proximately the surface-contours of the land, whether beneath
or above the level of the oceans, the greater pressure will be over
the ocean-basins, as the weight of ocean-water will be addi
tional to that of an equal depth of crust. It is, however, quite
as probable that the cooled crust is thicker under the oceans,
and such is assumed by many physicists. It also appears to me
to be a physical misconception to suppose that a portion of
the earth's crust would stretch like a cooling bar of iron held
firmly in a vice at either end, or that the pressure of the con
tinental masses would take the piace of the vices by holding
down the contracting body. I have tried to form a mental
picture of the relation Mr. Davison wishes to show existing
between coast-lines, earthquakes, sedimentation, and mountain-
building, but must confess my inability to do so with the aid
only of the abstract.
   The statement that " the rate of mountain-making dimi
nishes w ith the increase of time " is opposed to all geological
fact. The greatest mountains are the youngest ; and Mur-
   * " On the Distribution of Strain in the Earth's Crust resulting froro
Secular Cooling, with special reference to the Growth of Continents and
the Formation of Mountain-chains." Received by the Royal Society,
April 7, 1887, and just published in abstract.

214             Mr. C. V. Boys on an Addition to
chison even held the view that at an early period of the earth's
history there were no great mountains *. We have ample
grounds for believing neither view to be correct.
    Prof. Bonney, in a Note appended to Mr. Davison's paper,
attempts to further elucidate the geological results that would
follow from this view of the effects of the earth's contraction.
I am sorry that I am unable to agree with his suggestions.
When 1 wrote the chapter referred to I felt, if the views
there expounded were admitted (which they practically are by
Messrs. Davison and Bonney), that they were fatal to the
Contraction-theory of Mountain-building ; I think so still.
    In what way, 1 may ask, could gneissic axial cores, having
the fan-structure which characterizes most great mountain-
 ranges, have been forced up and the overlying beds thrown
back upon themselves, if the tangential compression, gradually
 diminishing downwards, did not extend five miles vertically
 into the earth's crust? for during the early periods of mountain-
making the depth of crust under compression must have been,
 according to Mr. Davison, much less.
    For myself I go much further, and say that such axial cores
 and other phenomena of mountain-ranges which I have else
 where dealt with at length, cannot be satisfactorily accounted
for except on the hypothesis, within certain limits, of the
 compression increasing, not diminishing, with the depth.
    To illustrate these effects I made a series of experiments,
which are partially detailed in pp. 331-333 and plate 42.
    Although we differ radically in some important particulars,
 I welcome Messrs. Davison and Bonney's theoretical investiga
 tions, as truth cannot but gain by the friction of various ideas.
XXIV. On an Addition to Bunsen's Ice- Calorimeter. By
    C. V. Boys, A.B.S.M., Demonstrator of Physics at the
    Science Schools, S. Kensington-^.
 IT is probable that no single instrument has excited so much
       admiration on the part of physicists as Bunsen's calori
 meter ; its beautiful simplicity, its marvellous sensibility, and
 its accuracy in skilled hands place it in the first rank among
 instruments employed in investigations for which it is avail
 able. In our uncertain climate, however, it is not often found
 in actual use ; for unless a large supply of perfectly pure snow,
 free from all saline contamination, can be obtained, it cannot
 be employed to its fullest advantage, and because possibly,
 according to Bunsen's directions, it should be used in a room
 not much above the freezing-point.
                     * ' Siluria,' fifth edition, p. 408.
                     + Communicated by the Author.

                     Bunsen's Ice-Calorimeter.               215
    If the instrument is filled properly with pure water boiled
to drive out the air, and is then set up in common ice scraped
into an artificial snow with a chisel, the minute amount of
salt included in cavities is sufficient to lower the temperature
of the outer ice below the melting-point of the ice in the
instrument ; and thus, inappreciable in other ways as this
difference is, it causes a steady freezing of the water in the
calorimeter, which is quite sufficient to make accurate work
impossible.
   In consequence of the attention that has been given to this
instrument, not only by the inventor but by other physicists
of experience, I naturally hesitate to make any suggestion for
its improvement. I dare not call the slight modification
about to be described an improvement, but an addition is a
term which I may safely employ.
   The reason, as already stated, why this instrument fails to
work satisfactorily when used with ordinary ice is that there
is a slight difference of temperature between the inside and
the outside. In consequence of the continuous contact of the
outer ice or snow with the whole surface of the glass, the con
ductivity for heat is very great—that is, the amount that will
enter or leave the instrument for 1° difference is very great.
The amount of heat passing through the walls is the product
of the difference of temperature by the conductivity. This
 product is usually made very small by making only one factor
very small. It can more easily be made small by making
both factors small ; if one is very small, so much the better.
   This process of reasoning is so obvious that it can hardly
fail to have been used by some ; but I have not heard that it
has, nor am I aware of its ever having been put to the test of
experiment. I have therefore lately compared the behaviour
of an instrument put up in the usual way, but in common ice,
with the same instrument arranged to bave a small conduc
tivity and in the same ice.
   The plan that I have adopted to reduce the conductivity,
while still retaining the power to increase it to its usual ex
tent at will, is to provide a protecting cover of glass in which
the instrument can lie, the two tubes passing through and
being supported by a thin indiarubber cork fixed into the
upper end of the glass cover.
   There is a third hole in the cork, through which is passed a
 glass tube with a stopcock. If there is any hurry to cool the
 instrument, ice-cold water is poured in upon the ice so as to
 reach above the lower end of the protecting tube, and the
 stopcock opened and the air drawn out if necessary until the
 water reaches the cork. The water may be changed once or
twice by blowing through the stopcock and drawing out the

216          Addition to Bunsen's Ice- Calorimeter.
air again ; thus the instrument is quickly brought to the
freezing-point. The water may then be drained away, when
the instrument will be left in an ice-cold chamber, but Dot
in contact with anything but air, except at its upper end.
   For this arrangement the two tubes above the joint should
be two or three times the usual length, but an ordinary in
strument can easily be adapted by prolonging those tubes at
their upper end. It is essential that both tubes be carried
through the ice much further than usual, so that no heat may
be conducted down to the working part, as any stray heat
would be more mischievous than usual, in consequence of the
insulation of the instrument. The upper end cut off from
a gas jar makes a convenient glass cover. Its projecting
rim should be placed above, where it serves to support the
whole instrument, if it is allowed to rest on a tripod-ring
standing in the ice-box. The index-tube that I have used
has a mean capacity of "0001285 cub. centim. per milli
metre, very nearly as fine as that used by Bunsen. The in
strument was carefully filled with the distilled water from the
general supply, which occasionally is found to be by no means
pure. From the steady melting observed in the experiments,
it would appear to contain some impurity. The ice used in
the box was ordinary Norway ice. When the instrument
was put up in the usual way in this ice, the movement of the
index showed generally a melting in the instrument, which
was reduced enormously when it was surrounded by its cover
and placed in the same ice. With the cover, in some cases,
there was a movement of not more than 1 millim. in about
 three hours ; but I did not, in these cases, obtain a perfectly
 trustworthy comparison. In one case, when the movement
 was greater, I measured the rate with the cover, then without,
 and then with the cover again. It showed a melting at the
 rate of 4 millim. an hour with the cover, of 27 an hour with
 out the cover, of 30 an hour without the cover the next day,
 and of 4 an hour with it on again. Thus, by means of the
 cover the instrument was brought from a state in which the
unfavourable conditions made it almost unserviceable to one in
 which it could be well used . In another case I purposely put a
 trace of salt with the ice in the box, and found the rate of
 freezing to be from 8 to 10 times as great without the cover
 as with. In all these cases the instrument had been quickly
 taken from the ice, had its cover removed, and been at once
 replaced in the cavity left in the ice by the cover. The ice
 was then pressed down with a stick ; but it is probable that
 there was by no means so continuous a current as there would
 have been had the freshly-cut ice been put in after the instru
 ment. Hence it is probable that the ratio of about 7 to 1

                                   Geological Society.                        217
      observed hardly represents the full value of the insulation given
      by the cover. The temperature of the room during the ex
      periments varied between 22° and 23° C. There can be little
      doubt that if favourable conditions, that is, pure snow out
      side, pure water inside, &c. were obtained, and if the instru
      ment were more carefully insulated, the column might be kept
      far more steady than is possible in the usual way.
          In a few words, by the use of the cover we allow the in
      strument to remain at its own freezing-point, instead of
      trying to compel it to assume some temperature which may
      be, which is sure to be, slightly different.
                    XXV. Proceedings of Learned Societies.
                                 GEOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
                                  [Continued from p. 141.]
        April 6, 1887.—Prof. J. W. Judd, F.R.S., President, in the Chair.
      THE following communications were read :—
            1. "On the Rocks of the Malvern Hills." Part II. By Frank
      Rutley, Esq., F.G.S.
          The details of the microscopic examination of the rocks constituted
       the principal part of the present paper. The Author finds that the
       truly eruptive rocks are more plentiful in the range than ho was
       at first led to suppose. In all 33 rock-specimens were described, and
      in some cases Mr. Timmins's analyses were quoted. The author
       commenced with the rocks of the Jiorth Hill and concluded with
       those of the Raggedstone Hill. Itocks between a little south of the
       summit of the Worcestershire Heacon on to M ind's Point, those of
       Midsummer Hill, and those of Keys Hill were not collected. The
       following are the general results : —
                               Eruptive.               Foliated.          Stratified.
North Hill.             llornblende-gabbro.    Gneissic Syenite.    Altered Tuff?
                        Diorite.               Gneissic Diorite.
                        Quartz-syenite.
North Hill (above       Mica-diorite.          Biotite-gneiss.
  West Malvern).
North Hill (The Mica-diorite.
  Dingle).
Worcestershire Beacon Granulite?
                        Granite.
                        Diorite.
                        Epidotite ?
Herefordshire Beacon Euorite.                  Hornblendie Gneiss.  Diabase-tuff?
                        Basalt.
                        Devitrified Obsidian.
Swinyard's Hill         Pegmatite.             Biotite-gneiss.
                        Hornblende-pegmatite.  Biotite-mnscovite.
                        Diorite.               Gneiss.
Hollybush Pass          Diabase.
Baggedstone Hill                               Mica-schist.         Altered Sandstone.
                                               Micaceous Quartzite- Quartzite.
                                                  scbist.

218                      Geological Society :¦
   In the first instance a separation must be effected of rocks show
ing foliation or lamination, or of which the origin has been sedi
mentary, from those which show no such structure, and which must
be regarded as eruptive : there is, in fact, a banded and an un
handed series. The gneisses are altered volcanic tuffs or sedimen
tary rocks of eruptive material derived from the disintegration of
rocks of dioritic or syenitic character.
   The rocks of the North Hill, as may be gathered from the tabular
classi6cation, are truly eruptive in many cases ; whilst the foliated
varieties are made up of the debris of rocks rich in hornblende,
•which may have had an eruptive origin. The rocks of the Here
fordshire Beacon are chiefly gneissic : the eucrite-basalt occurs at a
buttress of the hill. The pegmatite of Swinyard's Hill has appa
rently been faulted into its present position. South of Midsummer
Hill fine-grained gneissic rocks, quartzite-schists, &c, are met with.
   There is no reason to suppose that the alteration of any ordinary
sedimentary rocks could have resulted in such a vast amount of
hornblende as is found in these gneisses. The gneissic rocks of the
Malvern Hills may be composed of the detritus of eruptive rocks.
   The rocks of the Malvern Hills show in their structure but little
resemblance to the foliation induced by shearing, the crystals seldom
exhibiting any marked lenticular form, while there is but little
likeness to the pseudo-fluxion structure described by Lehmann, &c.
   The Author concluded that the rocks of the Malvern Hills re
present part of an old district consisting of plutonic and, possibly,
of volcanic rocks associated with tuffs, sedimentary rocks com
posed mainly or wholly of eruptive materials, and grits and sand
stones ; that the structural planes in these rocks (sometimes cer
tainly, at others possibly) indicate planes of stratification, and that
the foliation, in many cases if not in all, denotes lamination due to
deposition either in water or on land surfaces, probably more or
less accentuated or altered by the movements which produced the
upheavals, subsidences, and flexures prevalent in the range.
    2. " On the alleged Conversion of Crystalline Schists into Igneous
Bocks in County Galway." By C. Callaway, E?q., D.Sc, F.(i S.
    This paper was an inquiry into the theory, held by many Irish
geologists, that granite and other igneous rocks are the last term
 in a progressive series in the metamorphism of aqueous sediments.
 The evidence collected by the Author was regarded as entirely
 hostile to this view. In Knockseefin, the typical section, he found
 diorite intrusive in gneiss and granite intrusive in the diorite, but
 no passage between any two. The igneous veins sometimes displayed
a foliated structure. At Shaunarea the phenomena were similar ;
 but the granite in contact with the gneiss was much crushed and
 decomposed. In the region south of Glendalough the intrusion of
 granite in diorite and schist gave rise to the peculiar mixtures which
 had been described as "metamorphosed conglomerate." The granite
 was intruded along the joints of the diorite, sometimes separating
 the joint-blocks from each other, and completely enclosing them.
 It was noticed that when schists were penetrated by granite isolated

    Genesis of the Crystalline Schists of the Malvern Hills.      219
folia often retained their parallelism, and this was accounted for
partly by the slowness of the intrusion, partly by regional pressure.
Even when mere flakes of the schist were enclosed in granite there
was no passage between the two. The granite, both in masses and
veins, was often foliated, but the blocks of included diorite were
not ; and this seemed to suggest that the foliation of the granite
was acquired before complete congelation of the larger masses.
There was also a foliation concentric to included blocks of diorite.
   At the town of Galway the " metamorphic sedimentary " rocks
were a coarse-grained hornblendic gneiss of Hebridean aspect, and
in some parts of it was a structure similar to that of the " meta
morphosed conglomerate ; " but the included blocks of diorite had
acquired a definite orientation, apparently due to pressure. An
igneous origin for some of the coarser gneisses was thus suggested.
It was concluded that there was no proof of the conversion of schists
into igneous rocks, the evidence collected tending to show, on the
other hand, that igneous rocks were sometimes converted into schists.
    3. " A Preliminary Inquiry into the Genesis of the Crystalline
Schists of the Malvern Hills." By C. Callaway, Esq., D.Sc, F.G.S.
    The Author's researches amongst the crystalline rocks of Con-
naught had suggested certain lines of investigation which had sub
sequently been followed out in the Malvern district. He had satis
fied himself that many of the Malvern schists had been formed out
of igneous rocks; but at present he limited himself to certain
varieties.
    Tho materials from which these schists were produced were dio
 rite (several varieties), granite, and felsite.
    The metamorphism had been brought about by lateral pressure.
 Evidence of this was seen in the intense contortion of granite-veins
 and in the effects of crushing as observed under the microscope.
    The products of the metamorphism were divided into two
 groups : —
    A. Simple schists, or those formed from one kind of rock. The
 varieties described were the following :—-Hornblende-gneiss, or dio
 rite which had been crushed and modified. Mica-yneiss, formed
 from granite. In the first stage of the crushing, the quartz and
 felspar lay in lenticular fragments, separated from each other by
 cracks, the fragments and cracks being roughly parallel. As the
 metamorphism proceeded, the cracks became less evident, and the
 respective minerals were flattened out into c&mparatively uniform
folia. Mica gradually came in, at first in the form of a partial
 coating to felspar crystals, and, at a further stage, in regular
 folia. Mica-schist, formed from felsite. The felsite gradually
 acquired a parallel structure. Pan passu with this mechanical
 alteration, a mineral change was observed. Mica at first appears
 in very small quantity, either filling cracks or accentuating the
 parallelism. In a more advanced stage, the mica lies in imperfect
 folia, and sometimes forms a partial coating to grains of quartz.
 At last there is little left but quartz and mica, the latter in folia,
 and enveloping individual quartz granules.

 220                      Geological Society :—
    B. Injection schists, formed by the intrusion of veins, which had
acquired parallelism by pressure. Veins of diorito in diorite pro
duced duplex diorite-gneiss, and veins of granite in diorite origi
nated granite diorite-gneiss.
    It was further noted that
    (1) Generally the particular varieties of schist occurred in the
vicinity of the igneous masses to which they were most nearly
related in mineral composition.
    (2) The mineral banding of the rocks in the field was more like
vein-structure than stratification.
    The Author accepted the received view of the age of tho schists.
The parallel structure was clearly antecedent to the Cambrian
epoch, and the occurrence of similar rocks as fragments in the
 Uriconian conglomerate of Shropshire seemed to indicate that the
 Malvernian schists were older Archaean.
     April 27.—Prof. J. W. Judd, F.R.S., President, in the Chair.
    The following communications were read :—
    1. "On the London Clay and Bagshot Beds of Aldershot." By
 H. G. Lyons, Esq., K.E., F.G.S.
    The Author first described the section from Thorn Hill on the
N. to Redan Hill on the S., plotted from the 6-in. Ordnance Survey
 on a scale of 6 in. to 1 mile horizontal, and 12 in. to 1 mile vertical.
 This section comprises beds from the Woolwich and Reading series
to the Upper Bagshot inclusive. It showed a dip of 2|° to the N.,
 which is regular or nearly so throughout. A few feet of Upper-
 Bagshots occur on Thorn Hill (365 feet) ; at the base of those the
 Pebble-Bed crops out, forming also much of tho surface of the South
 Camp. The Middle Bagshots on the south slope of the hiU are
 estimated from the South Camp boring at 53 feet, with a marked
 clay-bed at the base ; and below these a few feet of the Lower Bag-
 shots are exposed in tho intervening valley. The greater part of
 Redan Hill (304 feet) is made up of Lower Bagshots ; but towards
 the top a few feet of the basal clays of the Middle Bagshots have
 been exposed by a recent trench. Although the elevation is prac
 tically the same as that of Thorn Hill, the rest of the Bagshot series
 is cut out owing to the northerly dip. These results differ from
 those of previous observers, e. g. the Geological Survey carry the
 Lower Bagshots to the top of tho Redan Hill, as do Messrs. Monck-
 ton and Herries ; whilst of the anticlinal, alleged by Mr. Irving to
 exist in this traverse, there appears to be no trace. The Author
 also observed that the arguments for overlap of the upper beds and
 for the erosion of the London Clay are not borne out by the facts.
     The second section described runs from Gravel- Pit Hill on the N.
 to Ash Green on tho S. It was drawn to the same scale, and showed
 the beds from the Chalk to the Middle Bagshots inclusive. Dip
 northerly 2|° to 2° 50' at south end. A spur of the Fox Hills
 (Gravel-Pit Hill) is seen to consist of Upper Bagshots of the normal
 type down to the lower shoulder of the spur, which is capped by the
 Pebble-beds marking the junction of the Upper and Middle Bag

               Note on the Walton Common Section.                   221
shots. The Ash-station well shows the basement-beds of the Lower
Bagshots, of a character very similar to those in the Brookwood and
South-Camp deep boring. The position of the outcrop of the London
Clay also is in favour of a regular and persistent northerly dip,
corresponding in degree with that given at East Wyko farm by
Messrs. Monckton and Hemes. The thickness of the London Clay
was calculated at 330 feet, which is about the same as at South Camp,
leaving no margin for its erosion before the deposition of the Bag-
shots.
   The third section was drawn, also on the same scale, through Alder-
shot town, showing the beds from the Woolwich and Beading series
to the Middle Bagshots inclusive. The dip is 2\° to the N., and
regular, as in the other two cases. Tbo following thicknesses are
given: —                                                  ft.
           Middle Bagshots                         about 55
           Lower Bagshots                            „ 115
           London Clay                               „ 335
   It was inferred from various calculations, as also from direct obser
vation, that the thickness of the London Clay shows no diminution
throughout the section, being nearly the same also at Ash and at
Aldershot Place.
   In " Caesar's Camp " the Pebble-bed occurs at altitudes ranging
from 500 to 550 feet.
   The Author concluded that wherever we can fix the top or base
of the London Clay we get a northerly dip of 2|° to 3°, showing a
fairly constant thickness of from 330 to 340 feet. The same thing
 occurs from Odiham on the west to Ash on the east, whilst at
Brookwood the London Clay is thicker. He also assumed the exist
ence of a passage from the London Clay up into the Bagshot beds in
the deep wells or borings at Wellington College, at Brookwood, and
at South Camp. Henco at these points there can have been no
great erosion or unconformity. The overlying Bagshots lie conform
 ably on the London Clay and on each other.
   2. " Supplementary Note on tho Walton Common Section." By
W. H. Hudleston, Esq., M.A., F.E.S., Sec.G.S.
   The principal object of this paper was to point out the occurrence
of certain beds of clay or loam in what are usually known as the
" Lower Bagshot Sands " of West Surrey. It was shown that the
sandy series, no. 3, of the previous paper is overlain by a second
clay series, no. 4, whose mode of occurrence and lithology were de
scribed. This is again succeeded by a third sandy scries, no. 5,
which, it is believed, is maintained throughout the remainder of the
cutting as far as the Kiver Wey, with occasional clay patches de
posited in small basin-shaped hollows of the sand.
   The nature and geological position of tho brick-earth of Hatch
 on Woburn Hill was next described. This forms a portion of the
 " clays most extensively developed between Addlcstone and Chert-
 sey," referred by Prof. Prestwich to his Middle Bagshots, and
 mapped as such by the Geological Survey. The clay is seen to

222           Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
occur as a lenticular mass, 21 ft. thick at its maximum, in a hollow of
loose yellow sand ; the current-bedding of the upper loamy layers is
very marked towards the north end, with a strong false dip to the
south, i. e. towards the centre of the basin.
   Accepting as the true datum line for the base of the Middle
Bagshots in this district, "the foliated clays, more or less sandy,
having a thickness of 14 ft.," which are shown by Prof. Prestwich
to be typically developed in the railway-cutting on Goldsworth Hill,
it was contended that the Hatch brick-earth cannot be correlated with
these. The true basal beds of the Middle Bagshots in this district
differ somewhat in their physical characters ; but it was on strati-
graphical grounds mainly that the Author endeavoured to show
that the Hatch brick-earth should, despite its argillaceous nature,
be assigned to the Lower Bagshots. A diagrammatic section from
St. George's Hill (245 ft.), through Woburn Hill (92 ft.), to St.
Ann's Hill (230 ft.), was given, and the possible existence of a trough
or synclinal towards the centre of the soction discussed. It was shown
from the position of the Hatch brick-earth that if the Lower Bag-
shots retain anything like the mean thickness of, say 120 ft., which
prevails in this district, the London Clay surface must here be 60 ft.
below 0. D., on the supposition that these beds represent the basal
clays of the Middle Bagshots ; whereas, at Chertsey, in the valley
of the Thames itself, the London Clay surface coincides with 0. D.
   In conclusion, it was held (1) that the more we study the Bagshot
beds of this area the less likely are we to see a passage between the
curiously diversified Lower Bagshota and the much more uuiform
and homogeneous London Clay ; (2) that, until we realize the con
siderable though sporadic development of clays in the Lower Bag-
shots, we shall bo in danger of referring beds to the Middle Bag-
shots which do not belong to them, and thereby give encouragement
to a speculative stratigraphy which can only mislead.
         XXVI. Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
   A NEW METHOD OF REDUCING OBSERVATIONS RELATING TO
                         SEVERAL QUANTITIES.
      To the Editors of the Philosophical Magazine and Journal.
      Gentlemen,
 ly/TAT I call the attention of your readers to a method of redu-
        cing observations relating to several quantities, which I have
 described in the current number of Hermathena (Trinity College,
 Dublin). This method is a generalization of that Method of Situa
 tion which Laplace has applied to observations relating to a single
quantity, in the second supplement to his Theorie Analytique.
    The method may be thus described in the case of two variables,
x and y. Find an approximate solution by some rough process
(such as simply adding together several of the equations so as to
form two independent simultaneous equations). Take the point

              Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.               223
thus determined as a new origin, and substitute in the n (trans
formed) equations for one of the variables x a series of values
+S, +2t, &c. Corresponding to each of these substitutions we have
n equations for y. For each of these systems determine the Median
according to Laplace's Method of Situation. This series of Medians
forms one locus for the sought point. A second locus is found by
transposing x and y in the directions just given. The intersection
of these loci is the required point.
   The method may be extended to any number of variables. For
example, in the case of four variables, x, y, z, iv, we should con
struct one table containing the Median values of w corresponding
to each triplet of values assigned to x, y, z ; and three similar tables
for the Median, values of x, y, z, respectively. The system of values
for x, y, z, w, which is identical in all the tables, forms the required
solution.
   The advantages claimed for the new method are tbat, while in
the typical case of the laws of facility being all Probability Curves,
the generalized Method of Situation is only slightly less accurate,
and is considerably less laborious, than the Metlwd of Least Squares ;
in the abnormal case of Discordant Observations the proposed
 method is not only more convenient, but better.
   It is much to be wished that some practical astronomer would
 give this method a trial by employing it in some laborious and
 important calculation.                           F. Y. Edgewobth,
                                                King's College, London.
   A NEW PHOTOGRAPHIC SPECTROSCOPE. BY C. C. HUTCH1NS.
   The constant demands of spectrum analysis for ever increasing
accuracy can be satisfied only by instruments of the highest dis
persion and most perfect defining-powers ; and when applied to
 photography the dispersion must be produced directly, and not by
 enlarging lenses at the camera. The large apparatus of Eowland
 does this most beautifully, as the writer, who has used it for the
 past year, can testify ; but the fact that a large room must be set
 aside for its accommodation, and moreover that the large concave
 gratings are very difficult to obtain, will forbid its use to most
 workers.
    I have therefore devised the following simple and, it would seem
 upon short trial, effective arrangement for producing the desired
 results :—
    A rather long slit is placed at the focus of a crown-glass (or,
 better, quartz) lens of 40-feet focus. The ray from the slit, after
 passing through the lens, falls upon a large flat grating, mounted
 to turn about an axis passing through the middle line of the ruled
 surface. The spectrum is projected by the same lens upon a hori
 zontal arc of 40-feet radius, and is observed a little to one side or
 above the slit. The spectrum will not be normal throughout its
 length unless the radius of projection be kept constant. I think
 this had better be provided for by employing two lenses of crown-
 glass, the one nearer the grating fixed, the other movable, than by

224          Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
the use of a corrected lens, to avoid the absorption of flint-glass in
the achromatic combination.
   More or less absorption when glass is used is unavoidable ; and
this, with the variation of the focal plane of the lens for light of
different wave-lengths, constitutes the most serious defects of the
apparatus—defects which are avoided in the Rowland instrument.
However, compensating advantages are not wanting. The Eowland
apparatus integrates all impressions received at the slit. The
ordinary comparison-prism cannot be used with it, and the lower
orders of spectra are too narrow to admit of convenient division at
the camera ; in fact, the spectra begin at nothing at the slit, and
spread in a widening band as we move toward the higher orders.
   The new instrument possesses the advantages of the analyzing-
spectroscope. The spectrum can be made wide or narrow, or di
vided at the slit. A preliminary trial has given the following
results : —A flat grating of 14,000 lines to the inch and a ruled
surface 2x 1£ inches was employed, with a lens of 37-feet focus.
The latter was placed close to the grating, and its spectrum ob
served near the slit. In the second spectrum 6, and b2 were fully
an inch apart as projected on a screen, and D, and Da had a sepa
ration of 13 to 14 millim.
   The excellence of the definition is shown by the fact that, with
an ordinary reading-glass of 6-inch focus, E was seen double, and
 fourteen lines were counted between D1 and Ds. With this
form of apparatus the amount of dispersion can be varied at
pleasure by simply altering the relative distances of slit and camera
from the grating, but in such a way that slit and camera shall
occupy conjugate foci of the lens.—Silliman's American Journal,
July 1887.
     ON THE ELECTRIFICATION OF GASKS BY IGNITED BODIES.
                    BY J. ELSTER AND II. GE1TEL.
   The results of this investigation may be summed upas follows :—
   (1) The phenomenon that insulated conductors near an ignited
body are electrically charged holds also for gases, which have been
freed from dust by filtration through glycerine wadding.
   (2) This holds also even when the rarefaction is raised to the
extreme limits of a Crookes's tube.
   (3) The electrification is positive for red heat ; and all tempera
tures beyond in all gases as yet examined, with the exception of
hydrogen, which at a high temperature has the opposite behaviour.
   (4) For air and carbonic acid the maximum of electrification is
at a yellow heat.
   (5) The layer of gas which surrounds an incandescent body
shows a different deportment as respects positive and negative
electricity. That electricity whose sign is opposite that developed
in the gas by ignition is most rapidly discharged.—Wiedemann's
Annalen, No. 5, 1887.

                              THE
        LONDON, EDINBURGH, and DUBLIN
 PHILOSOPHICAL                          MAGAZINE
                              AND
      JOURNAL                 OF       SCIENCE.
                      [FIFTH SERIES.]
                   SEPTEMBER 1887.
XXVII. On some Methods of Determining and Comparing
   Coefficients of Self-induction and Mutual Induction. By
   Prof. C. Niven, F.R.S.*
§ 1. T>ROF. CAREY FOSTER'S paper, published in the
      J- Philosophical Magazine (February 1887), has lately
recalled attention to the methods of comparing or determining
coefficients of induction by means of- the galvanometer. He
has shown how to express the coefficient of induction of two
coils in terms of the capacity of a condenser. The problem
there presented is one of several which arise in the comparison
of the three kinds of transient currents which are met with
(1) in the charge of condensers, (2) in the mutual induction
of two circuits, (3) in the self-induction of a circuit.
    Of the corresponding problems which occur in the compa
rison of electrical constants three may be looked upon as still
somewhat imperfectly solved. These are the comparison of
two coefficients of self-induction, the comparison of a coeffi
cient of self-induction of a coil with that of mutual induction
between any other two coils, and the determination of a coeffi
cient of self-induction in terms of the capacity of a condenser.
 Prof. Chrystal has indeed given, in his paper on the Differen
tial Telephone, various solutions of the last ; but his methods
 involve the use of the telephone, while Maxwell's method in
 this case requires that a single adjustment should secure both
 no steady current through the galvanometer and no transient
 current. The same remark applies to his method of com
paring the coefficients of self-induction of two coils ; and his
                  • Communicated by the Author.
   Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 24. No. 148. Sept. 1887.         Q

 226       Prof. C. Niven on Determining and Comparing
  solution of the second problem only compares the coefficient
  of self-induction of a coil with that of the mutual induction
  between this coil and another.
      It seemed desirable so to extend these methods that in the
  first two cases the adjustments for no permanent and no
  transient current should be independent of each other, and to
  obtain the means of comparing the self-induction of any coil
  with that of the mutual induction of any two other coils.
     The differential galvanometer appears at first sight to possess
  special advantages for these problems ; but the methods are
  easily adapted to the Wheatstone-bridge, which practically
  converts the ordinary into a differential galvanometer ; and
  the adjustments with it are more easily effected than with the
 other, which usually requires for these methods that the coils
 of the galvanometer should be suitably shunted.
     I shall therefore begin by giving methods adapted to the
 ordinary galvanometer, reserving to the end of each article an
 account of those which may be employed with the differential
 galvanometer.
     § 2. In these inquiries it is useful to know not only the
 condition that there should be no current through the instru
 ment, but also the expression for the total flow when this
 condition is not satisfied, in order to be able to select the best
 arrangement of the bridge so that the galvanometer shall be
 most sensitive, and in the case of the differential galvanometer
 to ascertain what shunts should be used with it. And for this
 purpose Maxwell's method is particularly suitable.
    Let a network of conductors be considered to form a system
 of meshes the currents round which are i, y, . . . , and let elec
 tromotive forces Ej, • . act along the sides of these : let also
                T=i(Li" + 2Miy + Ny« +...), ")
                F = i(au.i4 + 2al2iy-|-as^8 + ...), V    .   .   (1)
                E=E„(i-y)+...,                      )
T being work dissipated in heat in the conductors.
    The general equations of the system are typified by
                       dt \dx ) + dk~dk                         (2)
If we have also condensers, the poles of which are attached
to the network, each of these may be considered as forming
an additional mesh ; and if u be the charge of one of these at
any time, the current round the corresponding mesh is «, and
must be included in the expressions for T, F, E. The energy
employed in charging the condensers will usually be of the form

        Coefficients of Self-induction and Mutual Induction.        227
                           H=*(g +...),            .....             (3)
 C being the capacity of the condenser whose charge is u. The
general equations of the system are of the form
                      d (dT\ + dF+dK _dE                            ^
                     dt \dx / dx        dx ~ dx'
    To find the impulsive currents at the instant of making or
breaking circuit we may integrate (4) once for all. We thus
 obtain
                                          0.
                        dxU    J dx
    The first term of this equation involves the initial and final
currents of the system, which may in most cases be written
down at once : the second term
                        = anx + auy + ...}
where x,y... are the total flows of the currents round the
several meshes. In any particular case, therefore, we may
easily write down this equation if we know the expressions
for T, F.
    The equation of the type
                      dt \dii/ dit        du
must be treated differently. Suppose, for example, that we
are considering the effect of making the battery-current.
When the currents are steady and the condensers have re
ceived their full charge,
                           £ rfT
                           dt ' du    '
and the equation becomes
                           du     du       '
the symbols x, y, u — denoting the final values of these
magnitudes, and u being put =0.
§ 3. To Balance the Current of Self-induction by a Condenser*.
    Method I.—Suppose the resistances in AB, BC, CD, DA,
AP be a, b, d, c, R ; that in the battery B ; L the coefficient
   * Since this paper was placed in the printers' hands I have seen Mr.
Rimington's paper in the July number of the Philosophical Magazine,
from which it appears that he has anticipated me in some of the results
of this article.
                                  Q 2

228      Prof. C. Niven on Determining and Comparing
of self-induction of the coil or electromagnet in AD ; C the
capacity of the condenser; the currents in the meshes as
marked.
 T=iL(i—uf,
 F = i { ati^T + Ri^f + e—Ba + Gl~=y + dy* + bf^z + Bi8},
 H=iu2/C.
 The equations for the transient currents are
         a . x— e + R. x—u + c — TLc+ Qx —y= — Lio,
               dy +b.y — z               —Gx—y = 0,
                   —a(x—z)—b.y—z + Bz          =0,
                   -Ri0 + w/C=0,
 x0 being the final current in AD.
    Putting x—y=y,
             a + c+G . y + a + cy—az= (CR9— L)i0,
                   — G .7+ b + dy— bz = 0,
                   —ay     —a + by + a + b + B.z=0.
 The determination of 7 is simplified by recollecting that c- = d
                                                                7.
 and thus                                           *      a b
                          = (CR8-lVq.z>
                         7 a + c+G. b + aG'
  and
             x0 = z0(a + b)/(a + b + c + d)
                _ _a_          E        _      aE
                ~~ a + e ^ , c(a + b) ~ B.a + c + c.a + b

       Coefficients of Self-induction and Mutual Induction. 229
   The condition 7=0 implies that L = CR8. If this should
 involve the use of inconveniently high resistances for R, we
 may diminish the effect of L by shunting Rj, the coil itself,
 by a resistance S. The expressions for T, F will bo changed
 into
            T=iL.^*,
             F=|{R1.JZ^S+S.^M,+R'-i^s + ... },
 where Rj is the resistance of the coil, R the whole resistanoe
 between A and P, R' = R — Rt.
   The expression for 7 will be the same as before, except the
first factor, which now becomes ¦
This remarkable proposition, that the effect of a shunt on the
self-induction of a coil is to diminish it in the ratio
                            S8: (Rj + S)8,
is of great use in comparing two coils with each other.
   If we write 7=E(CR8-L)/A,
         A = (B.a + c + c.a + b)(a + ~c.b + a + b . G)/ai.
The value of A indicates the most suitable magnitudes to
choose for the other resistances in the bridge.
   (1) If a = b,
                    A = (Be + B +    . a) (l + ^^)-
This expression is a minimum when
                   , Bc(c + 2G)
                 a =      B + 2o '

230      Prof. C. Niven on Determining and Comparing
For example, if e- 600, B = 20, G=300,
                      9_ 20x600x1200
                    a ~        1220      ;
and a may be chosen about 100 ohms.
    (2) If c and b be chosen, A will be a minimum when
               &2. a + c + G=aQ .(B.a + c + ac).
   As an illustration of these methods, the field-magnets of an
Elwell-Parker dynamo were measured by a condenser having
a capacity of g microfarad. The resistance of the field-
magnets was found to be 23*5 ohms, and when shunted the
combined resistance of the magnets and shunt was 7-6. a, b, d
were taken = 100, 100, 1031 ; and by the aid of a rheostat
and coils the resistance c was made up to 1031, when no
permanent current was observed.
   When R= 1011, the kick due to the self-induction appeared
to be balanced by the condenser ; but the observation was not
quite satisfactory, as the current of self-induction seemed to
last longer than the other.
   Thus,                     ,
                 L'W*) =(1011)4x10-
                 L = 3*256 earth-quadrants.
   Method II.—The condenser may be placed in BC, one pole
being movable along BO. Calling BP=R, and using the
same symbols as before, we find
                               CBA— Lb
                        y=E- —ix— '
                                  bA
A having the same meaning as above.
   When 7=0,
                           CR8c-L6=0,
This method really constitutes an extension of Maxwell's ; but
it does not appear to possess any advantage over the one given
above.

         Coefficients of Self-induction and Mutual Induction. 231
     Method III.—Using the differential galvanometer.
  The coil whose resistance is R is put in circuit with one coil
  of the galvanometer (G), and an additional resistance in AF =c,
                       Bp-)                      F
                      'IWIIrft      ^>x
               -i—K^^a
                                                 K'
  the other coil of the galvanometer being put into circuit with
  similar resistances. The poles of tlio condenser are moved
  along AF and AE, or one only till the galvanometer gives no
  kick.
     The steady current in each branch is
                                   2E
                              2B + R+G+cJ
  and we have in this case
T=iLia,
¥=\{a. x— u+R + Q + c— a.x* + b .y + u +li + G + c-b.y* + B.J+yi,
   The equations for the transient current at make are
            a .x— w + R + G + c— a . x + B . x +y = — hx0,
            b.y + u + U+G + c— b .y + B . x+y = 0,
             — (a—b)x0+ ^ =0;
   whence
                   *-y=RT^Fc((«+*)«-Lio)
                                  2E{^64 . C-L}
                             (R + G + c) (2B + R+G+C)"
   The condition for no deflection is
                               a4-i'.C-L = 0.
      It may happen, however, that if the galvanometer have a
   high resistance the deflections produced are always small,
   even when the condenser is not introduced : in this case we
   may improve matters by shunting each coil of the galvano
   meter. In this case G will stand for the combined resistance
   of the galvanometer and shunt ; and if S be the shunt, G0 the

232      Prof. C. Niven on Determining and Comparing
resistance of each coil,
                         1=1+1.
                         G 8 + G0 '
the total flow through both coils
and this will be a maximum when
        (R + G + e)(2B + R + F + c)/G is a minimum,
that is, when
                      G8=(R + c)(2B + R + e).
      § 4. 2b Compare two Coefficients of Self-induction.
   The following method, which is a modification of Maxwell's,
was suggested by the one which follows and by that given
in § ft.
    Method I.—Wheatstone's-bridge arrangement. The coil
L, whose resistance is 7,, is first balanced by resistances au b, d
for steady currents ; a, is then placed in series with the second
coil (N), whose resistance suppose = as, and is balanced by
putting 7j in series with yx ; *u y3) b, d being supposed to
have no appreciable self-induction. The conditions for this
are
                       «\hi = «ihi=bld.
When these conditions are accurately satisfied no steady cur
rent should pass through the galvanometer, whether P and Q
are connected by a wire or not. If the second adjustment
should throw the first slightly out, the right position of Q,
P being kept fixed, may be easily got by making the first
part of «3 and the last part of ax parts of the same wire, along
which we may have sliding contact. Kohlrausch's form of
the bridge is convenient for this purpose. It is also desirable
in most cases to interpolate a resistance into besides that of
the coil itself.
  A resistance S is then placed in PQ till no " kick " is given
on making contact. Our equations in this case are

        Coefficients of Self-induction and Mutual Induction.      233
   T=±(Lu* + '8.~x~=lt),
   F = ±{ylu* + S.x-u+yixi+G. x^y+d^ + b.y^i*
                                    + «, . z—u+Ui . x — i' + Bi8}.
  From these,
       7jj; + S . x— u + a3 .      2 + G . x—# = N. j0— #o>
        dy + b.y—z                 —Q.x—y = 0,
       7,w — aj . 2 — u — s . # — u            = — L«0=— L#0>
 whence
                    " ("i + 7i + S) = Sir +     — Li0.
    Substituting in the two former equations, and putting
 x—y=—6,
     -Gfl+(a,+7,+s. a:+7;^-(«8+-As);
                                                              s
                                        = N(i0-i-0)-Lioai+7i + s,
    (b + d+G)0+{b + d)x                      -bz          =0.
Now if we put
                      a S
            "»+            ,o =/,      «i + «2=a,   7i+7s=c.
                  *i + 7i + °
 Since
                               d              d
0=E6 (Nrf-L5ai + ^ + g) |(6G + 6+d + G ./)(B . J + d + J . Tfd).
   The condition of no flow, and therefore no deflection, on
making or breaking contact is
                       N<i-L£.-         ^-^,=0.
                                  «l+7l + C5
If b = d, and therefore *i = 7i,
                          N = L.5-^-a ;
                                  2«j + S '
and the transient currents from each coil will be a maximum
when
                    68=/G(2B + 0/(G + 2/).

234      Prof. C. Niven on Determining and Comparing
   As an example, the coils of the dynamo formerly used were
compared with the field-magnets of an old dynamo of the
Ladd pattern. The former of these we shall call A, the
latter B ; their coefficients of self-induction L, N.
   b and d were each taken = 100 ohms.
   100 ohms with A in series were balanced by a resistance,
the last portion of wbich is a wire with sliding-contact. B was
then put in series with these resistances and slide, and balanced
by a rheostat. The new adjustments generally put the other
out a little, but by moving the sliding-key the proper position
could be found when there was no current, whether the key
be up or down. By making S = 25 the two transient currents
appeared equal, though the comparison could not be made
very exactly on account of the difference of duration of the
currents.
    Thus,            L/N=              =10-88.
    I have not been able hitherto to try these methods with a
ballistic galvanometer, nor do I see at present any means of
making the two time-constants equal.
    The result obtained above agrees with an estimate of N
 made by using a condenser, as in § 3.
    Method II.—By the differential galvanometer.
                                nrmrmtW
                                  ¦R N
   The coils whose coefficients L, N are to be compared are first
 balanced by rheostats in the two coils of the galvanometer,
 and points P, Q are then found such that the needle remains
 unaltered whether PQ be open or closed ; then a resistance S
 is placed between PQ till the needle gives no deflection on
 opening circuit. When this is the case,
                       LS-N(S + 2R)=0.
 The expression for the flow is
                         (LS-N.S + 2R)E
      7_ (2B + R + R'+G)(SB + R/ + 2RR'-|-G.S + 2E)'
 When it is found desirable to use shunts for the two circuits
 of the galvanometer, G will represent the combined resistance
 of each circuit and its shunt, and the total flow in the two

      Coefficients of Self-induction and Mutual Induction.    235
circuits will be                G
§5. To Compare the Coefficient of Mutual Induction of Two
   Coils with the Coefficient of Self-induction of a Third Coil.
   One of the coils of the pair is placed in the battery- circuit,
and the other is connected to BD as a shunt to the galvano
meter. The resistance of this part will be called R, that of
                                 D
               A,                                 0
the other will be included in the battery. The self-induction
of the latter coil produces no effect on the galvanometer ; this
is likewise the case with R, because there is no permanent
 current through it. The coefficient of mutual induction will,
as usual, be denoted by M ; the other coil is placed in AD, as
in the figure.
    In dealing with this case the galvanometer, coil R, BC, CD
must be looked upon as lying in one plane.
                                                        c
W=t{c£* + a . i-i* +dy* + b . y-i* +Qt . i-u +n. u-y +Bz*}.
                 a . x—z + cx + G .x—u = — Lio,
                 b.y— z + dy + Tl.y — u= Mi0,
               -G(x-u)-B.{y-u) = -Mi0.

236       Prof. C. Niven on Determining and Comparing
If x—u=y,
        -Q(l+^jy + b + d.U-bz=-^ZQ(b + d)
              (a + c + G)y + a + c .u — oz=— Lir0.
From which we obtain, eliminating u, z and putting
        ic<>=z<}>l(b + d),
        z0=E(b + d)/(B .b + d+d.a + b),
              (« + c+G.t + aG.l+ ^j^)(B.& + d + d.a + 6)
   B, it must be remembered, includes the resistance of one of
the coils as well as that of the battery.
   R includes the resistance of the other coil of the pair, with
the additional resistance necessary to neutralize the kick of
the galvanometer. For example, the coefficient of induction
of a certain pair of coils used for experimental purposes was
compared with the coefficient of self-induction of the field-
magnets of an old dynamo of the Ladd pattern. The resist
ance of one of the coils (that put as a shunt to the galvano
meter) was 10'5 ohms, c = l'79 = rf, a=b= 1000, and an
additional resistance of 167 ohms was required for a balance ;
                           (1001-79)2
                  T ... 1000
                  L/M=                    . „,
                               x 177-5 =5'65-
      On the Use of Shunts in finding Coefficients of Mutual
                            Induction.
   Let R=R! + R'; where Ri is the resistance of the coil
proper, R' the added resistance, and let R2 be the resistance
of the second coil of the pair ; then it is easy to see that if we
shunt part of the current passing through Rj into a shunt S,
the coefficient of mutual induction will be diminished in the
ratio
                           S:R, + S.
   A precisely similar rule may be proved to hold good as the
result of shunting part of the current through Rx into a
shunt S.

      Coefficients of Self-induction and Mutual Induction.  237
   T=Mi0(i-y),
   F=^Gr.x-u+S.u—i}2 + B.1b-y.
                          + R' ,l^y+...
The equations are of the form
                  ax + Q .x— u + ... = — L.r0,
            — G . .r — m + S.m — v + R'. u —y + . . . =0,
            — S . u—v + Rj . v—y + .. . = — Mc0)
            ~'Rl.v—y—Bf.u—y+... — Mi0.
The third of these equations gives
                    (Rx + S)u = Rjy + Sit - Meg,
which reduces the second and fourth respectively to
                 -(R' + RT^)^+---=                   MR^s-^'
   These are exactly what we should have got by supposing
the resistance of R, affected in the usual way, and M dimi
nished in the ratio S : Rj + S.
 § 6. To express a Coefficient of Mutual Induction in Terms of
                    the Capacity of a Condenser.
   It is evident that a condenser and resistance placed in AD
instead of an electromagnet will balance the current of mutual
induction. The conditions for this may bo easily inferred
from what precedes ; but they may be independently deduced
by the general method.
   With the first figure of § 5, ex
cept that a condenser whose poles
are at A, P occupies the place of
the coil L, we have
                 T=M2.w^y,
                 F=$[X.x~=b3 + c~-X.x* + ...],
The first equation is
                  X(x-v) + (c-X)x+... = 0;

 238                 Mr. E. C. Rimington on
and we have an additional equation,
                             — JLi0=v/G,
whence
                             fX=cX2i;0.
Thus the subsequent investigation is the same as that of the
last section if we replace L by CXS, and the condition of
 zero-deflection is
            XXVIII. Note on Comparing Capacities.
                       By E. C. Rimington*.
 LET two condensers, of capacities K, and K2, be con
        nected to the arms A and D of a Wheatstone-bridge,
as shown in woodcut ; and
let         AC = BD,
so that there is a balance
for permanent currents.
    Let x+y, x, z, and w be
the cyclic currents at some
moment after the battery-
circuit is broken, and when
the condensers are dis
charging ; and let q1 be
the charge on Kj and gt
that on K2 at this moment.
Then we have
              (A + B + G)(x+y)-G.t-Az = Of,
              (C + D + G).z-G(>-ry)-Du; = 0 ;
also
                                           _ d<te
                           dt                  dt'
Therefore
                (A+B)*+(A+B + G)y=A^,
                            (C + D>-Gt/=D^a.
   * Communicated by the Physical Society : read June 25, 1887.
   t The self-induction of the galvanometer need not be taken into
account, as the current in it commences And ends at zero. The arms
A, B, C, and D are supposed to possess no self-induction.

                        Comparing Capacities.            239
 Hence
                               L%        A+E
                    y=
                           A + B + G, A + B
                                -G,       C+D
 or
                   Ay = A(0 + D)^-(A + B)D^, .            (1)
 where
                    A = G(A + B) + (A + B + G)(C + D).
 Integrating,
         A Cy dt = A(C + D) f°rf?1 - (A + B)D f°dgt,
            Jo                     Jk,Aj0         Jk,Dx0
 where x0 is the permanent current through A and D when
 the battery is on.
   But J y dt is the quantity which passes through the gal
 vanometer, = q.
   Therefore
               Aq = xa { KSD2(A + B) - KtA2(C + D) } .
   If xx is the permanent current in B and C,
                                      C .
                             a?0 — X\    ,
and since AC=BD, we have
                    ^L,G(B + C) + B(C + D)'
                q = #iBI                                 (2)
which may be written
                                 K2C-K,B
                    ?-ariG(B+cr~C~-
                                BD      + D +1
   If now A and D be made infinite, which will obviate the
necessity of first adjusting for a permanent balance,
                       9 = *,(K2C-K1B).
Also
                                     E
                          xx =
                                 P+B+C

240                Mr. E. C. Rimington on
where p is the internal resistance and E the E.M.F. of the
testing battery.
lf?=o,
                 Ki_C
                 K,~B'
   If a key be also put in the galvanometer-circuit, and the
battery-key be first depressed and then, after a certain interval
of time, the galvanometer-key,
we have Gott's method of com
paring capacities. This allows
the condenser longer time to
charge ; and if the galvano- Vj
meter when its* key is depressed
shows no throw, it indicates
that the potentials t>i and ra
are equal, and that therefore
            K1 = C
as before. ^s ^
   If, however, either of the condensers has an appreciable
leakage, the result will be false by this method.
   Suppose the condenser Ks has an insulation-resistance R,
that of K, being infinite. On depressing the battery-key, as
the condensers are in series, they take initial charges each
equal to Q.
      Q=(V1-Vl)K1 = (r1-VJ)Ks=(V1-Vs)^|-j.
Let an interval of time t elapse before the galvanometer-key
is depressed, and at the end of it let Qi and Q2 be the charges
                     I
on Kx and K2 respectively,   and v the value of vv Then
           Q,= Qe       where c = 2-718,
           QS=(V,-VS)
                          K1 + Ks'
and
           Q^CVi-tOK^KVj-V^-^-V^K,
                           = {(V1-Va)-|}K1,
                                  K
           Q3=(Va-V,)(l
                               K1 + K/

                        Comparing Capacities.                241
  Nov
 and
             (Y1-,)=Ql=(V1-V2)(l-^e-ij.
 Hence
              v-Y2            Kie "3
              Vl °      Kx(l            + K,
Also
             »a-V.       C
    If, therefore, v = v2, or there appears to be a balance,
                                      t
                     C _       Kte "K,H
                     B
or
                   Ki =             --r—.
                          (B + C)<fK*ll-C
 So that, unless t be made very small compared to K2R, we
 cannot compare K, and K2 unless we know R and t. In the
case of no leakage the conditions will be the same as if there
 were no key in the galvanometer circuit.
    To find the best conditions for the test :—Taking equa
 tion (2), and substituting for xi its value
                             E               D
                                         x
                        (A + D)(B + G) C + D'
                    p+ A+D+B+G
                          ED
which equals
          u          + D)—fr-rn—tt-,
                -77-5—
                p(G        + D(B + G); since AC = BD. we obtain
                            EBD»(KilC-K1B)
        q~ {p(G + D) + D(B + G) }{G(B + G) + B(G + L>)}'
If o=0, K2C=K!B.
   Suppose a fractional error p to be made in the value of C
Phil Mag. S. 5. Vol. 24. No. 148. Sept. 1887.              R

242                Mr. E. C. Rimington on
Then
                             EBD^K2C
       q~ {p(C + D)+D(B + 0)}{G(B + C)+B(C + D)}
                           Ejt>K2
         ~(P.P. B + CuG GC C + DV
           vd^c"1" c Ad^bd"1" d y
   Now the throw is proportional to q-jQ for a galvanometer
whose coil-volume is constant. Therefore the throw is pro
portional to
                            Egg,
         (P.P. B + Cy^/G (VG C + DV
         lD + C+ C AD + BD +D*/G>'
and this is to be a maximum ; which it obviously is when
         /n B + 0 C + D 1                n B(C + D)
        ^•~my=~i5-VG}                or  G= b+c '
If A and D are infinite, the higher the resistance of the gal
vanometer the better. Also, in this case,
                  _    EjoKa     _    EpKj
Here q is largest when C is largest.
   To find the conditions under which a telephone may replace
the galvanometer :—
   In equation (1) we have
              Ay=A(C + D)^-(A + B)D^.
Now, in order to employ a telephone, y must always be zero.
Therefore
                 A dqx         D dqt
               A + B It ~ C + D It'
But
                   a4b = cTd' ™AC=BD.
Hence
                      dqx _ dqj
                       dt    dt '
   Now, since there is no current in the galvanometer, its
resistance may be anything : let it be zero. Then Kx dis
charges through 2j~j~g> an(^ -^s through ^^jy

                       Comparing Capacities.                243
    Consequently
                     ft = x^ke *'a+b,
 and
                                   „ CD"
                     q3 = #0K3De ^o+d.
 Hence
                    dt -     x^A.^-^e          i+B
                                         t
                               A+B    K,^8-
and
                   dqt         C+D
Therefore
                                             t
                A + B Kl Al      C + D ~K ™
                —g— « ' A+B =           « ^C+D,
and
                          A+B_C+D
                            B _~D~'
Therefore
                      AlT7T5=JiJ
                        1 A + B_XVsO + D'
and, since AC = BD,
                           KjB = K2C,
                            Kj_C
                            K3 _ B"
   If there is self-induction in the four conductors, let Lt be
the coefficient of self-induction of A, L3 of D, L3 of B, and
L4ofC. Then
,A + B + G,J+(A + B)*+I„^ +L,^,Af =0.
                    -%+(0+D,.+L,|+L,*-D^-0.
Solving for y, we have
      A»=(0+D){Af-L,to-)_L,^!)}
                       _(A + B){D|!-L,J-L1J}.
                               R2

244                  On Comparing Capacities.
Integrating,
 Aq=      (C + D) { A f ° dqx -L, f°d{x +y) -L3 \\d{* +y) }
                 - (A + B) { D ( ° dq2-Ls ydx-U (\dx }
     = *o       (BCD2KS- B2D2Kj + L,C2- L3CD - L2BC + L4BD),
                                                     since AC=BD.
Also                          _ C
                              — 'Tl J)'
where xx is the permanent current in the branches B and C.
   ... a?=*, .^^(BCD2K2-B2D2K1 + L1C2-L3CD      C2-L3CD
                                               -L2BC + L4BD).
If 2=0,
     BD2(K2C - KaB) + 0(1^0 - L3D) + B (L4D - L2C) =0.
Hence
             K2C=K,B,       L1C = L3D,     L4D=L2C;
or
                  Ki    C           Lj    L2  D
                  K2    B           L3    L4  0
Again, since
             A=5±^{B(C + D) + G(B + C)}J
           BCDK2 - B,DK1 + L, ~ - L2 ~ - L3C + L4B
    2 = *i -            B(C + D) + G(B + C)
           KSBC - I^B2 + L, g - L2 ™ -L8 g + L4 ?
                        D +     +       D
 If A and D are now made infinite,
                       q = ¦itK.O-KjB);
 the same result that we obtain if there is no self-induction in
 the branches B and C.

                            [   245    ]
            XXIX. Note on Beams fixed at the Ends.
    By W. E. Atbton, F.R.S., and John Perry, F.R.S.*
I.    A  HORIZONTAL beam with vertical loads, fixed at
           the ends, being given, to find the bending-moment
everywhere : this is a problem the solution of which has not
hitherto been put in an elementary form. A knowledge of
the bending-moment everywhere leads, of course, to a com
plete knowledge of the strength and stiffness of the beam.
The problem is quite soluble by a method which is obvious to
any one who has worked out the theorem of three moments ;
but even for advanced students the work is tedious ; and prac
tically the answers known for the two cases—(1) when a
uniform beam is loaded merely in the middle, (2) when a
uniform beam is loaded uniformly—are regarded as roughly
applicable in all cases which occur in practice.
   If M is the bending-moment at a section, I the moment of
inertia of the section about its neutral line, and E Young's
modulus of elasticity for the material, then ^-r is the curvature
                                                 ,           M
of the beam. If 00' is a short length of the beam,                00'
is the angle which the originally parallel sections at 0 and 0'
now make with one another. Hence, if we divide the beam
into a great number of parts, and if M is taken in the middle
of each division, the moment of inertia there being I, the sum
of all such terms as gj. 00' (if 00' is one of the elementary
lengths) gives the angle between the two end sections of the
beam.
                           M
   This principle, that         00' gives the angle between the
two end sections of the beam, is, of course, well known. It
is the basis of the theory of flat spiral springs. As applicable
to beams, it may be put in the words of Professor Cotterill
('Applied Mechanics,' § 169, p. 334) :—" . . . The angle (t)
between two tangents to the deflection-curve of a beam is pro-
  ortional to the area of the curve of bending moments [had he
  een speaking of non -uniform beams, Mr. Cotterill would have
said the area of the curve whose ordinate is gj] intercepted
between two ordinates at the points considered." It is also
the basis of Prof. Fuller's beautifully simple method of dealing
     * Communicated by the Physical Society : read June 11, 1887.

246              Professors Ayrton and Perry on
with arch-ribs fixed at the ends ; and, indeed, it was when
putting Prof. Fuller's method before our students that we
discovered the following simple application of the principle to
beams. In spite of the apparent rashness of such a statement
about such a well-ventilated subject as the elasticity of beams,
we believe our method to be quite new.
    II. In the case of a horizontal beam fixed at the ends, the
angle between the end sections remains equal to nothing ; and
hence, in this case,
                           M
                         2^=0                                   (l)
Now, if the beam were merely supported at the ends, from a
given system of loading it is easy to find what the bending-
 moment everywhere would be, either by numerical calculation
 or a link-polygon method. Let us suppose the diagram of
 this bending-moment m to be known. Then the bending-
momont M of a beam fixed at the ends with the same loading,
is m — c, where c is a constant ; so that it is only necessary
from the condition (1) to determine this constant c.
     (1) is
                 Z ^—=0, or 2y=Zp
                                or   c=-^                       (2)
     The rule then is, knowing m and I at every point :—Divide
 the beam into any number, n, of equal parts ; find y at the
  middle of each part, and add all the values together : this is the
  numerator in (2).     Fin dj at the middle of each part, and
  add the values together : this is the denominator in (2); so
  that c is known. Subtract c from every value of rn, or
  diminish all the ordinates of the m diagram by the amount c,
  and we have the M diagram ; that is, the real diagram of
  bending-moment of the beam fixed at the ends, with any
   distribution of loading and any variation in cross section.
      III. If the cross section is the same everywhere, it is
  obvious that (2) becomes
                            c =I2                                 (3)

                  Beams fixed at the Ends.                  247
if the beam was divided into n parts. In fact, c is the
average value of m for the whole span. The application of
(3) to beams of uniform section, fixed at the ends with one
load in the middle or with a uniformly distributed load, is
very simple.
   IV. The condition (1) is applicable when I at every cross
section of the beam is previously settled in any arbitrary
manner. Let us give to I such a value that the beam shall
be of uniform strength everywhere, that is that
                        M
                        jy       m ft,                       O)
where y is the greatest distance of any point in the section
from the neutral line on the compression- or tension-side,
and f and ft are the constant maximum stresses in com
pression or tension to which the material is subjected in every
section.
   fe may generally be taken as equal to ft ; and if d
the depth of the beam, y may generally be taken as equa
 to \d. Hence (4) becomes
                         M
                          jd=±2f,                            (5)
 the + sign being taken when M is positive, and the — sign
 when M is negative.
    Hence (1) becomes _ 1          .
 the negative sign being taken from the ends of the beam to
 the points of inflexion, and the positive sign being taken
 between the two points of inflexion.
    Now to satisfy (6) we have merely to solve the following
                               T
         E                                            G
         A.              T                 1f         c
 problem : —In the figure E A C G E is a diagram whose ordi-
 nates represent the value of i, or the reciprocal of the depth

248               On Beams fixed at the Ends.
of the beam, which may be arbitrarily fixed ; E F G E is
a diagram of the values of m, easily drawn when the loading
is known. We are required to find two points, P and Q,
such that
                 area ET + area QO = area PU
and                             PR = QS.
When found, these points P and Q are the points of inflexion,
and PR or QS is what we called c. That is, m— PR is the
real bending-moment M at every place ; and, knowing the
bending-moment and depth d, it is easy to find I, as the con
dition of uniform strength is given in (5), or
                                  Md
                                -2/'
I being of course always positive.
   We have found it very easy to solve this problem by trial.
First find the area EC. Choose two points P', Q', whose
ordinates PR' and Q'S' are equal, and such that the area P'U'
seems to the eye nearly half the area EC. Measure the area
P'lr, subtract from |EC, divide by about 4Q'U' or 4FT or
by the mean value of these two. This will give an approxi
mation to the error in the positions of P' and Q'. With an
easy exercise of one's judgment, it will probably not be
necessary to make a second approximation.
   V. If the depth of the beam is constant, the problem of
finding the diagram of bending-moment for a beam of uniform
strength is of course solved by finding two points, P and Q,
whose distance asunder is half the length EG of the beam,
and at which the ordinates PR and QS are equal. Subtract
PR or OS from every ordinate of the m diagram E F G, and
we have the M diagram.
   It will be seen that, with any system of loading and any
variation of section in a beam, it is quite easy to get the dia
gram of bending-moment ; and also that, with any system
of loading and any variation of depth of beam, it is quite easy
to net diagrams of bending-moment and moment of inertia
for beams of uniform strength. Many other applications of
the method are obvious.

                           [   249    ]
               XXX. On Binomial Biordinals.
    By Sir James Cockle, M.A., F.R.S., F.R.A.S., $c*
65. r I THIS is the conclusion of a set of papers with various
      _L titles, but the articles of which are numbered conse
cutively. The latest paper of the set appeared in the number
for May 1882 (vol. xiii. p. 357).
   66. The biordinal of art. 62 is, by means of
                             e-o          u
               v = xa(l+xi) "» ~u = x*X
transformed into
where
              V = U2-4U, V,=V+P-J».
   67. Hence, by the double substitution
                     x2=t3    and t~lv—y,
we obtain
                          y" + 3sy=0,                     (19)
where the grave accents denote differentiations with respect
to t, and (if T= 1 +<3),
               •    4? l\9     1 )e+ t         T y
   68. Operating on (19) with ^ + \,we get (compare art. 16)
            y^ + 3\yx + 3syy + 3[s*+3\s)y = 0.    . .  .  (20)
   69. Take a new variable f connected with y by
 and giving rise to the terordinal
                   r*+8pr+3yr+»f=o                        (21)
   70. Then, by equating the criticoids of (20) and (21), we
 get
          r = 3(«v + 2Xs +pq) + 2(\3 -/) + j^-X*.
   71. When (21) is binomial, then p, q, and r may be taken
                 * Communicated by the Author.

250                    Sir James Cockle on
of the respective forms
      p=j + 2(o> + 3) ^,       q=^+~Y,         r= ~£T + T
wherein a2) co, and the m's are constants.
   72. In general we should have
              q = m^-2 + wi/T- 1 + n2t4T" 2,
              r = w3rs + m4T- 1 + w3t3T-a + n/T"3 ;
but when (21) is binomial the n's vanish.
   73. Now if a> and A be determined from
       (. + *)(.+8) = ^        A^^. + l+jJ^},
all the n's will vanish if
                          .    A    wfs
wherein a2 is arbitrary.
   74. Let 6= — 2(w + 3) ; then p is obtained from \ by the
substitution of a2 for A, and of 6 for u>.
   75. Putting — ^6=V, and recurring to arts. 18 and 32, it
will be seen that it is in fact the system (18) of art. 64 which
is now under discussion.
    76. Introducing a quantity K, denned by
we get
             mx=a2{a2—\) —A(A — 1) + g K,
             m,= |2 V2 + 2o»(A + 1) + 4 (o + 3) (a2 + 1),
             m3 = a23 — oa22 + 2a2 + K fa — 2)
                               + A(2A2-3a2A + 3a2 + 2K-2),
                   32       32
              m4=pVa+ ^V2A— 2Ka> + Satfnz — 'ddm.!
                                      + 6a220-6A2a. + 6(<» + 2).
    77. Multiplying the binomial terordinal into Tt3, substitu
ting for T and putting D = t ^, we get
    (1+<3)D(D-1) (D-2)?+3{a2+(a2-0<s}D(D-l)?
             + 3^+ (m1 + m2)<3}Df+ {m3 + (m3 + ro4)<3}£=0.

                      Binomial Biordinals.                25 1
   78. If we suppose this equation to be put under the form
we shall have        W*+*W>X-0,
  /(D) = D3 + 3(a2-l)D2 + {3(m1-a3) + 2[D + m,
           = (D + a2-l)3-{3(A-i)2+ Jr}(D + «2-l)
                + (2A-l){(A-^-gp}.
   79. Put D + a,-l = A and A-£ =B, then
           /(D) = A3-(3B* + g P) A + 2B (b« - |*p).
   80. In other words,
           /(D) = (A + 2B)(A-B + |I)(A-B-|I).
   81. The calculation of F(D) was still more troublesome
than that of /(D), and my original result was in defect by a
unit. But the masterly hand which corrected the defect
pointed out a shorter process of calculation, viz. that to be
given in arts. 88, 89.
   82. If we put
              D + a2 + 2o> + 5 = V, A— co — i=G,
we shall at last find
         F(D)= (V + 2G) (v-G + 2 J) (V -G-| J).
   83. But a2 is arbitrary; and if Oj=l, then V becomes
D + 2w + 6, and V+2G becomes V + 2A + 5, or V + 2B + 6,
while V — Gf becomes D — B + 3a> + 6. Hence, writing the
terordinal in the form
we have             AD)r+F<D-W-0,
F(D-3)=(D + 2B + 3) (D-B + 3w + 3 + f J) (D-B + 3« + 3-
   84. Moreover, turning to arts. 80, 82, 83, we see that if
                      /(D) = <KD, B,.I),
then          F(D-3) = <KD + 2«> + 3, B-o), J),
and      0(D, B, I)M-<£(D + 2a> + 3, B-«, J)<3f=0.
   85. This result may be further simplified by taking a new
variable Z, given by Z = t~B%; for we thus obtain
   <f>(D + B, B, I)Z + <KD + B + 2o> + 3, B-o>, J)*3Z=0,
which (see arts. 80, 82-4) is equivalent to
                   (D + 3B)(D + |I)(D-|I)Z
    + (D + 3B + 3)(D + 3o) + 3 + |J)(D + 3a, + 3-|J)<3Z=0.

    252                    On Binomial Biordinals.
        86. Since
                      co3 + 5to + 6 = ^ V = ^ U2 - i U,
    therefore
                   a> = £U — 3,     or else a>— — ^U — 2 ;
    Also, by art. 79,
                      B=A-*=i{«+1|=^}.
       87. Again, by art. 69,
       y=J(P-Wl,= (gee arts< ?1 and 73) <a2-AT(»,+2)?= (see
             art. 85) <«,-a+bT(w+2)Z= (see arts_ 7Q> 86^
             <a,-iT(u+a)2; = ^T<u+2)Z, when, as in art. 83, a2=l.
       88. The shorter process (see art. 81) is this. By art. 78,
            /(D)=D3 + 3(a2-l)Ds+{3(m1-a2)+2^D + m3
                                   = (D + a2-l)3-a(D + as-l) +/S
    suppose. Also (see art. 77),
F(D) = D3 + 3(a2 - 6 - 1)D2 + { 3(nh + m2 -a2 + 6) + 2} D + m, + m,
                             = (D+a2-l-0)3-7(D + a2-l-0) + H
   suppose. Then
                F(D) -/(D) = -30D2 + 3(m, + 0)D + nh
   «-30(D + a2-l)2+(36>2-7 + «)(D + a2-l)+H-;S + 70-^.
       89. Hence, accents now meaning derived functions,
      3m, =/' (0) + 3a2 - 2 = 3 (a2 - 1 )2 + 3a2-« - 2,
      3m2=F'(0)-/'(0)-36'=-6a16' + 3(? + 3^-7+a.. ., (22)
         „i4= F(0) -f{0) = - 30^ - 1)2 + a2(3^ -7 + a)
                                      -03-302 + y-a + H-/S + 70,
 m4 + 30m1-3asm2 = 6a2!10-0(0+ l)(0 + 2) + (7~«)(0 + 1) + H-£. (23).
       90. By moans of (22) and (23) 7 and H can bo found.
    The results, after all reductions, are
               7 = 3G2 + tV2 and H = 2G(G2-i!VJ2))
   and the F(D) of art. 82 follows.
       91. When I wrote art. 64 I was not aware of the turn
    which the discussion would take. The errata indicated at the
   beginning of vol. ix. of this Series should not be overlooked.
      12 St. Stephen's Road, Bayswater, W.,
                  June 3, 1887.

                               [   253    ]
XXXI. The Effect of Change of Temperature in Twisting or
    Unttoisting Wires which have suffered Permanent Torsion.
    By Herbert Tomlinson, B.A."
IN a paper recently communicated to the Physical Societyt,
       Mr. R. H. M. Bosanquet has drawn attention to the
remarkable behaviour of a very fine hard-drawn platinum
wire, which twisted or untwisted very appreciably when sub
jected to small variations of temperature. As some experi
ments made by myself nearly eight years ago, but of which
the results have not been as yet published, seem to bear on
the interesting phenomenon in question, I now venture to
bring them forward. I had previously been investigating
the effects of permanent extension and compression on the
longitudinal elasticity of wires in the following manner:—
A wire of from 60 to 90 centimetres in length and 1 milli
metre in diameter was suspended vertically, with its upper
extremity clamped to a rigid support, and its lower one attached
 to a little brass block provided with a hook at the bottom, to
 which weights could be attached. Permanent torsion was im
 parted to the wire, which was afterwards subjected to various
 amounts of longitudinal stress. The permanent twisting of
 the wire in the direction of a right-handed screw causes the
 portion A B C D (fig. 1) to be permanently extended along the
 diagonal A C and compressed along the diagonal B D (fig. 2).
                        Fig.].                Fig. 2.
     If now the wire be loaded, the stress will produce tempo
  rary twist or untwist according as the elasticity is greater or
  less in the direction B D than in the direction AC. A full
  account of these experiments will be found in the ' Philoso
  phical Transactions 'J, so that it will suffice to state here that
  all the wires examined showed temporary twist or untwist to
  be the result of loading. The amount of twist or untwist
     * Communicated by the Physical Society : read June 25, 1887.
     t Phil. Mag. vol xxiv. No. 147, August 1887, p. ICO.
     X Part I. 1883 : "The Influence of Stress and Strain on the Physical
 Properties of Matter."

254       Mr. H. Tomlinson on the Effect of Change of
produced by loading was comparatively small, and was mea
sured by the usual mirror lamp-and-scale arrangement, the
mirror being attached to the brass block at the end of the
wire.
   It then occurred to me that a similar arrangement might
be used for testing the effect of permanent extension and
compression on the thermal expansibility of a metal. A wire
was suspended in the axis of an air-chamber, consisting of two
concentric brass cylinders enclosing an annular space between
them 6 millim. thick. The length of the air-chamber was
120 centim. and its outer diameter 10 centim. When the
required amount of permanent torsion had been imparted to
the wire, steam from a boiler was admitted into the annular
space through a tube soldered into it near its lower extremity,
and passed out through a similar tube near the top, where it
was condensed in a vessel of cold water. After a period
ranging from \ hour to 2 hours, when the permanent un
twisting which invariably accompanied the heating had ceased
to become sensibly greater, the position of the light on the
scale was noted and the action of the steam stopped. The
annular space was now filled with cold water, and in about
ten minutes afterwards the position of the light on the scale
was again noted. The difference between the two readings
was a measure of the amount of temporary twist or untwist
produced by the change of temperature, the last being, on the
average, 85° C. In several cases the heating and cooling
were repeated with little or no variation in the amount of
temporary twist or untwist. The length of each wire was
nearly 120 centimetres and the diameter 1 millimetre.
   The results of the experiments will be found in the following
Table, in which are given the amount of temporary twist or
untwist in scale-divisions, the amount of permanent untwist,
and the load hanging on the wire during the experiment.
The wires were all well annealed before being permanently
twisted.
   We may gather from the Table the following particulars:—
   (1) Rise of temperature from 15° C. to 100° C. produces
in permanently twisted iron, aluminium, and silver temporary
untwist, showing for these metals less thermal expansibility
in the direction of permanent extension than in the direction
of permanent compression. With copper and platinum, on
the contrary, rise of temperature produces temporary twist.
   (2) The amount of temporary twist or untwist is in all cases
small compared with the amount of permanent untwist pro
duced by rise of temperature. It is also absolutely very small*.
* 100 scale-divisions ODly represent torsion through an angle of 2° 20'.

           Temperature in Twisting or Untwisting Wires.                   255
     (3) A few turns of permanent torsion suffice to produce
 the maximum alteration of thermal expansibility which can be
 effected by this means.
   Metal ...         Copper.            Iron.   Aluminium Silver.    Platinum.
Load on the
  wire, in              '                 1          i        1            1
   kilos.    }
Number of    Permanent    Temporary
 complete      untwist     effect of
                           heating.         T.   p.     T.       T.
  turns of
permanent
              produced
             by heating.  + signifies P.                   P.         P.      T.
  torsion.        P.      temporary
                           twist, T.
     10                               24 3-5- 800 74- 298 25-         ...    4+
     20                      31 +                      71-
     30                                    60-
     40                                                         3-0-
     50          555         36+                       74-             63 10+
    100          690         41 +          5-0-                 30-  138
    150                                                78-           273 12-5+
    200          861                  58         ...                  ... 13-0+'
      Small variations of the load hanging on the wire produced
  no sensible effect on the temporary twist or untwist following
   on rise of temperature. The case, however, was different
   when large loads were employed. With platinum, for ex
  ample, by increasing the load from 1 to 7 kilos, the temporary
   twist produced by rise of temperature was increased threefold.
   With copper also there was a similar effect produced by largely
   increasing the load. On the contrary, it would seem that
   with these metals, in which untwist is produced by rise of
   temperature, increase of load diminishes the untwist ; and if
   the load be sufficiently large, the wire begins to be twisted
   temporarily by rise of temperature. This was found to be the
   case with annealed iron. The wire was twisted permanently
   with gradually increasing amounts of load on it, and after
   each twisting was slightly heated by running a burner up
   and down it. As before, with moderate loads there was tem
   porary untwist on heating ; when the load reached 10 kilos,
   there was neither temporary twist nor untwist ; and finally,
   when the load was 16 kilos., there was very appreciable tem
   porary twist.
      Annealed piano-steel behaved like annealed iron ; but with

256     Mr. H. Tomlinson on raising Iron under Temporary
unannealed piano-steel rise of temperature caused a very ap-
[ireciable temporary twist, instead of untwist, even with small
 oads on.
   A remarkable feature about all these experiments was the
great difference with different metals in the facility with which
the effect of permanent torsion in one direction could be re
versed by permanent torsion in the opposite direction. With
copper, for example, one complete revolution in the opposite
direction was sufficient to reverse the effect of 200 complete
turns of permanent torsion, whilst with iron the difficulty of
reversing the effect of previous torsion was considerable.
   I am inclined to believe that the phenomenon observed
by Mr. Bosanquet is to be, at any rate partly, attributed
to unequal expansion in different directions. I have always
found in wires which have been hard-drawn a certain amount,
and sometimes a considerable amount of permanent torsion :
this, we have seen, will cause temporary twist or untwist
to be produced by rise of temperature. The amount of twist
or untwist in any case, however, observed by myself was very
much less than that observed by Mr. Bosanquet; and it would
be of interest to ascertain how far the comparatively very
large variation of torsion with small rise of temperature which
occurred with the platinum wire used by him, is to be attri
buted to the comparatively great longitudinal stress on the
wire*.
XXXII. Remarkable Effect on raising Iron when under Tem
   porary Stress or Permanent Strain to a Bright-red Heat.
   By Herbert Tomlinson, B.A.]
IT has been shown in the preceding paper that an annealed
      iron wire which has been permanently twisted is tempo
rarily untwisted when the temperature is raised to 100° C, pro
vided there is not too great a load on the end of the wire ; but
that if the load on the end of the wire is sufficiently great, a
temporary twist follows on the rise of temperature. Fresh
experiments were therefore entered on with the view of ascer
taining whether, with a small load on the end of the wire, the
temporary untwist produced by rise of temperature would be
changed to twist when the temperature exceeded a certain
limit. A few preliminary trials were made by merely heating
a portion of the permanently twisted wire with a burner ; and
it was found that when the wire reached a bright red heat a
most remarkable and sudden change occurred, the wire sharply
    * See above, the efiect of increasing the load on the wire.
    f Communicated by the Physical Society : read June 25, 1887.

        Stress or Permanent Strain to a Bright-red Heat.              257
hoisting in the same direction as that in which it had pre
viously suffered permanent torsion. When the burner was
removed and the wire was cooled to a temperature which
seemed slightly lower than that at which the phenomenon
occurred in tho first instance, it as suddenly untwisted ; and
when it had again attained the temperature of the room, there
remained a decided permanent twist in addition to that which
had been originally imparted*. This additional permanent
twist is rendered more remarkable by the fact that rise of tem
perature beyond a dull red, but not extending to a bright
red, is attended with a considerable permanent untwist. The
phenomenon is evidently closely associated with one discovered
by Mr. Gore so far back as 1869, and described in the ' Pro
ceedings of the Royal Society ' for that year. Mr. Gore's
experiments were conducted in the following manner :—A
thin iron wire, fixed at one end to a binding-screw, is attached
at the other to an index which multiplies any motion of the
wire ; the wire is stretched horizontally by a feeble spring,
 and is heated by an electric current or by a row of gas-jets.
 According to Mr. Gore, no anomalous action is observed on
 heating the wire to bright incandescence ; but when cooling
 begins, the index moves back until a moderate red heat is
 attained, when suddenly the pointer gives a jerk, indicating
 a momentary elongation of the wire during the progress of its
 contraction. In 1873 Professor Barrett extended Mr. Gore's
 researches ; and in a paper full of interest \, entitled " Certain
 remarkable Molecular Changes occurring in Iron Wire at a
 low red Heat," showed that, under suitable conditions, the
 sudden change could be observed not only on cooling, but on
 heating. It is apparent, from the description given above,
 that the phenomenon observed by Mr. Gore resembles the one
 observed by myself, in that there is a sudden change in the
 iron when it has been raised to a bright red and afterwards
 cooled to a certain temperature. But in Mr. Gore's experi
 ment the wire was under temporary stress, whilst in mine it
 was permanently strained ; and whereas in the one case, on
 cooling below a certain temperature, there was a sudden yield
 ing to the stress, in tho other there was a sudden diminution
 of permanent strain. A careful consideration of the results
 of my own experiments, and of those of Mr. Gore and Pro
 fessor Barrett, satisfied me that in this, as in many other
 instances, temporary stress and permanent strain act in oppo-
    • This ia not so if the wire be heated rather slowly ; but, on the con
 trary, in this case there is a very decided permanent untwist (see experi
 ment V.).
    t Phil. Mag. ser. 4, vol. xlvi. p. 472.
 Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 24. No. 148. Sept. 1887-                     S

258     Mr. H. Tomlinson on raising Iron under Temporary
site directions as regards their effects on the physical properties
of matter. I was moreover led to test, not only the effects of
torsional stress and strain, but also those of other mechanical
stresses and strains, for the most part with arrangements
which will now be described.
                              Fig. 1.
   Hie wire was suspended vertically in the axis of a glass
tube, A (fig. 1) , being clamped at its upper extremity into a

       Stress or Permanent Strain to a Bright-red Ileai.           259
brass block, B, resting on a wooden support fitting on to the
top of the tube, and provided with a terminal for making
connexion with one pole of a battery of thirty Grove's cells,
arranged ten in series and three in parallel arc. The current
from the battery passed through a set of resistance-coils
arranged so that the resistance could be altered by small
amounts at a time ; the current was also conducted through
an amperemeter and through the wire, passing in or out of
the latter through the intermediation of a mercury-cup, C.
The lower extremity of the wire was clamped into a second
brass block, 0, to which was secured a mirror, M, reflecting
the light of a lamp on to a scale placed at a distance of one
metre. This block was provided with a circular aperture, Q,
into which, if necessary, a bar could be introduced, and at its
lower extremity terminated in a brass cylinder, D, having a
piece of rather stout brass wire, K, projecting from its centre,
vertically downwards, and dipping into the mercury-cup 0.
When it was required to subject the wire to torsional stress,
two fine silk threads were wrapped in opposite directions round
D, and passed, as in the figure, over two fixed pulleys, P, to
two small cardboard scale-pans, S, on which weights could be
placed. When the wire was not required to be torsionally
stressed the fine silk threads and the pulleys were dispensed
with.
    Experiment I.—A piece of very soft and carefully annealed
iron wire*, 30 centim. long and 1 millim. in diameter, was
subjected to torsional stress in the manner described above.
The pans S each weighed 10 grms., and in each of them was
placed a load of 20 grms., so that the torsional couple
amounted to 30 x 1*6 in gramme-centimetre-units f. A cur
rent of gradually increased amount was passed through the
wire, and when the temperature approached a bright rod the
wire began to twist rapidly and permanently under the influ
ence of the stress %. Tho current was shortly afterwards
stopped ; and when a temperature between bright red and
dull red had been reached the wire began suddenly to twist
further, the amount of the sudden twist being about 90 degrees.
When the wire had cooled down to the temperature of the
room there was left a considerable permanent twist. In this
experiment there was no perceptible temporary untwist on
heating, but merely a slight check in the rate at which the
wire was permanently twisting as soon as the critical tempe-
  * This wire was specially prepared for me by Messrs. Johnson and
Nephew, and is capable of suffering a permanent elongation of 25 per
cent, before breaking.
   t The diameter of D was 1*6 centimetre.
   X The first appearance, however, of sensible permanent twist occurred
rather suddenly at a dull red heat.
                                    S2

260     Mr. H. Tomlinson on raising Iron under Temporary
rature was reached. Other experiments were made with
smaller and smaller torsional stresses nntil only the cardboard
scale-pans were left to produce torsion : even here, however,
it was impossible to get any sign of temporary untwist on
heating. This mode of producing torsion was accordingly
abandoned, and the stress was applied in the manner described
in Experiment II.
    Experiment II.—A cork was fitted into the central aperture
of the block 0, and through the centre of the cork was passed
a knitting-needle about 25 centim. in length and 1£ millim.
in diameter, which was magnetized rather feebly by rubbing
it with a small bar-magnet. The knitting-needle, when first
placed in position, was nearly in the magnetic meridian, but
afterwards the block B was turned until the needle eventually
 was nearly at right angles to the plane of the magnetic meri
 dian, so that the wire might be under a feeble torsional stress
 due to the action of the earth's horizontal magnetic force on
 the needle. Immediately the wire reached a bright red tem
 perature there was a very perceptible sudden temporary
untwist, and on cooling a sudden temporary twist at nearly
 the same temperature *. This experiment was repeated with
another piece of the same iron wire ; but now the needle,
instead of being twisted through 90 degrees from the north
and south position, in which it originally lay when there was
no torsion on the wire, was only twisted through about 10
degrees. Even the extremely feeble torsional stress now
 acting on the wire was not only sufficient to produce the phe
 nomenon, but -also a very decided permanent twist. The
permanent twisting began directly the wire, on being heated,
reached a dull red heat, and continued with increasing ra
pidity until the temporary untwist occurred at a bright red
heat.
    Experiment III.—The temperature at which, on cooling,
 the sudden change took place was evidently very much higher
 than that at which it occurred with the specimens of iron nsed
 by Mr. Gore and Professor Barrett; and this 1 felt inclined to
 attribute to the comparative softness of the iron used by mv-
 self. I accordingly tried several other specimens of iron and
 steel, both in the annealed and in the unannealed condition.
 With some of these the phenomenon did not occur on cooling
 until a dull red, or even at a still lower temperature ; but it
 was found essential to its production that the iron should
 Iiave been previously raised to the temperature of bright incan-
   * These effects can easily be shown by merely heating a small portion
   the wire with a Bunsen-burner.

        Stress or Permanent Strain to a Bright-red Heat.            261
descence*. On heating, the untwisting always showed itself
at the temperature of bright red.
    In consequence of the sudden change on cooling not occur
ring till a dull red heat had been reached in his experiments,
Professor Barrett connected the phenomenon in question with
another of equal interest. It is well known that, at a tempe
rature of dull red, iron begins very rapidly to lose its magnetic
properties ; and, according to Professor Barrett, the two phe
nomena occur simultaneously. It is no doubt the case that,
on cooling, the sudden jerk occurs simultaneously with the
sudden regaining of magnetic properties in some specimensf of
iron or steel ; but it by no means follows that we have not
two very distinct critical temperatures—one at or about a
dull red, at which iron loses or regains its magnetic pro
perties according as the wire is being heated or cooled;
and another at a much higher temperature, namely near a
bright red, at which sudden changes, certainly not less pro
found, occur. This is shown in the next experiment, which at
the same time illustrates the fact already mentioned, that the
effect of permanent strain is opposite to that of temporary
stress.
    Experiment IV.—The glass tube (fig. 1) was placed inside
a magnetizing solenoid %, consisting of a single layer of cotton-
covered copper wire g1,, inch diameter, and connected through
a key with a battery of two Grove's cells. Surrounding the
solenoid and concentric with it is a secondary coil, consisting
of 840 turns of cotton-covered copper wire partly                  inch
diameter and partly A inch dinmeter. This coil has a re
sistance of about 1 ohm, and is connected through a key
with a very delicate Thomson's reflecting-galvanometer of
about 7 ohms' resistance. A piece of the same soft iron wire
already mentioned was subjected to thirty complete revolu
tions of permanent torsion, and was finally released from all
torsional stress. When the wire, on heating, reached the
temperature of dull red, a momentary deflection of the needle
of the Thomson's galvanometer took place, indicating a sudden
loss of magnetic permeability ; and as soon as a bright red
heat had been attained it, as in the preliminary observations,
twisted sharply and suddenly. The battery which was em
ployed to heat the wire had its circuit now broken, and the
   * This fact, which was also noticed by Mr. Gore and Prof. Barrett, is
significant.
   t The reason of this will be found in the remarks on the recalescence
of iron.
   X Only the ends of this solenoid can be seen in the figure, the rest
being enveloped by the secondary coil.

 262      Mr. H. Tomlinson on raising Iron under Temporary
 wire was allowed to cool : first ensued a sudden momentary
 unhoist of the wire, whilst a few seconds afterwards a kick of the
 galvanometer-needle in the opposite direction to that which
 had occurred on heating, indicated that the iron had suddenly
 regained its magnetic properties. This experiment was re
 peated several times ; and though the sudden jerk on heating
 and cooling became less and less in intensity, and probably
 would eventually have vanished, it did not do so after six
 heatings and coolings*.
    Experiment V.—The last experiment had shown the great
 persistency of the permanent torsional strain, even after the
 wire had been several times heated to a white heat. A fresh
 series of trials was made with iron which had suffered more
 or less permanent torsion, for the purpose of examining this
 persistency more closely. In these trials it was attempted
 to reanneal the wire after the permanent torsion had been
 imparted, by passing the flame of a Bunsen-burner very slowly
 up and down it so as to heat all parts in turn to a white heat,
 the wire being in some cases entirely free from any load on it,
 and in others having merely the slight load due to the block
 and its appendages. In no case could the sudden jerk at a
 bright red heat be got rid of entirely; though the same wire,
 when tested previously to imparting permanent torsion, had
 shown no trace whatever of the phenomenon. It is evident
 that iron cannot be satisfactorily annealed by the process
 mentioned above t.
    These trials also brought out distinctly the fact that at a
dull red heat the iron begins to permanently untwist rapidly,
so that a considerable amount of the permanent twist origi
nally imparted can bo got rid of by maintaining the tempera
ture for some time between bright red and dull red. Directly,
however, the higher critical temperature is reached there is a
sudden twist, which in the case of very soft iron is partly
temporary and partly permanent, and in the case of steel wire
which is unannealed, or hard iron wire, is principally per
manent!.
    Experiment VI.—A piece of the well-annealed iron wire,
about 16 inches long, was clamped at one end and sustained in
a horizontal position, save in so far as it was bent by its own
   * I had the pleasure of repeating the experiment before the Physical
Society.
   t I write this because some observers seem to think that iron can be
satisfactorily annealed in this way. In this. I believe, they are mistaken ;
the iron should be maintained at a high temperature for a considerable
period, and afterwards be allowed to cool very slowly.
   % With some unannealed specimens I found it difficult to detect any
trace whatever of untwisting temporarily when the iron cooled below the
critical temperature.

       Stress or Permanent Strain to a Bright-red Heat.             263
weight. The wire was heated by a burner about three inches
from the clamp. When the temperature reached a bright red,
the wire began to bend permanently very rapidly by its own
weight ; and when the burner was removed and the wire
cooled, a sudden further bending took place at a temperature a
little below bright red ; and when cooled to the temperature
of the room, the wire remained permanently bent. Here the
attempt to unbend, which the wire no doubt made at the cri
tical temperature when it was heated, was masked by the
permanent bending. Another piece was therefore taken and
heated at a point further away from the clamp, so that the
bending-stress should not be so great. With care it was
found possible to detect that the wire suddenly straightened
itself when the critical temperature was reached on heating.
   Similar trials were made with other specimens of iron and
steel not so well annealed ; and with these, when cooling, the
sudden bending took place at a temperature lower than that
at which it occurred with the very soft iron. With one spe
cimen of wire, 1^ millim. thick, it occurred at a temperature
apparently below that of visible red * ; but, as Professor Bar
rett justly remarks, the internal temperature of the thicker
wires is no doubt masked by the cooling of the surface,
whereas in thin wires the cooling throughout is extremely
rapid. 1 found also that a piece of this specimen of iron ap
peared to lose its magnetic properties at a temperature below
visible red, whereas with the thinner wires the apparent tempe
rature at which this took place was somewhere about a dull red.
    The very small amount of bending- stress which is required
to bring out the phenomenon makes it a little difficult to de
tect with certainty the opposite effect of bending-srram ; but
it may be managed after a few trials in the following manner:—
   Experiment VII.—A piece of the very soft iron wire was
bent, as in fig. 2, with the portions A C, A B
in a vertical position ; the end G was secured               Fig- 2.
to a clamp, and the bend A heated by a burner.
If A B has been so arranged that its centre of
mass is very nearly vertically above the part
heated, there will be little bending-stress. In
this experiment, on heating the bend A to a
bright red, the end B jerked suddenly towards
C, and when the burner was removed almost
immediately jerked back again. If A B is
arranged so that there is a little more bending-            ,       .
stress, it is curious to notice the struggle which          V
sometimes ensues at a bright red heat as to                    A
   * Prof. Barrett also remarks that the phenomenon occurs on cooling at
an apparently lower temperature with thick wires than thin ones.

264      Mr. H. Tomlinson on raising Iron under Temporary
which way the end B shall be jerked*. This experiment
was repeated with other specimens of iron and steel and with
similar results, except that on cooling, as with the torsional
stress and strain, the phenomenon occurred at a lower tempe
rature than with the very soft iron wire.
    The question now arises, Is there any sudden molecular
change at a bright red heat even where there is no stress or
strain affecting the wire? Professor Barrett brings forward
evidence in support of the view that there is, which I am
afraid is not conclusive. He says :—" If, however, this
molecular change be entirely due to alteration in cohesion,
then the removal of the spring ought to cause the anomalous
behaviour to disappear. But it does not. Without the
spring, an iron wire can be seen by the naked eye to undergo
a momentary contraction during heating, and a momentary
and more palpable elongation during cooling f. Fixing one
end of the wire, and bending the other extremity at right
angles so that it may dip into a trough of mercury, and thus
preserve contact with the battery, both actions can be seen."
I have little doubt myself that the effects observed here were
really due to the stress produced by the weight of the icire
itself. So far as my own experiments go, I have not been
able to detect any sudden change in the wire when sufficient
care is taken to prevent the weight of the wire itself from
producing an eft'ectj. Nevertheless I am inclined to believe,
with Professor Barrett, that a sudden molecular change does
occur at the critical temperature even when the wire is quite
free from any mechanical stress or strain, though as yet expe
rimental evidence is wanting to furnish sufficient evidence of
such a change.
                        The Recalescence of Iron.
    This curious phenomenon was, I believe, first discovered by
 Professor Barrett, and mention is made of it in his paper,
 already alluded to, in the following words :—" On September
 12th I was examining the condition of the wire in a darkened
 room, when a new and unexpected change revealed itself.
 During the cooling of the wire it was found that just as it
 reached a very dull red heat, a sudden accession of tempera
 ture occurred, so that it glowed once more with a bright red
    * That is, as to whether the effect of stress or that of strain shall
predominate.
    + The effect on cooling could always be got in my own experiments
 also with greater distinctness than the effect on heating.—H. T.
    \ It is difficult to realize, without actually putting the matter to the
 test of experin ent, what a very small amount of stress or strain suffices to
 bring out the phenomenon.

       Stress or Permanent Strain to a Bright-red Heat.        265
heat. Illuminating the index and scale of the apparatus,
which was watched by an assistant, it was at once found that
the reheating of the wire occurred simultaneously with the mo
mentary elongation.." Professor Barrett also ascertained that,
in order to bring out the phenomenon, it was necessary pre
viously to heat the wire to a white heat ; and, further, that
wherever the momentary expansion of the wire is feeble or absent,
there likewise this recalescence is also feeble or absent.
   In my own mind I have little doubt that this beautiful
phenomenon may be accounted for in the following manner:—
When the iron has been heated above a bright red and is then
cooling, it reaches the critical temperature at which there is a
tendency for the sudden change to take place in the perma
nently strained or temporarily stressed wire : the change does
not, however, actually take place at this temperature in con
sequence of the so-called coercitive force of the iron. When
the iron is very soft and well annealed, the temperature at
which the jerk takes place is comparatively near the tempera
ture at which the jerk occurred on heating. But when the
iron is hard-drawn or only imperfectly annealed, there may be
a considerable difference in the two temperatures. Suppose,
then, that the iron has cooled to the temperature at which its
magnetic properties are suddenly restored. At this tempera
ture a commotion more or less profound takes place among
the molecules ; and this is sufficient to give them a start
towards those positions which they have all along, after the
higher critical temperature was passed, been trying to assume.
When once started the molecular motion continues, the energy
of position is rapidly converted into the energy of motion,
and this again into the energy of heat, so that the wire onco
more glows. It by no means follows that the phenomenon
of recalescence occurs with every specimen of iron at the
critical temperature at which iron loses its magnetic proper
ties ; indeed I have noticed sometimes more than one evident
sudden accession of heat* during the same cooling. More
over, in the case of the very soft iron wire, with which the
sudden jerk occurred at a much higher temperature on cool
ing than with the harder specimens, there was no perceptible
trace of the phenomenon at a dull red heat. Probably there
was a sudden check of the rate of cooling when the jerk oc
curred, though reglowing at this point was not noticed. I
did not, however, pay much attention to the matter.
   The view just advanced respecting the phenomenon of
recalescence is, I think, justified by the following considera
tions :—
  * Sometimes there is merely a sudden check in the rate of cooling
without any sensible recalescence.

266      Mr. H. Tomlinson on raising Iron under Temporary
    (1) The phenomenon is entirely absent in very well-
annealed iron wire which has not, after annealing, suffered
strain, nor is at the time under stress.
    (2) It is not sensible unless the temperature of the wire
has been previously raised to a bright red *.
    (3) It becomes more and more sensible as the temperature
at which the sudden jerk occurs in the wire becomes lower
and lower, and is most pronounced in those wires in which
the jerk does not take place until the wire suddenly loses its
magnetic properties.
    (4) It is not sensible unless there is a sudden jerk ; the
jerk and recalescence occur at the same instant.
    Gore's phenomenon and the phenomenon of recalescence
do not occur in pure, or nearly pure, specimens of nickel or
cobalt ; though, as is well known, nickel loses its magnetic
properties at a much lower temperature than iron, namely
from about 350° C. to 400° C. A most careful examination
of three different specimens of nickel wire, procured from
Messrs. Johnson and Matthey, was madef. Unfortunately
pure nickel wire cannot be drawn ; but two out of the three
specimens showed no trace whatever of the phenomena. The
third specimen showed very obvious signs of both phenomena;
but when tested was found, like iron, to lose its magnetic
properties at a dull red heat instead of at the lower tempera
ture at which pure nickel loses its magnetic properties, and
therefore probably contained rather a large quantity of iron.
 The other two specimens lost their magnetic properties at a
temperature of about 400° C. Only one specimen of cobalt
was examined. Cobalt has not been drawn into wire as yet,
though both Messrs. Johnson and Matthey, and Mr. W.
Wiggin, jun., have kindly attempted to do so forme. Mr.
 Wiggin was, however, so good as to have rolled for me. a spe
 cimen of cobalt, which is very nearly pure, in a strip about
   millim. thick, 12 millim. broad, and 60 centim. long. This
strip was tested with a Bunsen-burner and with a large
blowpipe, and showed no trace at any temperature of either
phenomenon when subjected to bending-stresses of various
amounts. Unlike nickel and iron, cobalt does not lose its
magnetic properties at any temperature at which it has been
tested.
  * This is not the case as regards the phenomenon of iron suddenly
losing its magnetic properties at a dull red heat.
   t Professor Barrett had previously shown the phenomenon to be absent
in nickel.

       Stress or Permanent Strain to a Bright-red Heat.              267
           The Working of Iron at High Temperatures.
   There can be little doubt that such experiments as these are
important from a technical point of view. It is known, Iain
not aware whether generally or not, that it is dangerous to
work iron within certain ranges of temperature. This one
can easily understand from what has gone before ; for it is
manifest that if the temperature of a mass of iron is not the
same throughout, and if the mean temperature of the mass be
near the higher of the two critical temperatures, or if it is
cooling from a bright red heat near either of the two critical
temperatures, the effect of a blow or of any stress will be very
different on different parts of the mass, and will be fatal to
that uniformity of structure and strength which it is so
desirable to procure.
                               Summary.
    (1) There are two distinctly marked critical temperatures
for iron ; the lower somewhere about dull red, and the higher
somewhere about bright red*.
    (2) At the former of these critical temperatures the iron
begins suddenly to lose its magnetic properties if it is being
heated, and to gain them if it is being cooled.
    (3) At or near'] the latter critical temperature the iron, on
being heated, if under the slightest torsional, longitudinal,
or flexural stress or strain, begins to exhibit a remarkably
sudden change. If the met.il be under stress, the sudden
change resembles that which would result from a sudden
increase of elasticity. If the metal be permanently strained,
there is a sudden increase in the amount of the strain.
    (4) When the iron is cooling, a sudden change, but oppo
site in direction to that which occurs on heating, takes place.
The temperature at which the sudden change takes place is,
for very well annealed iron, nearly the same as that at which
the change takes place on heating. If, however, the wire be
not annealed, the change may be delayed by the so-called coer-
citive force of the metal until the lower critical temperature
is reached. When the change is so delayed, the phenomenon
of recalescence occurs.
  * I hope at some future time to be able to fix these critical tempera
tures more exactly.
   t It is not unlikely that the so-called coercitive force may cause the
change to take place at a slightly higher temperature than the critical
temperature.

                                [   268     ]
XXXIII. The Choice ofMeans. By F. Y. Edgeworth, M.A.,
          Lecturer on Logic at King's College, London*.
WHAT is the best Mean ?, is a question which I have
            elsewhere! attempted to answer generally. A sup
plement to that answer, with special reference to the case of
    One large class of Discordant Observations belongs to the
category of errors whose law of facility is a compound of
different Probability-Curves %. According to what is known or
surmised about the components, different methods may be
appropriate. It is here submitted that very generally, and in
the absence of special knowledge about the genesis of the
observations, the compound source of error may be treated
as belonging to the category of curves other than Proba
bility-Curves §. This category also comprises the species of
Discordant || Observations other than that above defined.
    What, then, are the methods proper to this category ? They
are two—the Method of Least Squares and the Method of
Situation^. The Method of Least Squares is a good method * *,
for the same reason that it may be a good plan for an Insu
rance Company to deal with a tailor or farmer according to
the general statistics for adult healthy males of the same age
and country ; if it is either impossible to obtain, or not worth
while to utilise, the special vital statistics for the different
occupations. What corresponds in our case to the abstracted
attribute of occupation, is the generally unknown form of the
retained by the Insurance Company is the Arithmetic Mean
    * Communicated by the Author.
   t " Observations and Statistics " (Cambridge Philosophical Transac
tions, 1885), corrected by the Appendix to Metretike (London Temple
Publishing Company, 1887).
   X In the notation of the paper referred to, a c defg. See examples in
the paper on Discordant Observations in this Journal, April 1887.
    § More exactly in the notation proposed by the writer, acdegh; that
is, (a) relating to an objective (not fictitious) Mean, (c) not extending to
infinity, (d) treated by way of Inverse Probability, (e) curves other than
" Probability," (gh) unique and symmetrical. For instance, the law to
which Prof. Newconib reduces his transit-observations (cited below) con
stitutes such a curve, provided that its infinite branches are cut off.
    || E. g. caused by " Mistakes " which do not obey the typical Law of
Error.
    % Laplace, TMorie Analgtique, Supplement 2, sect. 2. Mtcanique
 Cilcste, book iii. See ' Observations and Statistics.'
    ** For a fuller statement of this reasoning see the writer's Metretike.

                        On the Choice of Means.                      269
of each cluster, together with its given weight (or inverse
mean-square-of-error). We know by the Law of Error that
if f were the real point, then the probability that the Arith
metic Mean of any cluster of errors ranging under anj- (one
and the same) facility-curve would occur at the point x
(between x and x+Ax) is A#x 1- e-<(-*)'          «• , where c — twice
                                      V ire
the mean-square-of-error of the facility-curve under which
each member of the cluster ranges. Hence, looking only at
the Arithmetic Mean and weight of the given cluster, xt, x2,
&c., we may say that the a posteriori probability of its having
resulted from the real point (f is proportioned to -j=- e c              ;
where x is the Arithmetic Mean, and c the weight of the
cluster. Thus the Probability-Curve, with its peculiar faci
lities for calculation, again makes its appearance. We can
apply the rules primarily appropriate to observations obeying
the typical Law of Error, to find both the most probable and
the most advantageous Mean. And thus we find that the Arith
metic Mean is the best solution for a single cluster (and the
Weighted Arithmetic Mean for several clusters) . The Method
of Least Squares is seen to be our best course when we have
thrown overboard a certain portion of our data—a sort of
sacrifice which has often to be made by those who sail upon
the stormy seas of Probability.
    But this explanation must be received with some qualifica
tions. The analogy of insurance shows that when we do not
utilise all our information, it may be a delicate question what
part of it it is best to utilise. Take the case put by Dr. Venn*,
of an insurance company which is dealing with a consumptive
Englishman in Madeira. The ideally best plan would be to
use the statistics for consumptive Englishmen resident in
Madeira. But failing that, it may be a nice question whether
it is better to refer the customer to the category of con
sumptive persons, or of Englishmen, resident in Madeira.
 Similarly in our case it might be better, instead of directing
our exclusive attention to the Arithmetic Mean and the cor
related characteristic of the inverse mean-square-of-error, to
prescind in the same sense some other Mean, and in particular
the Median, with its correlate the Greatest Ordinatef. The
Median of any cluster fluctuates according to a Probability-
   * ' Logic of Chance,' ch. viii.
   t Laplace, Thiorie Ancdytiqiu, Supplement 2, sect. 2. See an illustra
tion in my paper on Problems in Probabilities, Phil. Mag. Oct. 1886.

 270                     Mr. F. Y. Edgeworth on
 Curve whose modulus is              . ' , P being the Greatest Ordinate
 of the common facility-curve. The criterion whether the
 Median or Arithmetic Mean is the better reduction*, is pre
 sumably the character of the correlated Probability-Curvet-
 The reduction to which corresponds the smaller Modulus is
 presumably the better ; since thus we obtain a smaller " pro
 bable " error, and, what is often more important, a smaller
 improbable, or, as Mr. Merriman proposes to call it, " huge "
error.
      Which of the reductions will have the smaller Modulus
 will depend upon the character of our facility-curve. For
 Probability-Curves, and presumably functions in their neigh
bourhood, it is shown by Laplace} that the Arithmetic Mean
 lias the advantage. But for curves whose head reaches high,
while their extremities stretch out far, the Median has the
advantage§.
      Now the grouping of Discordant Observations is apt to
 assume this form. Accordingly the Median is proposed as
 the Mean proper to this class of observations. If we have
been deceived by the appearance of Discordance || (as in Gen.
 Colby's cane, cited by Airy), and the facility-curve was really
a normal Probability-Curve, yet we shall have lost little by
 taking the Median instead of the Arithmetic Mean. For the
 error"|t of the former is of the same order as (only 1 "3 greater
than) the error of the latter. And, if the observations are
really discordant, the derangement due to the larger devia
 tions will not be serious, as it is for the Arithmetic Mean**.
      In illustration of the former proposition, lot us take forty
 observations made by Bessel (on Saturn's ring), which Prof.
 Chauvenet has citedf t as presumably of the normal type. The
Median is found by arranging the observations in the order
of magnitude and taking a mean between the twentieth and
twenty-first}}. They are both 4- "01, the Arithmetic Mean
   • Dr. Venn's criterion is much the same,
   t Laplace, loc. cit. Op. Camb. Phil. Trans. 188-5, pp. 1C8-9.
       Loc. cit.
       Camb. Phil, Trans, p. 108.
    || See the paper on Discordant Observations in the April number of this
Journal.
   If Laplace, he. cit.
   ** This advantage of the Median over the Arithmetic Mean has been
noticed by Fechner, Mr. Galton, and others,
   ft ' Astronomy,' vol. i. p. 4SJ5.
   %% There is a little indeterminateness here (the number of observations
being even) of not much practical importanco when the number is large.

                         the Choice of Means.                      271
 being taken as zero. Now the probable error incident to the
Arithmetic Mean is found by Prof. Chauvenet to be "022.
 There is then no reason for much preferring 0 to 0"01.
     As a second example of the safety of the method, let us
 take the observations cited by Sir G. Airy at tho end of (the
 later editions of) his ' Theory of Errors.' The original obser
 vations, which have been submitted to me by the kindness of
 Mr. Turner, of the Royal Observatory, Greenwich, are in
 number 636. Arranging them in the order of magnitude and
 counting from the lowest, we shall find that the 318th obser
 vation is — 0'03 (where zero is the Arithmetic Mean). The
 319th observation has the same value. And accordingly that
 is the value of the Median. Now, according to Sir G. Airy's
 results, the probable error of the Arithmetic Mean is about
   '57
   ,     : that is, about "022. The value —'03, therefore, is
\/642               '                                   '           '
not a bad one upon the supposition that the given observa
tions are perfectly normal, that they range under a single
probability-curve.
     Upon the supposition, which there is reason for entertain
ing, that the given observations are somewhat "discordant,"
the value — '03 is just as eligible as zero. It may be remarked
that, by Laplace's formula, the probable-error for the Median
is about "03. So that upon neither supposition is there much
to choose between the two results.
     As an example of the general case, where the method is not
only safe but useful, let us take the 684 observations (of transits
of Mercury)* discussed by Prof. Newcomb in the 4 American
Journal of Mathematics, 1885. The Arithmetic Mean being
taken as zero, I find for the Median — 045. The error of
this result may be found by the formula above given, if wo
put for the greatest ordinate 30 ; that, being the number of
observations per unit of abscissa in the neighbourhood of the
centre. I find for the Modulus 0'6, and for the Mean error
 (in the sense of square root of half-modulus) about "55. On
the other hand, Prof. Newcomb's method (if I have rightly
worked the laborious arithmetic which it involves) gives
for the correction of the Arithmetic Mean — *6, subject to a
Mean Error of about "5. In view of so slight a difference
between the results and so great a liability to error in the
calculation, is there much reason for preferring the laborious
to the rough and ready method ? In reducing observations
it is possible to go further and not fare any better.
   * They are given in full in the 'Astronomical Papers of the American
Ephemeris,' vol. i.

                          [  272    ]
XXXIV. Stability of Motion {continued from the May, June,
   and August Numbers).—Broad River flowing down an
   Inclined Plane Bed. By Sir William Thomson, F.R.S.*
41. /"CONSIDER now the second of the two cases referred
      V-^ to in § 27—that is to say, the case of water on an
inclined plane bottom, under a fixed parallel plane cover
(ice, for example), both planes infinite in all directions and
gravity everywhere uniform. We shall' include, as a sub
case, the icy cover moving with the water in contact with
it, which is particularly interesting, because, as it annuls
tangential force at the upper surface, it is, for the steady
motion, the same case as that of a broad open river flowing
uniformly over a perfectly smooth inclined plane bed. It is
not the same, except when the motion is steadily laminar,
the difference being that the surface is kept rigorously plane,
but not free from tangential force, by a rigid cover, while the
open surface is kept almost but not quite rigorously plane by
gravity, and rigorously free from tangential force. But, pro
vided the bottom is smooth, the smallness of the dimples and
little round hollows which we see on the surface, produced
by turbulence (when the motion is turbulent), seems to prove
that the motion must be very nearly the same as it would be
if the upper surface were kept rigorously plane, and free from
tangential force.
   42. The sub-case described in § 31 having been disposed of
in §§ 32-40, we now take the including case, described in the
first half-sentence of § 31 ; for which we have, as steady
solution, according to (5),
                      V = f3y-\cf                         (57),
if we reckon y from the bottom upwards. Thus (7), (8), (9),
 (11), (12) become
                                                       •  w.
                          2(/3-<*)£=            ~V2P •    (61),
        rfV2t> , dv lo      . 2.dV2t>       „4            ,aas
        ~dT+cdi + W-W) ~w =MV * ¦                   •  •  <62>-
                  * Communicated by the Author.

                Broad Riverflowing down an Inclined Plane Bed.                  273
            43. Wo have not now any such simple partial solution as
         that of §§ 34, 35, 36 for the suh-caso there dealt with ; and
         we proceed at once to the virtually inclusive* investigation
         specified in § 37, and, as in § 38, assume
                                        v = ^t+m,+qz)                         (63).
        This gives
                   Jt = "°>      Jx = 'm>       and    V2=|,-m*-r/ . (64):
        and (62) becomes therefore
        /, ^ - foim* + ?2) + « [« + m{By-W) ] * ^
      + {/t(wa + 2I)* + t[w + m(/3y-icys)](m3 + 23)-tCm^ = 0 . (65),
        or, for brevity,
                M-r^+(e+/y+^)^+(A + % + W=° ¦                                (66).
        To integrate this, assume
                        qj=c0 + c1y + csy'i + csy3 + c4y' + Su:. .    .  .   (67);
        and, by equating to zero the coefficient of y{ in (66), we
        find
        (i + 4)(i + 3)(t + 2)(i + l)/icJ+4 + (i + 2)(i + l)ecl+2
                + (i + l)ifc(+l+li(i-i)q+h']ct + kci_l + lcl_t=0 • (68).
        Making now successively 2 = 0, i=l, i=2, . . ., and re
        membering that c with any negative suffix is zero, we find
4 . 3 . 2 . 1 . fic4 + 2 . 1 . ec2 + /tc0=0,
5 . 4 . 3 . 2 . fics + 3 . 2 . ec3 + 2 . 1 . fct + he, + kco = 0,
6.5.4.3. /tc6 + 4. 3.ec4 + 3.2./b3 + (2.1 .g + h)c3 + kci + lco=0, ')> (69)
7.6.5.4. ^ + 5 .4. ec5 + 4. 3. /c4 + (3.2. 5r + A)c3 + A:c3 + fc1=0,
                &c.                        &c.                    &c.
        These equations, taken in order, give successively c4, c6, c6, . . .,
        each explicitly as a linear function of c0, c1} c2, c3 ; and by
          * The Fourier-Sturm-Liouville analysis (Fourier, Tltiorie de la Chahur ;
       Sturm and Liouville, Liouville's Journal for the year 18.'i6, and Lord
       Rayleigh's ' Theory of Sound,' § 142, vol. ii. shows how to express an
       arbitrary function of ,r, y, z by summation of the type solutions of §§ 37,
       39 above and § 43 (63), (07), (70) here, and so to complete, whether for
       our present case or former sub-case, the fulfilment of the conditions (26),
       (27), without using the method of §§ 34, 35, 36.
           Phil Mag. S. 5. Vol. 24. No. 148. Sept. 1887.                   T

274             Sir W. Thomson on a Broad River
using in (67) the expressions so obtained, we find
          0=^o(y)+c,&(y)+*&(y)+c,&(y) . . (70),
where c0, c1; c3, c3 are four arbitrary' constants, and $0,    %a
^3 four functions, each wholly d*eterminate, expressed in a
series of ascending powers of y which by (68) we see to
be convergent for all values of y, unless fi be zero. The
essential convergency of these series proves (as in § 39 for
the case of no gravity) that the steady motion (m = 0, 0=0,
w=0) is stable, however small be n, provided it is not zero.
   44. The less is         the less the convergence. When fi is
very small there is divergence for many terms, but ultimate
convergence.
   45. In the case of /* = 0, the differential equation (66), or
(67), becomes reduced from the 4th to the 2nd order, and
may be written as follows :—
         *«?=(w.
          dy*      \     + g»-          "»
                            1 <o + m(/3y-±cy*)J }V      .  . (71).
This, for the case of two-dimensional motion (^ = 0), agrees
with Lord Kayleigh's result, expressed in the last equation of
his paper on " The Stability or Instability of certain Fluid
Motions" (Proc. Lond. Math. Soc. Feb. 12, 1880). The
integral, but now with only two arbitrary constants (c0, Ci),
is still given in ascending powers of y by (67) and (68),
which, with ft=0, and the thus-simplified values of e, f, g put
in place of these letters, becomes
       -*[(» + 2)0" + 1 V.-+2 + (*" + 1>""i^c<+i]
               + [~i(i--l)nie+h]ci+kc._l + lc(_t=0 .         (72).
For very great values of i this gives
                    coci+2 + m@c.+ l — fancc(=0   ....       (73),
which shows that ultimately, except in the case of one
particular value of the ratio Cj/c'u,
                             •i+ifo = ?-                     (74),
where f denotes the smaller root of the equation
                        a + m/3y— fancy* = 0                 (75).
Hence there is certainly not convergence for values of y
exceeding the smaller root of (75), and thus the proof of
stability is lost.
   46. But the differential equation, simplified in (71) for the
case of no viscosity, may no doubt be treated more appro

                flowing down an inclined Plane Bed.                      275
priately in respect to the question of stability or instability,
by writing it as follows [f, £ denoting the two roots of (75)],
and integrating with special consideration of the infinities at
y = £and y=$'- One way of doing this, which I merely sug
gest at present, and do not follow out for want of time, is to
assume
         ^=G(^-y + c2                  + e3 &-y)3 +&c.},
           + C'{?-y + c3'(?-y)* + c3'(?-y)3 + &c.} . . (77),
where C and C are two arbitrary constants, and ct, Cj, . . . ,
Cj', c3, . . . coefficients to be determined so as to satisfy the
differential equation. This is very easily done ; and when
 done shows that each series converges for all values of y less,
 in absolute magnitude, than — £, and diverges for values of
 y exceeding % — f. The working out of this in detail would
 be very interesting, and would constitute the full mathematical
 treatment of the problem of finding sinuous stream-lines
 (curves of sines) throughout the space between two " cat's-
 eye " borders (corresponding to y = £ and y=%) which I pro
 posed in a short communication to Section A of the British
 Association at Swansea, in 1880*, " On a Disturbing Infinity
 in Lord Hayleigh's solution for Waves in a plane Vortex
 stratum." It is to be remarked that this disturbing infinity
 vitiates the seeming proof of stability contained in Lord
 Rayleigh's equations (56), (57), (58).
     47. Realizing (63), and interpreting the result in con
 nexion with (57), we see that
     (a) The solution which we have found consists of a wave-
  disturbance travelling in any (x, z) direction, of which the
 propagational velocity in the ^-direction is — co/m.
     (6) The roots (?, ?') of (75) are values of y at places where
 the velocity of the undisturbed laminar flow is equal to the
 ^-velocity of the wave-disturbance.
      Hence, supposing the bonnding-planes to be plastic, and
  force to be applied to either or both of them so as to pro
  duce an infinitesimal undulatory corrugation, according to
  the formula cos (cot + nun + qz), this surface-action will cause
  throughout the interior a corresponding infinitesimal wave-
  motion if co/m is not equal to the value of U for any plane of
     • Of which an abstract is published in ' Nature ' for Noven.oer 11, 1880,
  and in the British Association volume Report for the year. In this ab
  stract cancel the statement " is stable," with reference to a certain steady
  motion described in it.
                                      T2

  27(5                 SirW. Thomson on a Broad River
  the fluid between its boundaries. But the infinity corre
  sponding to y = £ or y=% will vitiate this solution if ay/m is
  equal to the value of U for some one plane of tlie fluid or
  for two planes of the fluid ; and the true solution will involve
  the " cat's-eye pattern " of stream-lines, and the enclosed
  elliptic whirls*, at this plane or these planes.
      48. Now let the fluid be given moving with the steady
  laminar flow between two parallel boundary planes, expressed
  by (57), which would be a condition of kinetic equilibrium
  (proved stablo in §43) under the influence of gravity and
  viscosity ; and let both gravity and viscosity be suddenly
  annulled. The fluid is still in kinetic equilibrium ; but is the
  equilibrium stable ? To answer this question, let one or both
  bounding-surfaces be infinitesimally dimpled in any place and
 made plane again. The Fourier synthesis of this surface-
 operation is
      r\ GO I 00 C* ac
      ill d<odmdqf(a>) F(m) %(q) cos tot cos mx cos qz (78),
     Jo Jo •'o
 or
  I        I 1 dadmdqf(a) F(m) §(</){cos (at — mx)
    Jo Jo Jo
                                      — cos (mt + mx)} cos qz . (79),
 which implies harmonic surface-undulations travelling in
 opposite ^-directions, with all values from 0 to oo of (<u/»n),
 the + ai of wave-velocity. Hence (§ 47) the interior dis
turbance essentially involves elliptic whirls. Thus we see
that the given steady laminar motion is thoroughly unstable,
being ready to break up into eddies in every place, on the
occasion of the slightest shock or bump on either plastic
plane boundary. The slightest degree of viscosity, as
 we have seen, makes the laminar motion stable ; but the
 smaller the viscosit}' with a given value of g sin I, or the
 greater the value of g sin I with the same viscosity, the nar
rower are the limits of this stability. Thus we have been led
by purely mathematical investigation to a state of motion
agreeing perfectly with the following remarkable descriptions
of observed results by Osborne Reynolds (Phil. Trans. March
15, 1883, pp. 955, 95r>):—
    " The fact that the steady motion breaks down suddenly,
shows that the fluid is in a state of instability for disturbances
of the magnitude which cause it to break down. But the
fact that in some conditions it will break down for a large
disturbance, while it is stable for a smaller disturbance, shows
   * See my former paper on the " Disturbing Infinity " already referred to.

                 flowing dovcn an Inclined Plane Bed.                   277
 that there is a certain residual stability, so long as the dis
 turbances do not exceed a given amount.". . .
    " And it was a matter of surprise to me to see the sudden
 force with which the eddies sprang into existence, showing a
 highly unstable condition to have existed at the time the
 steady motion broke down."
    " This at once suggested the idea that the condition might
 be one of instability for disturbance of a certain magnitude,
 and stable for smaller disturbances."
    49. The motion investigated experimentally by Reynolds,
 and referred to in the preceding statements, was that of
water in a long straight uniform tube of circular section. It
is to be hoped that candidates for the Adams Prize of 1888
may investigate this case mathematically, and give a complete
solution for infinitesimal deviations from rectilineal motion.
It is probable that for it, and generally for a uniform straight
tube of any cross section, including the extreme, and extremely
simplified, case of rectilinear motion of a viscous fluid between
 two parallel fixed planes, which I have worked out above, the
 same general conclusion as that stated at the end of § 2G and
 in §§43-48 will be found true.
   50. In the case of no gravity [g sin 1 = 0), and the viscous fluid
kept in " shearing " or " laminar " motion by relative motion
of the tw o parallel planes, there is, when viscosity is annulled,
 no disturbing instability in the steady uniform shearing mo
 tion, with its uniform molecular rotation throughout, which
 viscosity would produce; and therefore our reason for sus
pecting any limitation of the excursions within which there
 is stability, and for expecting possible permanence of any kind
of turbulent or tumultuous motion between two perfectly
smooth planes (or between two polished planes with any
practical velocities) does not exist in this case. But a
great variety of general observation (and particularly Ran-
kine and Froude's doctrine of the " skin-resistance " of
ships, and Froude's experimental determination of the re
sistance experienced by a very smooth, thin, vertical board,
 19 inches broad and 50 feet long, moved at different uni
form speeds* through water in a broad deep tank 278 feet
   * ' Report to the Lords Commissioners of the Admiralty on Experiments
for the Determination of the Frictional Resistance of Water on a Surface
under various conditions, performed at Chelston Cross (Torquay), under
the Authority of their Lordships.' By W. Froudo. (London : Taylor and
Francis. 1874.)
   Froudo found that, at a constant velocity of 000 feet per minute, the
resistance of the water against one of his smoothest surfaces, at positions
two feet abaft of the cutwater and oO feet abaft of the cutwater, respec
tively, was -205 of a pound per square loot, and -244 of a pound per square

 278             Prof. A. Gray on the Steady Flow of
 long) makes it certain that if water be given at rest between
 two infinite planes both at rest, and if one of the planes
 be suddenly, or not too gradually, set in motion, and kept
  moving uniformly, the motion of the water will be at first
 turbulent, and the ultimate condition of uniform shearing will
 be approached by gradual reduction and ultimate annulment
 of the turbulence. I hope to make a communication on this
 subject to Section A of the British Association in Manchester,
 and to have it published in the October number of the Philo
 sophical Magazine. Corresponding questions must be ex
 amined with reference to the corresponding tubular problem,
 of an infinitely long, straight, solid bar kept moving in water
 within an infinitely long fixed tube. It is to be hoped that
 the 1888 Adams Prize will bring out important investiga
 tions on this subject.
                               [To be contiaued.]
 XXXV. Note on an Elementary Proof of certain Theorems
    regarding the Steady Flow of Electricity in a Network of
     Conductors. By Andrew Gray, ALA., F.R.S.E., Pro
   fessor of Physics in the University College of North Wales*.
 THE following elementary proof of the principal theorems
        of a network of conductors may be of interest. It will
be necessary to consider first the well known and, for our
 purpose, typical case of a network of five conductors, shown
in the figure. We assume the so-called laws of Kirchhoff,
namely the principle of continuity applied to the steady flow
 of electricity in a linear system ;
and the theorem (at once deducible
from Ohm's law) that in any closed
circuit of conductors forming part
of a linear system, the sum of the
products obtained by multiplying
the current in each part taken in
order round the circuit by its resist
ance, is equal to the sum of the
electromotive forces in the circuit.
    Let tho wire joining A P> contain
foot. Remark that this astonishingly great force of a quarter of a pound
per square foot (! !) is the resistance due to uniform laminar flow of water
between two parallel planes ^ of a centimetre (yjff of a foot !) asunder,
when one of the planes is moving relatively to the other at 10 feet (300
centimetres! per second, if the water be at the temperature 0" Cent., for
which the viscosity, calculated from Poiseuille's                  on the flow
                                                  i's observations ou     rlnw
of water in capillary tubes, is l-34xl0~5' of a gramme weight per square
centimetre.
   * Communicated by the Author.

              Electricity in a Network of Conductors.             279
a battery of electromotive force E, the only electromotive
force in the system, and let the resistances and directions of
the currents in the various parts of the system be as indicated
in the diagram. Let r6 be the resistance of the battery and
the wires connecting it with A and B, and let yu y3, &c. be
the strengths of the currents flowing in the resistances rlf rx,
&c, respectively, in the directions indicated by the arrows.
By the principle of continuity we get
                               73=71-760
                               7*=7j + 7«>?-                       (0
                               76=7i + 72-
Applying the second principle to the circuits BACB, ACDA,
CBDC, we obtain the three equations
        7i(»,i + »,» + »,«)+7j»,6 — Vsr3              =E>-)
        7in                -Wt + Wt                   =0, > • • (2)
        7irs               - y2»*4 —7«     + *"* + n) = 0, *
Eliminating <yx and 72, we find                              ,
                            _ E(r2r3-riri)
                         y«=          jj                           \a)
where
   D = rpt (r, + r2 + rs + r4) + r8 (rx + r,) (r3 + r4)
          + J-6(r1 + r2)(r3 + »-4) +r1r3(ri + r4) H-rj^^ + ra). . (4)
    By substituting for y2 in the second and third of equations
(2) its value 76— 7i, we get
             7i + r3) + y5rs                  - y6r2 = 0, )        ^
             7i(r3 +       - 7s (rz + n + rs)— y6rA = 0. f
From these we obtain, by eliminating 7,,                        *
               =                yeiVi-r^)
            76 r^ + ri + n + rJ + i^ + rJfa + nY ' ' ^
 By means of equations (3) and (6) we can very easily solve
 the problem of finding the equivalent resistance of the system
 of five resistances, ru r2, &c, between A and B. For let R
be this equivalent resistance ; since j6 is the current flowing
 through the battery, we have 78=E/(r6 + R). Substituting
 this value of y6 in (6), equating the values of 75 given by (3)
 and (6), and solving for R, we get
      R_ rs{rx + r„) {r2 + rt) + rxr3(r2 + r4) + r2rt (r, + r3)
    The following theorem, which can be verified by experi
ment, will be of use in what immediately follows.

280            Prof. A. Gray on the Steady Flow of
    Any two points in a linear system which are at different
potentials may be joined by a wire without altering in any way
the state of the system, provided the wire contains an electromo
tive force equal and opposite to the difference ofpotential between
 the two points. For the wire before being joined will, in con
 sequence of the electromotive force, have the same difference
 of potentials between its extremities as between the two
 points ; and if the end of the wire which is at the lower po
 tential be joined to the point of lower potential, it will have
 the potential of that point and no change will take place in
 the system. The other end will then be at the potential of
 the other point, and may be supposed coincident with that
 point, without change in the state of the system. The new
 system thus obtained plainly satisfies the principle of conti
 nuity and the other theorem assumed above, and is therefore
 possible ; and it can be proved that it is the only possible
 arrangement under the condition that the state of the original
 system shall remain unaltered.
    As a particular case, any two points in a linear circuit
which are at the same potential may be connected either
directly or by a wire of any resistance, without altering the
state of the system.
    Further, it follows that if an electromotive force in one con
ductor ofa linear system produces no current in another conductor
of the system, either of the conductors may be removed without
altering the current in the other. For let one conductor be re
moved : the potentials at the points of the system at which it
 was attached will in general then be altered. And since any
two points in a linear system between which there is a differ
 ence of potentials may, without altering the state of the sj'stem
 in any way, be joined by a wire which contains an electromo
 tive force equal and opposite to the difference of potentials,
 we may suppose the conductor replaced with an electromotive
 force in it equal to the difference of potential now existing
 between the two points, and its presence or removal will not
affect the current in any part of the system. But the same
result may be attained, of course, without removing the con
ductor, by simply placing within it the required electromotive
force ; and this by hypothesis does not affect the current in
the other conductor. Hence the removal of one conductor
does not affect the current in the other.
    If A, B, G, D be four points of meeting in a network of
linear conductors, in one wire of which joining A B there is
an electromotive force, while CD is connected by one or more
separate wires, the network can bo reduced to a system of six
conductors arranged as in the figure, and such that the wires
AB, CD, the currents in them, and the potentials at their ex

              Electricity in a Network of Conductors.        281
tremities remain unchanged. For currents will enter any one
mesh of the network at certain points and leave it at certain
other points. One of the former points must be the point of
maximum potential in the mesh, one of the latter the point of
minimum potential. The circuit of the mesh, therefore, con
sists of two parts joining these two points, and to any point
in one of the parts will correspond a point of the same poten
 tial in the other part. Wo may therefore suppose every point
 in one in coincidence with points of the same potential in the
 other ; that is, the mesh replaced by a single wire joining the
 two points, and such that the currents entering or leaving it
 by wires joining it to the rest of the system and the potentials
 at the points of junction, are not altered.
    Since the only electromotive force is in the wire AB, the
 current must enter the network at one of its extremities, A,
 say, and leave at the other extremity ; A and B are therefore
 the points of maximum and minimum potential of the network.
 Hence we can replace the meshes of the system one by one by
 single wires, keeping CD unaltered until we have reduced the
 network to two meshes, one on each side of CD, connected, if
 necessary, by single wires to A and B respectively. Each mesh
 and connecting-wire can be replaced by two wires joining A
 and B respectively with C and D, and thus the whole system is
 reduced to an equivalent system of the form shown in tho figure.
 We can now deduce from this simple system relations for the
 currents and potentials in the conductors AB, CD, which will
 hold for these conductors in the more complex system.
     Let the electromotive force hitherto supposed acting in AB
 be transferred to CD, while the resistances r6, re are main
 tained unaltered. The value of 76 will be obtained from ((>)
 by retaining the numerator unaltered and interchanging
 r6 and r6, ri+rt and rt+r3, r3 + r4 and rt + rt in D. But
 these interchanges will not effect any alteration in the value
 of D ; and hence tho new value of 76 is equal to the former
 value of 75. Hence the theorem :—An electromotive force
 which, placed in any conductor Cj of a linear system, causes
 a current to flow in any other Cp would, if placed in Cp,
 cause an equal current to flow in C<.
     If the arrangement is such that when the electromotive
  force is in C; the current in Cm is zero, the current in
  C; will be zero when the electromotive force is in Cm ; and no
  electromotive force in one will produce a current in the other.
  The two conductors are in this case said to be conjugate.
     We can easily obtain another important theorem. The
 five conductors AC, AD, BC, BD, CD in the figure may bo
 regarded as the reduced equivalent of a network of con
 ductors, at one point of which, A, a current of amount ye

                          Geological Society :—
 enters, and at another point of which, B, the same current
 leaves. Multiplying the expression for y5 by r6, we get for
 the difference of potentials between C and D the value
           76 5 rt(r, + r, + r, + r4) + (r, + r,)(r3 + r4)' ' ' ^
   But the resistance of the system of five conductors, between the
 points C, D, is the reciprocal of the sum l/fPi + »'2) + l/(r3"rr4)
  + l/rs of the conductivities of the three arcs which join C, D,
 that is,
                           r5(ri+r3)(r3 + r4)
                '•sOi + r2 + r3 + r4) + (r| + r2)(r3 + rj'
 and if a current of amount y6 enter at C and leave at D, the
 difference of potentials between C and D will be equal to this
 expression multiplied by y6. The product multiplied by
 ri/(ri + ri) is the difference of potentials between C and A,
 and multiplied by rsl(rt + r^) is the difference of potentials
 between C and B. Hence, the difference of potentials be
 tween A and B is the difference of these products, or
               n(rt + r2 + r3 + >\) +. (r, + r2)(r3 +
 the same value as that given in (8) for the difference of
potentials between C and D. Hence the theorem :
    // to a current entering at one point A of a linear system,
and leaving at another point B, there correspond a certain
difference of potentials between two other poi?its C and I), then
to an equal current entering the system at C and leaving at D
there icill correspond the same difference of potentials between
A and B*.
            XXXVI. Proceedings of Learned Societies.
                         GEOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
                         [Continued from p. 222.]
 May 11, 1887.—Prof. J. W. Judd, F.R.S., President, in the Chair.
THE following communications were read :—
       1. "Further Observations on Hyperodapedon Oordoni.'' By
Prof. T. Huxley, LL.D., F.K.S., F.G.S.
   2. " On the Bocks of the Essex Drift." By Eev. A. W. Rowe,
M.A., F.GA
   The rocks of the drift in Essex are of such great variety that it is
   * The theorems just proved have been obtained in different ways by
Kirchhoff (Pogrj. Ann. Bd. lxxii. 1847, and Ges. Abhand. p. 22), and
Maxwell (El. and Map;, vol. i., second edition, p. 371) from a consideration
of the general theory of a linear system.

                  On the Rocks of the Essex Drift.                 283
difficult both to get a really representative collection and to classify
them when they have been collected. About two hundred speci
mens have been taken, and sections have been made of ono hundred
 and fifty of these. There is a remarkable absence of granite of any
kind, and only two specimens of syenite have been found. Quartz-
porphyrites and quartz-tourmaline rocks are fairly abundant, felsites
are rarely met with, but felspar porphyrites are very abundant ;
trachytes also are found, but there is some reason for suspecting that
these- do not really belong to the drift, but have been imported in
very early times. The most abundant of the igneous rocks are the
dolerites ; but all the coarser dolerites and those of a true ophitic
character are wanting. Many of the specimens are of subophitic
texture, and bear a general likeness to the subophitic dolerites of
Central England, though without having any Bpecial points of re
semblance ; some of the specimens, however, are strikiugly like tho
rocks of the Whin- Sill, and that too in certain special points. The
dolerites of trachytic texture, or basalts, do not at all resemble
those of the North of England, but some of them are almost iden
tical with certain Scandinavian basalts. One or two specimens
deserve special mention, and among them a hyperstheno-bearing
dolerite that is more nearly ophitic than any of tho others. Two
specimens of granulite containing hypersthene are interesting as
belonging to a well-characterized type. The crystalline schists are
not abundant ; among them is a hornblende schist containing abun
dance of tourmaline. The sandstones, some of which are of very
large size, belong chiefly to tho Carboniferous series, and, as a rule
are unfossilifcrous. Two blocks, however, of fossiliferous sandstone
of a somewhat peculiar character have been found, and have been
identified with the sandstone of the Lower Neocomian series in
Lincolnshire. Of the limestones there are a great number of blocks
of a hard grey crystallino limestone of the Carboniferous series
containing some very perfect specimens of Foraminifera ; and
two specimens from the Rha:tic beds, which are of peculiar in
terest if, as it is said, the Ithoetic beds do not now come to the
surface anywhere in tho North of England. The greater num
ber, however, of the limestones belong to the Jurassic series ;
there are also many lumps of very hard chalk which have been
identified with the hard chalk of Cambridgeshire. The micro
scopic soctions of tho Chalky Boulder-clay show that amid grains of
quartz, sand &c. there are a great number of minute Foraminifera
still wonderfully well preserved. The way in which the Chalky
Boulder-clay and the gravels lie was well shown in a railway-cutting
near Dunmow some short time ago, and happily a small photograph
of the section was taken at the time, for that part of the cutting has
now been covered in. This investigation cannot be said, so far, to
have been productive of any great results ; but it is possible that
this attempt at classifying and describing the rocks of the drift may
be of some assistance to those who are considering the general ques
tion of the glacial drift.

284                     Geological Society :—
   3. "On Tertiary Cyclostomatous Bryozoa from New Zealand."
By Arthur W. Waters, Esq., F.G.8.
     May 25—Prof. J. W. Judd, F.R.S., President, ui the Chair.
   The following communications were read :—
   1. "On the Bemains of Fishes from the Keuper of Warwick and
Nottingham." By E. T. Newton, Esq., F.G.S.; with Notes on
their Mode of Occurrence bv the Rev. P. B. Brodie, M.A., F.G.S.,
and E. Wilson, Esq., F.G.S.
   2. " Considerations on the Date, Duration, and Conditions of the
Glacial Period with reference to the Antiquity of Man." By Prof.
Joseph Prestwich, M.A., F.R.S., F.G.S.
   After showing how the discoveries in the valley of the Somme and
elsewhere, 28 years ago, led geologists who had previously been dis
posed to restrict the age of man, to exaggerate the period during
which the human race had existed, the author proceeded to discuss
the views of Dr. Croll on the date of the Glacial epoch. Dr. Croll,
who had at first referred this to an earlier phase of orbital eccen
tricity, commencing 980,000 years ago, subsequently regarded it as
coinciding with a minor period of eccentricity that commenced
240,000 and terminated 80,000 years since. This last estimate was
chiefly supported by the amount of denudation that had subsequently
taken place.
   The efficacy of the increased eccentricity of the earth's orbit in
producing the cold of the Glacial epoch was shown to be very
doubtful ; for as similar changes in the eccentricity had occurred
165 times in the last 100 millions of years, there must have
been many glacial epochs in geological times, several of them much
more severe that of the Pleistocone period. But of such glacial
epochs there was no valid evidence. Another inference from Dr.
Croll's theories, that each glacial epoch consisted of a succession of
alternating cold and warm or interglacial phases was also questioned,
such alternations as had been indicated having probably been due
to changes in the distribution of land and water, not to eosmical
causes. The time requisite for such interglacial poriods as were
supported by geological evidence was more probably hundreds than
thousands of years.
   Recent observations in Greenland by Professor Holland, Mr. V.
Stoenstrup, and Dr. Rink, had shown that the movement of ice in
largo quantities was much more rapid, and consequently the denu
dation produced much greater than was formerly supposed. The
average rate of progress in several of the largo iceberg-producing
glaciers in Greenland had been found to be 36 feet daily. Applying
these data and the probable accumulation of ice due to the rainfall
and condensation to the determination of the time necessary for the
formation of the ice-sheet, the author was disposed to limit, the
duration of the Glacial epoch to from 15,000 to 20,000 years, in
cluding in this estimate the time during which the cold was in

     Upper Cretaceous Series in West Suffolk and Norfolk.          285
 creasing, or preglacial time, and that during which the cold was
 diminishing, or postglacial time.
    Details were then given to show that the estimate of one foot on
 an average being removed from the surface by denudation in 6000
 years, on which estimate was founded the hypothesis of 80,000
 years having elapsed since the Glacial epoch, was insufficient, as a
 somewhat heavier rainfall and the disintegrating effects of frost
 would produce far more rapid denudation. It was incredible that
 man should have remained physically unchanged throughout so long
 a period. At the same time the evidence brought forward by Mr.
 Tiddeman, Dr. Hicks, and Mr. Skertchly of the occurrence of
 human relics in preglacial times, had led the author to change his
 views as to the age of the high-level gravels in the Somme, Seine,
 Thames, and Avon valleys, and he was now disposed to assign these
 beds to tho early part of the Glacial epoch, when the ice-sheet was
 advancing. Tins advance drove the men who then inhabited
western Europe to localities such as those mentioned which were
not covered with ice. Man must, however, have occupied the
 country but a short time before the land was overwhelmed by the
ice-sheet. The close of the Glacial epoch, i. e. the final melting of
the ice-sheet, might have taken place from 8000 to 10,000 years since.
 Neolithic man made his appearance in Europe 3000 to 4000 years
 B.C., but may have existed for a long time previously in the east, as
 in Egypt and Asia Minor civilized communities and large States
flourished at an earlier date than 4000 B.C.
    3. " Notes on some Carboniferous Species of Murckisonia in our
Public Museums." By Miss Jane Donald.
     June 8.—Prof. J. W. Judd, F.R.S., President, in the Chair.
    The following communications were read : —
    1. "A Revision of the Echinoidea from the Australian Ter-
tiaries." By Prof. P. Martin Duncan, M.B., F.G.S.
    2. " On the Lower Part of the Upper Cretaceous Series in West
Suffolk and Norfolk." By A. J. Jukes-Brown, Esq., B.A.., F.G.S.,
and W. Hill, Esq., F.G.S.
    The district described in this paper is that of West Suffolk and
Norfolk, and is one which has never been thoroughly examined ; for
no one has yet attempted to trace the beds and zonal divisions which
are found at Cambridge through the tract of country which lies
between Newmarket and Hunstanton. Until this was done the
Hunstanton section could not be correlated definitely with that of
the neighbourhood of Cambridge. It was the Authors' endeavour
to accomplish this, and the following is an outline of the results
obtained by them.
    The paper was divided into six parts:—(1) Stratigraphical, (2)
Palaeontological, (3) Microscopical, (4) Chemical Analyses, (5) Faults
and Alteration of Strike, (6) Summary and Inferences. In the four
first parts separate lines of argument were followed, and each led to
the same set of conclusions.

286                      Geological Society i—-
   The chief interest, of the paper probably centres in the Gault, and
its relations to the Chalk Marl and the Red Chalk. Quite recently
the very existence of Gault in Norfolk has been disputed, but tho
Authors think the facts they adduce and the fossils they have found
will decide that point. The Gault at, Stoke Ferry is about 60 feet
thick, and in the outlier at Muzzle Farm AminoniUs interruplvs
occurs plentifully in the form of clay-casts with the inner whorls
phosphatized. At Roydon a boring was made which showed the
Gault to bo about 20 feet thick, the lower part being a dark blue clay,
above which were two bands of limestone enclosing a layer of red marl,
and the upper 10 feet were soft grey marl ; the limestones contained
Amm. rostrattts, Amm. lautus, Inoceramus sulcatus, and Inoc. concen-
tricus ('?), while the marls above contained Belemnites minimus in
abundance. At Dersingham another boring was made which proved
the grey marl (2 feet) to overlie hard yellow marl, passing down into
red marl, which rests on Carstone. Tho grey marl thins out north
ward, and as the red marl occupies the position of the Red Chalk,
the Authors believe them to bo on tho same horizon, an inference
confirmed by the presence of Gault Ammonites in tho Red Chalk.
   Another point of importance is the increasingly calcareous nature
of the Gault as it is followed northward through Norfolk. This
was regarded as evidence of passing away from the land supplying
inorganic matter, and approaching what was then a deeper part of
the sea ; this inferenco is borne out by the microscopical evidence.
    As regards tho Chalk Marl, it also becomes more calcareous : at
Stoke it is still over 70 feet thick, and its base is a glauconitic marl
which can be traced to Shouldham and Marham, but beyond this
the baso is a hard chalk or limestone, which is conspicuous near
Grimston and Roydon, and passes, as the Authors believe, into the
so-called " sponge bed " at Hunstanton.
    The Tottemhoe Stone is traced through Norfolk, but is thin at
Hunstanton (2 feet); its existence, however, enables the limits of
 the Chalk Marl to be defined, with the result that some 13 feet of
 the hard chalk at Hunstanton must be referred to that subdivision.
    The Grey Chalk also thins northward, and from 90 feet near
 Cambridge is reduced to about 30 at Hunstanton. The Belcmnite-
 mnrls are traceable in Norfolk, but cither thin out or are replaced
 by hard white chalk near Heacham.
    Tho Melbourne Rock is continuous, and maintains similar charac
 ters throughout.
    The total diminution in the thickness of Lower Chalk is from 170
 feet at Newmarket to 55 feet at Hunstanton, viz. 115 feet. An
 endeavour was made to estimate the amount and extent of Gault
removed by erosion from Arlesey and Stoke Ferry.
    5. " On some Occurrences of Piedmontite-schist in Japan." By
R. Koto, Esq.
    The occurrence of mangan-epidoto or piedmontite in connexion
with the glaucophanc-bearing rocks, in the crystalline schists of
Japan, had already been indicated by the Author. But the mura

                       Nepheline Rocks in Brazil.                 287
saki " or violet-rock contains it as an essential component. This
is well developed near Tokusima, and its geological range has been
traced further. The piedmontitc occurs in this rock along with fine
quartz-grains under a schistose arrangement, the accessories being
muscovite, greenish-yellow garnet, rutile, some felspars, iron-
glance, &c.
     The crystals of piedmontite are elongated, cracked, and much
 striated, and occur with the orthopinacoid parallel to the planes of
 schistosity. The crystal faces are, as a rule, well dcvoloped, thus
 differing from common epidote, regarded as a rock-forming mineral.
 Twinning is rare ; cleavages upon the base and orthopinacoid are
 sometimes observed. Tho clino-pinacoidal sections of the mineral
 show the most intense colours : the polarization-colours are magni
  ficent. The following is the analysis :—
                 8i02                                 3fi-16
                 A1203                                22-52
                 Fe203                                  9-33
                 Mn203                                  6-43
                 CaO                                   22-05
                 MgOKaO,Na20                            0-84
                 HaO                                    3-20
                                                     100-53
      The chemist expresses a doubt as to whether the iron exists in
   the stato of sesquioxicle or monoxide. The Author then, alludes to
   the difference of opinion as to the stato of oxidation of iron in the
   Swedish and Alpine piedmontites, and suggests that the Japanese
   mineral supplies a missing link between the two. Tho Japanese
   mineral was originally mistaken for tourmaline, and the rock callod
   Tourmaline-schist by E. Naumann. Although comparatively rare
   both in Piedmont and Sweden, in certain parts of Japan it is so
   abundant as to constitute a rock-forming mineral, whilst as an
   accessory it occurs also in the glaucophano-schist.
       The Author further describes a peculiar epidote, containing iron,
   from the glaucophane-schist, and also a peculiar garnet, occurring in
    rhombic dodecahedra about the size of a pea, which includes many
    other minerals, but no glaucophane. The garnet is of a deep yellow
    colour, and is anisotropic, a circumstance probably due to strain
   from the interposition of other minerals.
        June 23.—Prof. J. W. Judd, F.R.S., President, in the Chair.
       The following communications were read :—
       1. " On Nepheline Rocks in Brazil, with special Reference to the
    Association of Phonolite and Foyaitc." By Orville A. Derby, Esq.,
    F.G.S.
        The Author refers to the phonolites and associated basalts of
    Fernando Noronha, a deep-sea island off the north-eastern shoulder
     of the continent of South America. Nepheline rocks of a somewhat
     different character are abundantly developed on the mainland, and
     under conditions favourable for throwing light on the relations

  288                     Geological Society :—¦•
  existing between the granitic type, foyaite, and the other mem
  bers of the group. There are some mountains near Rio de Janeiro
  composed of these rocks, as is also the peak of Itatiaia, 3000 metres
  high, the loftiest mountain of eastern South America. A cursory
  examination of some of these localities having shown an apparent
  relation between foyaite, phonolite, trachyte and certain types of
  basalt, Mr. Derby determined to visit the Caldas region, where a
  railway under construction gave unusual facilities for examining
  this series. A fine development of foyaite, phonolite and tuff was
  found, associated with several types that have not yet. been met
  with in the other localities. The existence of a leucite basalt was
 recognized.
     The bulk of the paper was devoted to a detailed description of these
 railway-sections, and the following deductions are drawn :—
     1. The substantial identity, as regards mode of occurrence and
 geological age, of the Caldas phonolites and foyaites.
     2. The connexion of the latter through the phonolites with a
 typical volcanic series containing both deep-seated and aerial types
 of deposits.
    3. The equal, if not greater antiquity of the leucite rocks as
 oompared with the nepheline rocks, whother felsitic, as phonolite, or
 granitic as foyaite.
    4. The probable paheozoic age of the whole eruptive series.
    2. " Notes on the Metamorphic Rocks of South Devon." By Miss
Catherine A. Raisin, B.Sc.
    This communication consisted mainly of detailed observations,
supplementary to those published by Prof. Bonney in the Society's
Journal for 1884, on the slaty and metamorphic rocks of South
Devon in the neighbourhood of Salcombe estuary.' In the first part
of the paper details were given of the sections exposed around the
estuary, at Hope Cave to the westward, and in several localities to
the eastward as far as Hall Sands, all confirmative of Professor
Bonney"s views, and showing that the slaty beds to the northward
do not pass into the mica and chlorite schists to the south, but are
separated from the latter by a line of faults.
   Descriptions were then given of microscopic slides from various
parts of the metamorphic rocks. Some of these showed the action
of secondary forces. The effects of lateral pressure in producing
cleavage-planes and a kind of jointing were also commented upon.
   An attempt was also made to determine the succession of chlorite-,
mica- and micaceo-chloritic schists around Salcombe estuary. The
beds appeared to succeed each other in the following order, com
mencing from the northward :—
   1. (a) Interbanded series south of Halwell Wood &c.
       (6) A thick band of chlorite- schist at Scoble and at Snapcs
              Point &c.
   2. (a) Mica- schist north of the side estuary.
       (6) Interbanded series south of the sido estuary.
   3. Mica-schist of Portlemouth Ferry.
   4. Chlorite-schist of Bickerton.

              Notes on the Formation of Coal-seams.               289
   3. " On the Ancient Beach and Boulders near Brannton and
Croyde in North Devon." By Prof. T. M'Kenny Hughes, M.A.,
 F.G.S.
   The Author observes that amongst the raised beaches of S.W.
England we generally find included the sand cliffs of Saunton Down
and Middleborough on the coast west of Barnstaple. These de
posits possess a further interest owing to the occurrence at their
base of large boulders. In 1 866 Mr. Spence Bate, in opposition to
the prevailing view, concluded that the so-called raised beach is the
undestroyed remnant of an extensive district of wind-borne sand
similar to that which now exists on Braunton Burrows. The points
to which attention was invited are as follows :—
   (1) Is this deposit on the southern slope of Saunton Down a
raised beach ?
   (2) Were the above-mentioned boulders carried to their present
position by ice ?
   The paper was fully illustrated by diagrams, showing the relations
of the recent deposit, and by figures showing the mode of occurrence
of three of the most remarkable boulders. The conclusions were :—
(1) That the ancient beach of Saunton Down and Croyde is not a
raised beach in the ordinary acceptation of the term. The top is
subaerial talus, the middle part is blown sand, the base only marine,
and the marine part is not above the reach of the waves of the sea
at its present level. (2) The boulders of granite and felsite which
occur at the base of the ancient beach were transported to their
present position by the waves of the sea. Such as are of local
origin could have reached the sea by the ordinary processes of de
nudation ; such as are possibly of northern origin could have been
carried down the Irish Channel on bergs, and been thrown up by
the sea to their present position at any period subsequent to their
transportation southwards by ice ; but their presence does not imply
any local glaciation.
   4. " Notes on the Formation of Coal-seams, as suggested by evi
dence collected chiefly in the Leicestershire and South Derbyshire
Coal-field." By W. S. Gresley, Esq., F.G.S.
   The Author's principal object in this paper was to bring forward
evidence in opposition to the view now generally accepted that coal-
seams were formed from vegetation growing on the spot.
   He showed that during a very extensive experience he had only
once or twice detected stems passing into a bed of coal and con
nected with the Stigmaria-roots in the underclay. If, as was
generally stated, the Stigmari® were the roots of the trees that
formed the coal, such instances ought to be common. Not only,
however, were they very rare, but the abundance of the Stigmarise was
extremely variable, and these roots, instead of becoming more thickly
matted together in the uppermost part of the underclay, as they
should be if they were roots of the coal-forests, were generally dis
tributed, as a rule, throughout the clay in a manner that showed
    Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 24. No. 148. Sept. 1887.            U

290                       Geological Society.
them to have been in all probability independent organisms. Stig-
marian roots, when found connected with a stem, were more often
on the top of the coal-seam than at the bottom.
   Other reasons assigned for rejecting the hypo thesis that coal-
seams were formed of plants that grew upon the spot were the
occasional absence of underclays, the sharp division between the
coal-seams themselves, and the beds above and below them ; the
distinct lamination of every seam and its division into layers of
different mineral character that are persistent over large areas ; the
presence of foreign bodies in the underclay, and especially of pebbles
and boulders transported from a distance ; the presence of similar
foreign bodies, and occasionally of remains of aquatic mollusca,
fish, &c. in the coal itself ; and the circumstance that many coal-
seams are impregnated with salt, and are associated with beds
containing marine fossils.
   5. " Note on some Dinosaurian Remains in the Collection of A.
Leeds, Esq. Part I. Ornithopsis Leedsii. Part II. Omosaurus, sp."
By J. W. Hulke, Esq., F.E.S., F.G.S.
   6. " Notes on some Polyzoa from the Lias." By Edwin A. Wal-
ford, Esq., F.G.S.
   7. " On the Superficial Geology of the Southern Portion of the
Wealden Area." By J. Vincent Elsden, Esq., B.Sc.
   The Author, after referring to Sir R. Murchison's paper, published
more than thirty years ago, on " The Distribution of the Flint Drift
of the S.E. of England," proceeded to give in detail his observations
on the angular flint-deposits of the Arun, Adur, Ouse, and Cuckmere
basins. He also noticed a sandy or loamy deposit containing angular
fragments of ironstone, and generally a few small angular flints that
occurred on the surface of the Lower Greensand and, to a small
extent, on the Weald Clay. A block of granite, weighing between
5 and 6 lbs., was found on the chalk escarpment at Kilhurst Hill.
   The angular flint-drift occurred mainly on the higher parts of the
area, and was wanting in the river-valleys, where, however, river-
gravels derived from the denudation of the older deposits were abun
dantly developed. This distribution of the angular drift was shown
to be incompatible with the theory of its origin advocated by Sir R.
Murchison and some other geologists, who attributed it to a violent
and transitory current. The Author showed that not only in the
Wealden area, but throughout many of the neighbouring districts,
the angular drift consisted of the undennded remnants of a deposit
formed before the present river-valleys were cut, and that many of
the river-gravels, though newer than the angular drift, were de
 posited when the valleys had been less excavated than they now are.
 This was Mr. Topley's view with respect to the northern portion of
 the Wealden area. Mr. Searles V. Wood's marine theory of the
origin of these gravels was discussed and shown to be refuted by
 their mode of occurrence. It was, moreover, contended that the

             Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.            291
drift, although composed of local materials, was prohably of sub
aqueous origin, and not merely subaerial. The discovery of a granite
boulder might, if confirmed by other discoveries, lead to a modifica
tion of the views generally held as to the physical character of the
area during the glacial period.
   8. " Report on Palseo-botanical Investigations of the Tertiary
Flora of Australia." By Dr. Constantin Baron von Ettingshausen,
For.Corr.G.S.
   9. " On some new Features in Pelanechinus corattinus" By T.
T. Groom, Esq.
   10. " On Boulders found in Seams of Coal." By John Spencer,
Esq., F.G.S.
   The discovery of a boulder weighing 6 lbs., and composed of
granite, in the Gannister or Mountain-Mine seam of the Rossendale
district, at Old Meadows Pit, near Bacup, Lancashire, had led the
Author to call attention to the occasional occurrence of similar
boulders in various parts of Lancashire and Yorkshire. Such
boulders were always isolated, and sometimes imbedded in the seam,
sometimes in its upper surface. They were always waterworn and
rounded, and were composed, so far as had been observed, of granite,
gneiss or quartzite foreign to the district.
   After considering the various suggestions that had been made as
to the means by which such boulders had found their way into the
coal, the Author gave the preference to the action of floating ice,
both because the presence of fragments from a distance would thus
be more readily explained, and because ice-scratched rocks have been
found in situ in the Millstone Grit within three miles of the place
 whence the boulder mentioned was obtained.
        XXXVII. Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
ON THE OCCURRENCE OF ELECTROMOTIVE FORCES IN METAL
   PLATES WHICH ARE TRAVERSED BY A CURRENT OF HEAT
   WHILE PLACED IN THE MAGNETIC FIELD. BY A. VON ET
   TINGSHAUSEN AND W. NERNST.
IN the course of our observations of Hall's phenomenon, we
    were led by certain irregularities to make the following expe
riments.
   A rectangular plate of bismuth about 5 centim. in length, 4
centim. broad, and 2 centim. thick, provided in the longer sides
with two electrodes opposite each other, is brought into the field
of an electromagnet in such a way that the lines of force cut the
plane of the plate at right angles. This is supported by being
clamped at the shorter sides in strips of copper, but protected from
direct contact with the latter by plates of mica.
   When one or the other copper strip is heated, a current of heat
traverses the plate lengthwise. "When the magnetic field of the

 292          Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
 electromagnet is established, a permanent galvanic current is then
 observed in a galvanometer connected with the electrodes of the
 plate, which lie nearly on an isothermal line. The direction of this
 current changes with the direction of magnetization, and with the
 direction of the current of heat in the plate ; if the bismuth is
 heated on both sides, the action of the magnet disappears.
    The electromotive force which produces the current is propor
 tional to the strength of the magnetic field, to the distance of the
 electrodes, probably also to the fall of heat along the plate ; it
 seems independent of the thickness of the plate.
    It was obvious to suppose that the cause of the electromotive force
 might be thermoelectrical : the temperature of the two electrodes
 (the copper wires soldered to the bismuth plates) might have been
 altered under the influence of magnetism. Direct experiments
 with thermoelements, which were placed carefully insulated be
 tween two plates traversed by a current of heat, showed no change
 of temperature in consequence of magnetic action ; nor was there
 any when, instead of electrodes, thermoelements (argentan-copper)
were soldered to the plates ; the electromotive force was also seen
 to be independent of the nature of the electrodes. Hence there is
 no deflection of the heat current in the bismuth plate in conse
 quence of magnetic forces.
    If the electrodes he in the direction of the current of heat, if
they are therefore anisothermal, and if the thermoelectric current
which takes place between them even without a magnetic field is
compensated, then, when the field is produced, an electromotive
force is produced in one or the other direction, but mostly varying
in strength.
   In eight bismuth plates from different sources, the direction of
the " transverse " currents, that is the " thermomagnetic currents "
at right angles to the current of heat has been ascertained to be the
same ; the current flowed in such a direction through the plate
that from the starting point of the current in the plate, to the
starting point of the current produced, we get a motion opposed
to the direction of the current producing the field. Only in
one plate, in preparing which the metal was rapidly cooled, was
there seen a different behaviour ; after melting and slow cooling
this bismuth also came within the above rule.
   As respects magnitude, we observed that using a magnetic field
of the absolute strength 5000 (C.G.S.) in an almost rectangular
plate 5 centim. in the side, and 1-9 millim in thickness, which on
one side was heated by means of a hot copper strip, while the other
side was cooled by ice-water, an electromotive force of -^fa of a volt
was observed.
   The direction of the " longitudinal " electromotive force, which,
as we observed, did not change with the field, was such that the
galvanic current flowed in the plate from the heated to the colder
electrode ; yet here also individual differences seem to prevail.
The longitudinal effect was feebler with the magnetic forces applied

                Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.             293
than the transverse one, yet it increased more rapidly than the
latter with increasing strength of the magnetic field (probably in
proportion to the square).
   For a further investigation we examined more minutely a
bismuth plate which was provided with eight equidistant electrodes
arranged on the periphery of a circle ; all the electrodes were
within the homogeneous magnetic field.
    If we denote their positions byN., S., E., W., N.E., S.W., S.E.,
N.W., the heat current flowed from west to east, and the thermo-
magnetic effect was observed between two opposite electrodes for
two different intensities of the magnetic field (2480 and 4320). By
careful regulation of the flow of heat the galvanometer showed pretty
regular deflections.
    When the thermal stream-lines in the plate were exactly in the
W.E. direction, by connecting the N. and 8. with the galvanometer
 the purely transversal, with the E.W. the longitudinal, and with
 the N.E., S.W., and S.E., N.W., the effect resulting from these
 components was obtained. As, in reality, the above condition is
 not accurately fulfilled the result of a transverse and longitudinal
 effect is always obtained, which is seen in the unequal intensities
 of the currents observed when the direction of the magnetic field is
 reversed ; each individual effect may, as is obvious, be separately
 calculated. "We find thus for the transverse (r) and longitudinal
 (X) effects the following values :—
                         Strength of Field 2480.
                       N.8.         E.W.       N.E..S.W.    N.W., S.E.
       r                142           3           90           96
       X                   3         13           13            11
                         Strength of Field 4320.
        T               245            5         153          163
        X                7-5         42           38           38
    While the ratio of the strengths of field is 1'74, the ratio of the
 transverse effects is respectively 1*73, 1-70, 1-70, 1*70; that of
 the longitudinal on the contrary 2-50, 3-23, 2-92, 3-45—in the
 mean verv near the ratio of the square (3-03) of the strength of
 field.
    We endeavoured to obtain actions of this kind in plates of other
 metals. Hitherto this has only succeeded distinctly with antimony,
 nickel (two specimens) cobalt, iron (two specimens) and steel. No,
 or at any rate uncertain effects are observed with copper, zinc,
 aluminium and palladium. The direction of the transverse current is
 the same with antimony, nickel, and cobalt as with bismuth ; with
 iron and steel, on the contrary, it is reversed, but in all the action is
 considerably weaker. As to the longitudinal effect which must in
 every case exist, we are wanting in certain materials of observation.
    We compared equal large plates of antimony, nickel, and

 294           Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
  cobalt with a bismuth plate by simultaneously heating them on
 one side, and cooling on the other while separated from each other
 by a plate of mica, and placed in the magnetic field. The ratio of
 the thermomagnetic effects referred to Bi=100, were for Sb=5-5,
 for Ni 4-8, and for Co =0-5.
    In how far the observed currents can be brought in connexion
 with Hall's phenomenon must for the present be left undecided.
 We may be allowed to mention that Sb, Co, Fe, and steel have a
 positive rotatory power, Bi, and Ni, on the contrary, a negative
 one, which is in agreement with our own measurements of the
 Hall's phenomenon in the plates in question, although our numbers
 differ greatly from those of Hall.
    If the bismuth plate previously mentioned was traversed by a
 galvanic current, then in order to produce in the same magnetic
 field a Hall's electromotive power of the same strength as the
 thermomagnetic which we observed, it must have an intensity of 15
 amperes, assuming the same intensity in all parts of the plate.
    This phenomenon appears in any case to be ultimately related
to the molecular structure of the metals.—Wiedemann's Annalen,
 No. 10, 1886.
ON THE EXPERIMENTS MADE AT THE INSTANCE OF THE ELECTRO-
     TECHNICAL UNION ON THUNDER-STORMS AND PROTECTION
     AGAINST LIGHTNINO. BY L. WEBER.
    In order to investigate the influence of the efficiency of lightning-
conductors, the author arranged two lightning-conductors, about
6 metres high, which earned the various points, about 5 metres
from each other, and introduced a galvanometer into the earth-
contact. Experiments made with this arrrangement in various
places in the Eiesengebirge, as well as in Breslau and the neigh
bourhood, showed the applicability of the method. Observations
were also made on the increase of potential with the height. A
kite, the conducting-cord of which was connected with a galvano
meter, was allowed to rise to various heights near a detached house
in the vicinity of Breslau, and the following results were obtained :—
Height, in metres .... 45 71          107 140 115 78 41 139
Strength of current.... 29 61         451 1078 627 257 40 1332
   The unit of current is 10 ~9 amperes. At the beginning of the
observations the sky was covered with light cirrostratus clouds ;
towards the end it cleared up. The observations agree with those
of Exner, found by electroscopic means (Beiblalter, vol. xi. p. 292).
Some experiments were also made during the passage of clouds,
which sometimes showed their negative electricity. In thunder
storms the galvanometer shows a momentary agitation, which cor
responds to a return shock in the lightning-conductor. The needle

               Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.            295
then begins to be deflected in the opposite direction with a gradu
ally increasing strength, until after a fresh flash a throw in the
opposite direction is observed. The intensity of the deflection
increases with the proximity of the lightning-flashes.—Beibliitter
dtr Physih, vol. xi. p. 376 ; Electrotechnische Zeitschrift, vol. vii.
p. 445.
     ON THE MELTING-POINT OF ICE AT PRESSURES UNDER ONE
                  ATMOSPHERE. BY B. J. GOOSENS.
    The author finds that when the pressure is reduced from 760 to
5 millim. the melting-point of ice is raised 0-0066°. The determi
nations were made as follows :—
    A glass tube was closed at the bottom by a cork, through
which thermoelements were inserted, so that one set of solder-
ings was inside and the other outside the tube. After the tube
had been filled with water, and placed in a vessel which also con
tained distilled water, the upper end of the tube was connected
 with the air-pump. The water in both vessels was then frozen,
 and as the ice again began to melt, the whole apparatus was brought
 into a large vessel containing lumps of ice. The ice in the interior
kept for several days. If some in the inner was melted all could
be frozen by lowering the pressure. A galvanometer was connected
 with the thermoelements, and readings were made, firstly, when
 there was the same pressure in both vessels ; and, secondly, after
 the pressure in the inner vessel was lowered to 5 millim. ; and
 after waiting until the temperatures were constant.—Arch.Neerland,
 xx. p. 449. Beibliitter der Physilc, No. 7, 1877.
            ON THE THOMSON EFFECT. BY A. BATELLI.
    The experiments were made with cadmium, which is relatively
 homogeneous and shows the phenomenon in particular strength.
 Two perfectly equal rods of pure cadmium 36 centim. in length,
 and 5 millim. in thickness, were covered in the middle and at each
 end for a length of 5 millim. with copal varnish, which resists tem
 peratures over 200°, and does not transmit mercury, and were
 wound with a very thin silk ribbon. The two bars passed through
 two perfectly similar boxes of sheet-iron filled with equal quantities
 of mercury, in which were immersed the middles of the rods.
 Where each end projected from the box thermoelements of thin
 iron and argentan wires were fastened to the rods. The varnished
  ends of the rods were in melting ice, and the unvarnished in a
 steam bath, and were connected there by a thick copper wire.
 The cold ends were connected with the poles of a battery of 2 Bun-
 sen's elements. In the mercury in the two iron boxes (which
 was kept in motion by a stirrer) dipped the two varnished junc
 tions of a thermopile of two iron-argentan elements connected

 296           Intelligence and Miscellaneous* Articles.
 with a sensitive Thomson's galvanometer. By dipping a hot iron
 bar in the mercury box and observing the deflections the masses of
 mercury could be so equalised that their water values were equal ;
 the water value of the boxes could also be determined. If t is the
 intensity of the current, the quantities of heat in the two boxes are
 a P+b i, where 2 bi is twice the Thomson effect for the strength of
 the current i. By inverting the bars their irregularities were also
eliminated.
   The deflection of the galvanometer was observed from 30 to 30
 seconds, every 20 minutes before, during, and after passing the
 current, and the intensity of the latter was observed every minute.
   It was thus found that when the temperatures of the ends pro
jecting from the iron boxes were 63°-5 and 42u-o, and the strengths
of the currents were between 0*3 and 0-5 units (C.G.S.) the Thom
son effect was proportional to the latter. The heat developed in a
second by unit current, at a place with the mean temperature 53°,
whose ends differ by a temperature of 1° C, is about E = 0-00001 1215
thermal units. At higher temperatures a petroleum vapour bath
was used instead of a steam bath, in which the ends of the rods
near the iron boxes were at 124-1 and 92- 7. In this case the
action for the mean temperature 108°-4 was E= 0-000013403.
   On the assumption of Tait that the Thomson effect is proportional
to the absolute temperature (273+53) and (273 + 108-4) the latter
number should be 0-0000 131 21 .
   On heating in boiling petroleum the places near the iron boxes
were at the temperatures 2630-5 and 220c, and for the mean tempe
rature 243°-25 the effect was 0-0000178G, while it should be
0-00001897 on Tait's hypothesis. The observations agree therefore
with this hypothesis.—Atti della B. Ace. di Torino, 22, p. 48, 1886.
Beiblatter der Physik, vol. xi. p. 463.
       ON HYGROMETRIC SUBSTANCES. BY HENRI DUFOUR.
   The author investigated the behaviour of various hygrometric
substances. He denotes by a. the ratio between the aqueous vapour
absorbed and the weight of dry substance (moisture =100); and
by /3 the coefficient of hygrometric expansion, that is, the total
expansion which a bar of unit length undergoes when it has taken
up the maximum aqueous vapour.
      Horn 10 millim. in thickness           a=0-10 /3==0-061
      Gelatine                               a =0-34 /3= 0-108
      Goldbeaters-skin                       a=0-43 /3=0-060
   The last body is what he most recommends.—Arch. d. Gen. [3]
xvi. pp. 197-199, 1886. Beiblatter der Physik, No. 7, 1887.

                                 THE
        LONDON, EDINBURGH, and DUBLIN
 PHILOSOPHICAL                             MAGAZINE
                                 AND
      JOURNAL                    OF       SCIENCE.
                      [FIFTH SERIES.]
                      OCTOBER 1887.
   XXXVIII. On Hot Gases as Conductors of Electricity .
                 By John Buchanan, B.Sc*
                             [Plate VIII.]
THE measurements described below were made in the
       spring of 1886 in the Physical Laboratory of Uni
versity College, London. They were designed with the
object of getting an approximate idea of the magnitude of
the quantities that enter into the phenomena of the discharge
of electricity by a flame.
   The method used was essentially that ordinarily employed
in connexion with the measurement of extremely high re
sistances, viz. by means of a condenser of known capacity
and a quadrant-electrometerf.
   I am not aware that this method has been used before for
measurements connected with hot gases.
   Two flat pieces of platinum-foil (c, figure), 2 5 centim.
square, were placed with their planes nearly parallel and
vertical. They were joined by platinum wires to the re
spective binding-screws A and B of a condenser of 1 micro
farad capacity. The condenser was charged from a battery
of Leclanche cells. A Thomson's quadrant-electrometer,
D, served to indicate the changes in the condenser-potentials
in the usual way, by the motion of a spot of light over a
scale. A gas-flame, reduced to the smallest size compatible
with its existence, was placed between the two pieces of
platinum-foil. The form of the gas-burnor was such that the
  * Communicated by the Author.
  t Clerk Maxwell's ' Electricity and Magnetism,' 2nd ed., vol. i. § 355.
Phil. May. S. 5. Vol. 24. No. 149. Oct. 1887.                 X

298             Mr. J. Buchanan on Hot Gases
gas issued from a very narrow horizontal slit, giving a flame
as nearly "linear" as possible. To protect the flame from
draughts of air, and also to ensure that no electrical dis
turbance could arise from outside influences, the flame and
platinum pieces were surrounded by a metal cylinder, open
at both ends, of about 10 centim. diameter and 36 centim.
high, which was permanently connected to earth by a wire.
The position of the cylinder is indicated by the dotted circle
round c in the figure. The stem of the gas-burner, and the
wires from the pieces of foil passed through holes in the side
of the cylinder without touching it.
   In the first regular experiments that were made the
respective pairs of quadrants of the electrometer were joined
to the binding-screws of the condenser, one pair of quadrants
being as usual connected to earth. The condenser was then
charged ; 4 Leclanches sending the spot of light near to the
end of the scale. The flame being in action, the battery was
disconnected and the scale-readings taken at equal intervals
of time until the spot of light was down to near the zero.
From these readings the rate of " leakage " could be found.
Obviously the range of potentials was very limited.
   For the later experiments, specimens of whose results are
given below, an arrangement was suggested to me by Prof.
G. 0. Foster, F.R.S., which is applicable to much wider
ranges of potential.
                                                     earfh
    The figure gives a diagram of the connexions. The
binding-screw B of the condenser was kept in connexion
with one electrode, Q, of the battery ; the other electrode, P,
with the earth and with one pair of quadrants ; whilst the
other binding-screw, A, of the condenser was connected to
the insulated pair of quadrants during the whole of each set
of observations.
   Before beginning a set of readings, the two pairs of
quadrants of the electrometer were put into connexion with

                    as Conductors of Electricity.                  299
one another and with P ; this charged the condenser. Since
the quadrants were connected, the spot of light stood initially
at zero. The two pairs of quadrants were then disconnected
from each other, and discharge by the flame showed itself on
the electrometer-scale by a motion of the spot of light out
over the scale from the zero.
   Each set of readings had of course to be concluded when
the light moved oft' the scale—that is, when the difference of
potential between the pairs of quadrants had increased to
about that of 4 Leclanches.
   The mean distance between the pieces of platinum-foil was
0*75 centim. ; the height of the flame was approximately
0*4 centim. Readings were made at intervals of 20 seconds,
time being given by the laboratory chronometer.
   There are given in detail in the tables (a), (?>), (c), (d)
below the results of observations, using batteries of 8 and 6
Leclanches respectively. The curves (a), (/3), (7), (8) (Plate
VIII.) are obtained byplotting-out the numbers in the first two
columns of these tables, taking the observed scale-reading as
ordinate and time as abscissa ; the agreement with one another
of the observations is well shown by the smoothness of the
curves. In the tables the columns headed " calculated deflec
tion " are obtained from the equations which were found, by
trial, to suit the curves best. The scale of readings is such
that 134 divisions = 2 volts, nearly.
   To find the constant for the apparatus, leakage was allowed
to go on for an hour without a flame. The potential fell from
715 scale-divisions to 637 in that time.
                                   (a)
     + quadrant insulated.        8 Leclanches = 715 divisions.
                   Deflection.                      Deflection.
      Time.                            Time.
              Observed. Calculated.           Observed. Calculated.
     m s                               m s
      0 0       697          697       4 0      497-5         496
         20     078                      20     484-5
         40     059                      40     470
       1 0      040          640       5 0      457          455
         20     022                      20     444
         40     0045                     40     431
      2 0       588          589       6 0      419          418
         20     571                      20     4075
         40     555                      40     395-5
      3 0       540          540       7 0      384          384
         20     525-5                    20     373
         40     510-5                    40     362-5
                                       8 0      352-5        352-5
                                   X2

300             Mr. J. Buchanan on Hot Gases
   Equation to curve * is
                         y = 697 x 10"08",
t being in minutes.
    — quadrant insulated.       8 Leclanches = 715 divisions.
                  Deflection.                      Deflection.
     Time.                           Time.
             Observed. Calculated.          Observed. Calculated.
    m s                              m s
     0 0        693         693      3 0        506          506
        20      669                    20       489
        40      647                    40       472
      1 0       625         624      4 0        457          456
        20      604                     20      441
        40      583                     40      427
     2 0        563         562      5 0        412          411
        20      543                     20      897
        40      523                     40      384
                                      6 0       370          370
                                        20      357
   Equation to curve y8 is
                        y- 693 xlO"'0454',
t being in minutes.
                                   w
    — quadrant insulated.        6 Leclanches = 540 divisions.
                  Deflection.                      Deflection.
     Time.                           Time.
             Observed. Calculated.           Observed. Calculated.
     m s                             m s
      0 0      522          522       5 0     "299           299
        20     504-5                    20     287
        40     487                      40     275-5
      1 0      470-5        470       6 0      265           265
        20     455                      20     254-5
        40     437-5                    40     244
      2 0      421          421       7 0      234           234
        20     406                      20     225
        40     391-5                    40     215-5
      3 0      378          377       8 0      207           207
        20     364                      20      198-5
        40     349-5                    40      191
      4 0      336          336       9 0       183          182
        20     324
        40     311
   Equation to curve 7 is
t being in minutes.

                     as Conductors of Electricity.                   301
    + quadrant insulated.          6 Leclanches = 540 divisions.
                     Deflection.                     Deflection.
     Time.                               Time.
               Observed. Calculated.           Observed. Calculated.
     m 8                                 m g
      0 0        525           525       6 0     303          303
        20       509                       20    293-5
        40       4945                      40    285
      1 0        480                     7 0     277
        20       406                       20    2(58-5
        40       452                       40    260-5
      2 0        438-5         435       8 0     253           254
        20   .   426                       20    246
        40       413                       40    239
      3 0        4O0-5         397       9 0     232-5         233
        20       388                       20    22(5
        40       377                       40    219-5
      4 0        365           362      10 0     214           215
        20       354                       20    208-5
        40       343-5                     40    202-5
      5 0        332-5         331      11 0     197
        20       322                       20    192
        40       312                       40    187
                                        12 0     182-5         182-5
   Equation to curve 8 is
                       y = 525 x io-M13«+ 0002S<3,
t being in minutes.
   It will be observed, both from the tables and from the
curves, that the rate of leakage is more rapid when the
insulated quadrant is charged negatively than when charged
positively.
   Taking the approximate rate of leakage from the results in
tables (a) and {d), and subtracting the rate without the
flame, we have :—
Mean logarithmic rate per minute = £("037 + "0414) —"0014,
Mean logarithmic rate per second = "00063,
and        1 microfarad = 10-16 (C.G.S.) units ;
                   log.10 = 2-303 ;
                                      1015
     •'• " *»sisi»™ " = -00063x2-303 <aGLS-> ^
                              = 689 xlO16 (C.G.S.) units.
                  ,,          = 689 x 106 ohms.
   In the same way, using the results from tables (b) and (c),
we get

302          Prof. Trowbridge and Mr. Hutchins on
                                   1015
         " Herirtuce" = .00073x2.303 (CG-S.) units.
                  „        = 595 x 1018 (C.G.S.) units.
                  „        = 595 x 10s ohms.
    Borne measurements in which brass knobs were used instead
 of the platinum-foils yielded results similar to those just
 given. The flame was, however, of a rounded conical form,
 about 5 millim. high. The knobs were each l-7 centim. in
 diameter, the distance between their nearest points being
8 millim. A Daniell cell gave 65 divisions of a deflection on
the electrometer-scale.
    The results of the observations were plotted-out as described
 above, and the equations to the curves found by trial. Taking,
as before, y to represent the reading on the electrometer-scale
 at the time t, in minutes, I find :—
    With the + pole of the battery to earth, in two different
measurements,
                      y = 315 < 10-039"-00118",
                     y = 340xl0-039,-°0092'2.
   The negative pole put to earth gives
                     y = 616 5 x 10
    These quantities are of the same dimensions as those given
above, and need not be discussed further here.
   Gordon's College, Aberdeen.
          August 1887.
      XXXIX. Oxygen in the Sun. By Professor John
               Trowbridge and C. C. Hutchins*.
 SINCE the time it was announced that hydrogen existed
       in great abundance in the sun's atmosphere and was a
 controlling element in its economy, there have been no more
interesting questions in solar physics than those touching
the presence of other gases in the sun's body and atmo
sphere; and when we consider the important part that oxygen
plays in terrestrial affairs, the great variety of combinations
into which it enters, and its high constituent percentage in
the composition of the earth itself, a peculiar interest, second
to that of no other element perhaps, attaches to its probable
presence in the sun.
    The investigation of the spectrum of oxygen as a research
by itself, and as connected with its presence in the sun, has
   * From an advance proof from the Proceedings of the American
Academy of Arts and Sciences, vol. xxiii. Conimnuicated by Professor
J. Trowbridge, of Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass., U.S.

                         Oxygen in the Sun.                    303
occupied many eminent physicists ; but the fact that the
latest and most complete investigations have left the minds of
scientific men still in doubt, has led the writers to bike up
the question again with more perfect and powerful apparatus
and increased facilities, in order, if possible, to add something
to the knowledge of the subject.
     The question of the existence of oxygen in the sun was
first seriously investigated, we believe, by Dr. Henry Draper,
who published in the American Journal of Science for 1877
and 1879, and in foreign journals, papers accompanied by
reproductions of his photographs. Dr. Draper was firmly
persuaded of the existence of oxygen in the sun's atmosphere,
and based this belief upon the apparent coincidence of the
 lines of oxygen taken in air with certain bright spaces in the
 sun's spectrum which appeared upon his photographs.
     Prof. John Christopher Draper published a paper in the
 ' American Journal of Science ' for 1878, in which he stated
 his conviction that oxygen exists in the sun ; but his line of
 argument was just the reverse of that of Dr. H. Draper.
 While the latter apparently proved the existence of oxygen
 in the sun by the coincidence of its bright lines with bright
 spaces in the solar spectrum, the former was led to believe
 that the bright oxygen lines coincided with dark lines in the sun.
     Both observers abandoned the old method of eye observa
  tion, and took advantage of the improvements in photography
  to record the oxygen lines upon a sensitive plate. Dr. H.
  Draper was led to abandon Geissler's tubes filled with oxygen,
  and to employ the electric spark in common air, on account
  of the greater brilliancy of the lines, while Prof. J. C. Draper
  still adhered to tubes filled with rarefied oxygen. The
  oxygen lines had been mapped by previous observers, notably
  by Thalen, and Schuster had shown that there were four
  spectra of oxygen which could be produced under varying
  conditions of temperature and pressure.
      The photographs of Dr. Henry Draper's oxygen spectrum,
  together with the juxtaposed solar spectrum, were submitted
  to the French Academy of Sciences in Paris, Juno 23, 1879,
  by M. Cornu. From the remarks of M. Faye we make the
  following extract :—
      " Dr. H. Draper has, however, succeeded in discovering
   oxygen, not in the chromosphere, but in the photosphere,
   where it discloses itself by bright lines. It is obvious that
   this gas is dissociated at a depth, and is immediately taken
   up by multiple combinations in the region and at the tempe
   rature of the brilliant surface. I see in these facts the hope
   of a confirmation, and above all of an extension, of the views
   I have put forth on the constitution of the sun ; but what

304         Prof. Trowbridge and Mr. Hutchins on
ever may be the fate that the progress of spectrum analysis
 reserves to them, I express here my admiration for the
 discovery of Mr. Draper, and I hope that his results, so well
 confirmed by the photographic proofs that our learned mem
 ber, M. Gornu, has shown the Academy, will meet with no
 delay in being universally accepted by competent judges."
    The opinion thus expressed by so eminent an authority as
 M. Faye testifies to the strength of the evidence brought
 forward by Dr. Draper. With the exception of Prof. John
 C. Draper, physicists, in so far as they have expressed their
 views, have generally accepted the hypothesis of Dr. Draper.
No one, to our knowledge, has critically examined the
 hypothesis of bright lines in the solar spectrum.
    The reader of Dr. H. Draper's account of his experiments
will remember the difficulties he encountered in obtaining an
air-spectrum of sufficient brightness to record itself upon the
photographic plate. The time that has elapsed since his
 work does not seem to have made those difficulties less, and,
in spite of all our ingenuity has been able to devise, we have
been practically confined to taking the spark in free air or
oxygen at atmospheric pressure, notwithstanding the broad
and hazy character of the lines under these conditions.
   Not to record a long list of failures extending over several
months, we will briefly describe the arrangements in their
final form.
   An alternating current dynamo driven at 2000 revolutions
per minute was connected to a commutator of four segments
upon a fixed spindle, around which revolved two pairs of
brushes. The result of this combination was that the current
was very frequently and sharply interrupted. This interrupted
current was used to excite three large quantity-coils connected
in series. From two to twelve jars were employed as a con
denser to the secondary current. The spark was taken
between two stout rods of aluminium placed immediately in
front of the slit, and the spark passed between them with a
deafening rattle, and gave about the light of two candles.
We tried Dr. Draper's device of a soapstone compressor for
the spark, but in our hands the walls of the soapstone near
the spark melted down, and formed a conducting surface over
which the current passed.
   The photographic apparatus is the large instrument of
Professor Rowland,—a concave grating with ruled surface
6x2 inches, mounted upon an iron girder 23 feet long,
moving upon two tracks at right angles, as has been previ
ously described by him and others. Sunlight is introduced
by a heliostat with mirror silvered on first surface, and an
image of the sun formed on the slit by means of a quartz lens

                        Oxygen in the Sun.                    305
of five feet focus. The method of working with the apparatus
so arranged has been as follows.
   The points of aluminium being permanently fixed in front
of the slit, sunlight is introduced, the camera brought to focus
once for all, and set to any required wave-length upon a con
venient scale. The photographic plate is then placed in the
camera, and a shutter immediately in front is set to expose
the upper half of the plate. Exposure for the sun is then
made ; the sunlight is then shut out, and the shutter moved to
cover that part of the plate already exposed, and the lower
half exposed. The spark is then started and worked from 15
to 30 minutes. In addition to the spectrum of lines there is
a considerable continuous spectrum, which after a time causes
fogging of the plates ; so there does not seem to be any gain
in an exposure of more than half an hour. The feebleness of
the air-lines can be judged of when we state that, with the
same plate, breadth of slit, &c, we get a metallic spectrum in
the arc in ten seconds, strongly photographed. There was
sufficient iron present in the electrodes as impurity to give the
strongest iron-lines feebly, and these have been of use in deter
mining that no displacement had happened, although, from the
nature of the arrangements, such disturbance could hardly occur.
   On the negative produced as above indicated the two
spectra lie exactly edge to edge, like a vernier and scale, and
are in the best possible position for the accurate determination
of the position of the air-lines. The original plan contem
plated a determination of the wave-lengths of all the air-lines
throughout the entire spectrum ; but persistently bad weather
and other causes have compelled the postponement of the
completion of this work, though we are now able to give it
complete from wave-length 3740 to wave-length 5030.
   The photographic map of the solar spectrum of Professor
Rowland has made easy what would otherwise have been an
undertaking of extreme labour and difficulty. The best of
engraved maps of the violet region of the spectrum to beyond
F are comparatively worthless. Even on the elaborate map
of Vogel, the result of years of labour, it is difficult to recog
nize with certainty other than the more prominent lines, and
you never feel quite sure of your positions ; but we turn to the
map of Rowland with the certainty of finding every line in
its true order and magnitude, so that what was formerly most
difficult has now become very simple, and the position of any
well-defined air or metallic line can be read directly, by com
parison of the photograph with the map, to the tenth of a
wave-length.
   We here give a table of wave-lengths as determined from
our photograph of the sun and air spectra :—

   306         Frof. Trowbridge and Mr. Hutchins on
3749-80 Strong, agrees.  4105-04   Strong.             4327-60 Very faint.
3755*35                  4105-21        |»             4328 42
3830 60 Faint and"broad. 4109-76   Very strong.        4330-37
3839 275 Dim and broad.  4011-01   Very faint.         4331-20
3842-30 Verv faint.      4112-16           »»          4332-40 Sharp.
3843 00                  4119-36   Fairly strong.      4336-77
3850-70 Faint.           4120-46   Faint.              4345-52 Strong.
3857-40                  4121-52                       4347-47 Faint.
3863 80                  4121-56                       4347 94 Strong.
3864-90                  4123-82                       4349-30
3882-45 Strong.          413282    Faint-              435140
3893-50 Faint.           4133-79                       4353-70
3894-95                  4145-87                       4356-62 Faint.
389640                   414742                        4302 90
3896-90                  4151-92                       4365 40 Faint,
3900-975 Sharp.          415357    May agree.          436692 Strong.
3902-20 Very faint.      4155-42   Faint.              436960 Faint
3906 00 Sharp.           4156-79                       437140
391230 Fairly strong.     416472   Faint,              4379-70
3919-25 Strong, agrees.   4166-72      ii              4381-50
 3935- 10 Very faint.     4169-47   Agrees.            4385-30 Very faint.
3936-90 Faint.            4172-12                      4385-40
 3938-80                  417572    Band.              4386-50 Nebulous.
 3939-80                  417792    Very faint.        4396 30 Faint.
 3940-70                  4179-92   Faint band.        4401-22
 3941 40                  4185-32   Very strong,        4415 00 Strong, agrees.
 3942-48 Sharp.           4190-00       ti              4417-17
 3946-20                  419377    Very faint.         442100 Faint.
 3948 10 Very faint.      4198-72                       442600
 3949-(K){Sha^emay        4199-22   May agree.          4430 04
                          4202 12                       4431 90 ( ^er^ oroac*
 3951-45                  4205-72   Very faint.                  { h:n»l.
 3954 85 Strong.          4206-92   Band.               4434-27 Sharp.
 3956175 Strong, agrees. 4209 1 2   Very faint.         4439-47 Broad dim band.
 3958 10 Faint.           421492                        4443 00       ii    ii
 3958-90                  4223- 17  Faint on band, 4447 09 Very strong.
 3959-975 Sharp.          4224-92       »        »»     4452-40    Sharp.
 3963-70                  4225-92                       445600 Faint and sharp.
 3968-70                  4228-52   Band.               4459-90 Faint.
 3973-60 Strong.          4236-67                       4465-40 Sharp,
 3981-40                  4241-92                       4466 00       ii
 3982-97 Faint.           424902                        4468-02 Very faint.
 3992-87 Sharp, agrees. 4253-42      Very faint.        4469-50
 3995-10 Very strong.     4266-32    Faint.             4472-90
                          4271-22                        447787 Broad and faint.
 3998-81 p^*-" 4274-82               Very faint.         4481-87 Sharp.
 4008-39                  4277-90    Faint.              4487-94
 4011-34 Faint.           4279 90    Fairly strong.      448990 Faint.
 4035-34 Band.             4282-40   Faint,              4496-97 Sharp.
 4041 39 Band.             4291-90       it              449895 Faint.
 4066-84 Faint.            4303-80   Very faint.         4503 05 Fairly strong.
 4070-24 Strong,  may      4305-67            ii         4507-72
            agree.         430987    Faint and sharp. 4511-85 Sharp.
 4072-34                   4312-72       ii         *i 4520-50 / Strong, may
 407619                    4315-52                                [ agree.
  4078-83 Faint, agrees.   4317-20   Strong.             4544-50 Fairly strong.
  4085-24                  4319-50       ii              4565-97    Sharp.
  4086-84                  4322-80 f Faint, may          457202 Sharp, agrees.
  4088-64 Faint.                   [ agree.              457750 Sharp.
  409309                   4323 90    Very faint.        4578-55
  4097-49                  4325 90    Agrees.            4582-32

                            Oxygen in the Sun.                              307
4533 15 Very strong.     467640 (Faint'may         4822-12 Faint
458745 Sharp.                      [ agree.        4825- 12 Faint, may agree.
4588-05                  4681-10 Very faint.       4842 00 Faint but sharp.
4588-92 Very faint        4f)8240                  4863-92       i,      i»
4589-40                   4687-15                  4877-70 Faint.
4590-00                   4688 80                  4878-80 Very faint
4590-95 jStrong- ma>'     469140                   4879-90
         I agree.         4694 15 Strong.          4891-27
4592-00                   4695- 15 Faint.          4894-90
4592-95 Strong.           4696-70 Very faint.      4898-70
 4596-20                  4699-40 Broad and faint. 4906-77
 4601-37 Very strong.     4700-40 Faint.           4907-67
 4607-20                  4701-65    >i            4913-69 Sharp.
 4609-45 fSharP' mBy      4703 02 Agrees.          491512 Sharp, but faint
         I agree.         4705-42 Fairly strong.   4916-86 Sharp.
 4612-75 Faint.           4710-20                  4936 86 Baud.
 4614-05 Strong, agrees.  4712-87 Very faint.      4940 85 Sharp.
 4621-42 Strong.          4719-92                  494501
 4630-73 Very strong.     473127                   4945-81
 4634-00 Sharp.           4733-95                  4950-21
 4638-90 Strong.           4740-20                 495141 Nebulous band.
 4640-75 Rather faint.     4744 20                 4953-85 Sharp, agrees.
 4641-90 Fairly strong.    4753-82 Sharp.          4955-16
 4643-45 Strong.           4760-07                 4960-16
 4645-40 Faint.            4763 82                 49(59-85
 4649-25 Strong.           477182                  4972-85
 4651-02 Fairly strong.    477507                  497990
 4654- 10 Faint.           478262 Very strong.     4983-06 | SharP' may
 4654-85                   4788-27 Very faint.               { agree.
 4655-90 Faint band.       4791-32 Sharp, agrees.  4993-95 Faint.
 4658 05 Very faint.       4798-97 Very faint,     499760
 4659-60                   4800-82      ii         499931 Agrees.
 4665-70 Faint             4802-37 Very strong.    5001-55 Faint.
 4667-55                   4808-94 Very faint.     501106 Sharp, agrees.
 4671-65                   481002 Faint.           5012-50 Faint
 4672-30                   4811-92                 501855 May agree.
 4673-30 Very faint        4813-52                 5022 95 \1< Faint,  may
 4674-95 jFa^imay          4816-60 Very strong.                   agree.
          ^ agree.       1 4820-90 Faint.           5033 85 Very faint
      In regard to the accuracy that may be expected of the above
   positions, we feel sure that few of them are wrong by more
   than a tenth of a wave-length, and these are of the class
   " Very faint," or " Broad and nebulous." The better defined
   lines we believe to be correct to within less than the above
   amount. The method of comparison we have used admits of
   much greater accuracy tban this, but the ill-defined character
   of the air-lines puts a limit to their accurate placing. Com
   pared with Thalen's positions, they should be credited with
   ten times the accuracy at least. Some of ThaleVs bands are
    resolved into two or more in our instrument.
       Prof. John C. Draper projected his spectra upon a scale of
    wave-lengths by means of a stereopticon—a method which
    does not inspire confidence in his results, when we consider
    the distortion produced by projecting-Ienses.
       The scientific world seems largely to have accepted the

 308         Prof. Trowbridge and Mr. Hutchins on
wave-lengths of Angstrom and Thal^n as final. One eminent
 authority speaks of them as the " ne plus ultra " of spectro
scopic accuracy ; and any attempt to revise or correct them may
be looked upon as presumptuous. However, we believe the
time has arrived when the whole of ThaleVs work on metallic
 spectra must be re-examined. It is safe to say that he has
 tabulated not more than one line in many metals where
 several exist, and his positions are occasionally wrong by as
 much as two wave-lengths.
    As yet no approach to the accuracy with which the solar
 spectrum has been delineated has been attempted in metallic
spectra—a remarkable fact, when we consider that the chief
interest that attaches to the study of the solar spectrum is in
its connexion with spectra of terrestrial elements.
    The test of the existence of oxygen in the sun is the coinci
 dence of the bright lines of the spectrum of oxygen with
 bright lines or with dark lines of the solar spectrum. If the
bright lines of any metallic vapour formed in the electric arc
 or the electric spark coincide with the dark lines of the solar
 spectrum which is photographed directly above the spectrum
 of the metal on the same sensitive plate, the evidence is usually
 considered conclusive in regard to the existence of the metal
in the sun. In the case of iron, where hundreds of lines of
the metal coincide with dark lines in the solar spectrum, not
only in exact position but in general grouping and character,
the evidence cannot be doubted by any one who has carefully
examined it. When a majority of the lines of any metal
coincido with dark lines in the solar spectrum under high
dispersion, not only in position but in grouping, while a few
 of the metal lines have no representatives in the solar spec
 trum, there is a probability that the corresponding lines
 wanting in the sun have been obliterated by superposed lines
or bands of other metals. In our paper " On the Existence
of Carbon in the Sun," we shall call attention to a case of
such obliteration. It is probable, also, that the non-appear
ance of certain lines in the sun may be due to certain con
ditions of temperature. We shall discuss this point more
fully in the paper on Carbon, above referred to.
   The same remarks apply to the coincidence of the lines of
any element with the supposed bright spaces in the sun. The
value of the test of coincidence increases with the number
of coincidences. If an element has only two or three lines,
and these two or three agree in position with dark lines in
the solar spectrum, the evidence of the existence of the
element in the sun is not conclusive. It is supported, how
ever, if there is any striking peculiarity in the lines of the

                       Oxygen in the Sun.                   309
element which is reproduced in the corresponding lines in the
solar spectrum. Thus the nebulous character of the lines of
magnesium is perfectly reproduced in the corresponding lines
in the solar spectrum. The test of coincidence, therefore, re
quires primarily a normal spectrum, and the highest possible
dispersion. The earlier observers were limited to instruments
of small dispersion, and the entire number of lines observed
in the solar spectrum was small compared with that given by
the best modern apparatus. The chances for an apparent
coincidence were therefore much greater, and evidence of a
very misleading character could be obtained.
   In Dr. H. Draper's published photograph, the coincidence
of the greater part of the oxygen lines with bright bands in
the solar spectrum is quite striking; and it is not a matter for
surprise that he was led to conclude the connexion between the
two spectra to be a physical one, and to announce the existence
of oxygen in the sun as proved. Instances are not infrequent
where instrumental imperfection or lack of power has led to
results unsupported by later and more powerful research.
Witness the spots of Venus of the older observers. Now
 when we apply to the spectra of the sun and oxygen a dis
persion and definition that show the minute detail of each, the
" bright bands " at once vanish, or no longer appear as such,
and all the apparent connexion between them and the oxygen
lines disappears also. The bright bands of Dr. H. Draper's
spectrum are found to be occupied by numerous dark lines,
of various degrees of intensity ; but the hypothesis of Prof.
J. C. Draper, that these are the true representatives of the
oxygen lines, is rendered untenable by the lack of any syste
 matic connexion between the two. It happens quite fre
 quently that an oxygen line falls centrally upon the space
 between two dark lines of the solar spectrum, but not more
 frequently than we might expect as a matter of chance, when
 we consider the vast number of lines and spaces ; and the
 fact that the spaces are no brighter than the surrounding
 background of the solar spectrum would not seem to permit
 of their interpretation as bright lines.
    The subject of bright lines in the solar spectrum is one
 upon which men will probably differ, and we have sought
 information upon it. Of course there is no a priori reason
 why such bright lines should not exist, as they do in many
 stars ; but we have photographed the sun's spectrum every
 day that the sun has shone for nearly five months, without
 finding a line that could with certainty be pronounced
 brighter than its neighbours ; and it must be admitted that
 the photograph is the best of photometers in such a case.

310           Prof. Trowbridge and Mr. Hutchins on
    In regard to the other three spectra of oxygen of Schuster
we have nothing to say ; but so far as concerns the spark
spectrum in air and the solar spectrum from wave-lengths
3749*8 to 5033*85 we can safely affirm that there is no
physical connexion between them.
           XL. On the Existence of Carbon in the Sun.
     By Professor John Trowbridge and C. C. Hutchins*.
FROM the presence of absorption-bands in the solar spectrum
        at high altitudes, Captain Abney has been led to believe
in the existence of certain hydrocarbons between the earth and
the sun ; and Siemens's theory of the conservation of solar
energy depends upon the supposed existence of carbon vapour
in interplanetary space. It is not our purpose to discuss
Abney's observations', or the truth of Siemens's hypothesis.
We wish to call attention to the remarkable character of the
carbon spectrum, formed by the Voltaic arc in air between
carbon terminals ; and to draw attention to the evidence
presented by the juxtaposed solar spectrum of the existence
of carbon in the sun.
   In our early experiments the carbon terminals between
which the Voltaic arc was formed were heated several hours,
while a stream of chlorine gas was passed over them. This
operation was not entirely successful in removing metallic
impurities. Subsequently we discovered that the spectra
of these impurities could be readily distinguished from the
marked fluted carbon spectrum, and we therefore employed
the ordinary compressed carbon sticks employed in electric
lighting.
   For our work the nicest adjustment of slit was necessary,
in order that no displacement of spectrum lines could possibly
occur when the oarbon spectrum was photographed fh juxta
position with the solar spectrum. This was accomplished by
the use of a slit, the jaws of which opened equally.
    One of Rowland's concave gratings, of 21 feet 6 inches in
curvature and 14,000 lines to the inch, was employed. In
order to avoid any possible displacement of the photographic
camera during the operation of photographing the carbon
spectrum immediately below the solar spectrum, a drop-
shutter was arranged directly in front of the sensitive plate,
the movement of which was independent of any movement
   * From an advance proof from the Proceedings of the American
Academy of Arts and Sciences, vol. xxiii. Communicated by Professor
J. Trowbridge, of Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass., U.S.

              the Existence of Carbon in the Sun.           311
of the camera. Preliminary experiments showed us the
importance in this work of employing a spectroscope of great
dispersion and of fine definition, giving also a normal spec
trum. The use of a prism-spectroscope would undoubtedly
have masked the phenomenon we have observed. For our
purposes, therefore, Rowland's apparatus was peculiarly
advantageous.
    Our experiments led us to conclude that there is positive
evidence in the solar spectrum of the existence of carbon in
the sun. Before giving an account of our experiments in
detail, a few observations may not be considered out of place.
    One who studies the solar spectrum by itself, and who has
had no experience in the formation and observation of metallic
spectra, is apt to regard the dark lines in the solar spectrum
as fixed in character and condition. A line which is seen by
one observer, and not by another, is generally regarded as
a terrestrial line formed by absorption in the earth's atmo
 sphere. Certain lines are well known to be due to the terres
trial absorption, as can be easily proved by their appearance
 when the sun is observed at sunset, when the rays of light
 have to penetrate a greater thickness of the earth's atmosphere
 than at midday. The shifting layers of vapour in the sun's
 atmosphere also may, in certain cases, obliterate or strengthen
 certain lines of a metal. To understand this it is only
 necessary to extend the reasoning of the conservation of
 energy to the subject. It is a common lecture experiment
 to reverse the metallic lines by passing the rays of light pro
 duced by the vapour of the element through a layer of vapour
 colder than that of the source of the rays. The energy of
 the rays is thus absorbed in heating the colder layer. When
 the temperature of the vapour is increased, and becomes
 equal to that of the source, no reversal takes place. Thus,
 on the sun's surface the conditions for a reversal may be
 wanting at certain times, and faint lines may become bright.
 Their brightness may not be sufficient to affect the general
 illumination of the solar spectrum of which they form a part.
 Conditions may arise, moreover, in which the temperature of
 the reversing vapour may be called critical—at such a
 temperature that the faint reversal is sufficient to extinguish
 the bright line of a metal without producing a well-defined
  dark line. At certain epochs, also, the temperature of the
  vapour of any element in the sun may be higher than at
  other times ; and certain lines may thus appear which are
  wanting when the temperature falls. One is forced to these
  conclusions in observing the conditions under which the vary
  ing character of metallic spectra are produced. For instance,

312         Prof. Trowbridge and Mr. Hatching on
we have caused the rays from iron vapour to traverse a long
and dense layer of iron vapour, and have observed that the
strength of the lines and the number of reversals have been
largely increased. In another experiment, the lower carbon
of the electric lamp we employed occupied the centre of an
electro-magnet. This was accomplished by passing the
carbon through a hollow iron cone, and surrounding the
latter by layers of wire, through which the electric current
employed in generating the light passed. In this case the
electric arc was spread out at right angles to the pole of the
magnet, into a fan-like, intensely hot flame, which roared
loudly, and which rarefied, so to speak, the iron vapour
between the carbon terminals. The strength of the lines and
the number of reversals were diminished under this new
condition.
   Another phenomenon may happen. When an excess of
the vapour of one metal floats over or is mixed with that of
another, the lines of one metal are superimposed upon those
of another in the solar spectrum, and the stronger spectrum
of one element may easily obliterate the weaker spectrum of
another. Thus we have succeeded in completely obliterating
the fluted spectrum of carbon in the green and blue, by
photographing upon it the spectrum of iron, of nickel, and
of cerium. A species of composite photograph was thus ob
tained. It is possible that in the future Galton's ingenious
method of composite photography may be applied to the solar
spectrum ; and by a judicious selection of photographs of the
elements, a composite photograph may be obtained which will
closely resemble portions of the solar spectrum, and will
enable us to judge of the composition of the reversing layers
of the sun.
   To the varying conditions which we have thus outlined are
due, we believe, the disappearance in the sun's spectrum of
the marked fluted spectrum of carbon in the green and blue
portions.
   A careful examination of the fluted spectrum of carbon,
however, with the juxtaposed solar spectrum, discloses a
remarkable fact : while traces of obliteration of the evidence
of carbon vapour are seen, yet the general character of the
lines in the solar spectrum immediately juxtaposed with the
fluted spectrum of carbon near H lead us to believe that
there is unmistakable evidence of the existence of carbon
vapour in the sun. When the arrangement of the fine lines
of the spectrum of carbon is plotted as a curve, and that of
the dark lines in the solar spectrum immediately above the
carbon spectrum is also plotted, the two curves have a

               the Existence of Carhon in the Sun.          313
remarkable similarity in character, running with a slight
convexity toward one axis.
   In the first fluting at wave-length 3883*7 within the limit
of ten wave-lengths, over 28 of the spaces between the fine
bright lines of the flutings coincide with dark lines im
mediately in juxtaposition in the solar spectrum. When we
consider that the progressive arrangement of these lines is
exactly the same Iwth in the spectrum of carbon and that of
the sun, we cannot believe that this coincidence is the result
of chance. On examining the spectrum of carbon in the
region near H still further, a remarkable number of coinci
dences of the spaces between the bright lines of the carbon
spectrum with dark lines in the solar spectrum will be ob
served. We are led, therefore, to conclude that the fluted
spectrum of carbon is an example of the reversal of the lines
of a vapour in its own vapour. Fluted spectra occur at com
paratively low temperatures. When carbon is ignited, we
have at first a continuous spectrum. When the temperature
increases and the carbon is volatilized, fluted spectra occur,
which consist of interruptions of the continuous spectrum by
fine line reversals occurring in harmonic order. The same
phenomenon can be observed in the spectrum of iron lines :
through the centre of an iron line, when a sufficient amount
of iron vapour surrounds the Voltaic arc in which iron is
volatilized, reversal lines are always seen. Now if the iron
lines were arranged in regular order, the reversals would
also be in like regular order, and would coincide with similar
reversals in the solar spectrum. Assuming the conditions at
the sun's surface* to be the same as those we have in the
Voltaic arc when carbon is volatilized, the character of the
carbon spectrum should exactly agree with the character of
the solar spectrum juxtaposed. This is found to be true to a
remarkable degree in comparing portions of the solar spectrum
with portions of the fluted spectrum of carbon beginning at
wave-length 3883-7.
   Our hypothesis leads us to conclude, that, at the point of
the sun's atmosphere where carbon is volatilized, so as to pro
duce the peculiar arrangement of reversals observed, the
temperature of the sun approximates to that of the Voltaic
arc.
    Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 24. No. 149. Oct. 1887.        Y

                               [   314    ]
XLI. On Expansion and Contraction with Rise and Fall of
   Temperature in Wires under Elongating Stress. By J. T.
   Bottomlby, M.A., F.R.S.E., F.C.S.*
                                [Plate IX.]
AT the Glasgow Meeting of the British Association in
        1876 a committee was appointed for the purpose of
initiating secular experiments on the elasticity of wires; the
place of the experiments being the tower of the University of
Glasgow. From time to time reports have been presented to
the British Association on the subject of these wires ; but a
few words respecting them will help to introduce and to ex
plain the bearings of the present short communication.
   In order to test the permanence of wires under long con
tinued pulling stress, three pairs of wires —gold, platinum,
and palladium, were hung up, ten years ago, in a great iron
tube about 15 metres long, erected for the purpose. These
pairs are loaded, at the lower extremity, one with a heavy
load about half the breaking weight, and the other with a
light load less than one tenth of the breaking-weight of the
wire ; and from time to time comparisons as to length are
made between the two wires of each pair, a special katheto-
meter and proper marks on the wires being used for this
purpose.
   The observations on the suspended wires are made at differ
ent times of the year ; and it is not possible to choose times
for the observations such that the temperature shall be always
the same ; nor is it even possible to be sure that the tempera
ture from top to bottom of the great tube is approximately
uniform, though probably the two wires of each pair are
almost accurately at equal temperatures, compared from point
to point along their lengths.
   It is consequently desirable, for the purpose of being able
to interpret the meaning of these observations, to ascertain
whether there is any perceptible difference in the expansi
bility of the same wire under small and great elongating
stresses. The experiments described in this paper were
undertaken with this object.
   A tube of tin-plate (Plate IX. fig. 1), about 5 centimetres
in internal diameter and G metres long, has been erected ver
tically, being supported with the help of brackets (as shown
in the figure) in a convenient position, close to a staircase by
means of which access can easily be had to the top of the
tube. Within this tube two wires, cut from the same hank,
  • Communicated by the Author, having been read before Section A of
the British Association at its recent Meeting in Manchester.

      Expansion and Contraction in Wires under Stress.        315
are hung side by side from the same top support ; the support
being a brass plate with small holes drilled in it through which
the wires are drawn and into which they are soldered. The
brass plate just mentioned closes the top of the tube loosely ;
and it is closed at the bottom also, except for small apertures
through which the wires pass perfectly freely. A plentiful
supply of steam from the University heating-apparatus enables
me to raise the temperature of the whole tube in two or three
minutes to the condensing-point of steam ; and a tube (shown
in the figure) carries away the condensed water.
   The wires which I have used up to the present time have
been fine copper wires, about No. 34, "008 inch in diameter
(similar in size to the wires used in the secular experiments in
the tower) ; and, as in secular wires, ono of them carries about
half its breaking-weight, the other something loss than one
tenth. The weights are rectangles of thin lead ; and each has
little feet of brass wire which rest, very lightly against oppo
site sides of a vertical glass plate (marked p p in fig. 1). This
glass plate prevents the lead rectangles from turning round or
getting into torsional oscillation.
    Before describing the measuring-apparatus, it will be con
venient for me to say a few words as to the requirements,
and as to a difficulty which is met with in carrying out the
experiments. The wires having been suspended as described
above and their weights attached to the lower extremities, a
scale divided into half-millimetres was attached to one of
them (the lighter), and an index or pointer moving over the
scale was attached to the other. To aid in reading, a lens
or Quincke mieroscope-kathetometer (shown in the figure)
could be used, though at the commencement this was un
necessary. Thermometers were also inserted into holes in the
tube at different heights.
   As soon as the steam was allowed to enter the tube both
wires were seen to extend, and the heavily weighted wire ex
tended much more than the lightly weighted wire. The steam
was turned off after about ten minutes, and the tube and wires
allowed to cool. In an hour or more, when it was quite cer
tain that everything had returned to the initial temperature,
the marks were examined again, and it was found that the
wires had not returned to their original length ; but had suf
fered a considerable amount of permanent elongation, the
heavily weighted wire having suffered more elongation than
the other. This was to be expected ; but I was not prepared
to find that, when the heating was repeated again and again,
the permanent elongation steadily increased, though each time
by a perceptibly diminishing amount.
    As soon as this was found I determined to add temporarily

  316     Mr. J. T. Bottomley on Expansion and Contraction
  to each of the stretching weights a small extra weight, and to
  commence a hardening process which should ultimately give
  me the wires in a condition more stable and more suitable for
  the proposed experiments. Accordingly two extra weights
  were made, each about one sixth of the permanent stretching-
  weight ; so that the lightly loaded wire carried during this
  process 1^ + 7^0 °f the breaking-weight, and the heavily loaded
  wire ^+-rV of the breaking-weight. These extra weights
  were removed after the hardening process was complete. I
  then arranged to have the steam turned on so as to heat up
  the tube and the wires two or three times a day, an interval
  of at least one or two hours being given between each heating
  to allow the tube to cool again perfectly. At the end of each
  operation the wires were compared. The behaviour of the
  wires during the hardening process surprised me greatly. I
  was quite prepared, after the preliminary experiments, to find
 that a good many heatings and coolings might be required
  before a permanent condition was reached ; but it required
  over two months and more than one hundred heatings and
 coolings before anything like permanence was reached in the
 first pair of wires I tried. At the end of this time, to my
 great disappointment, the heavily weighted wire broke down
 one night, having been left perfectly safe in the afternoon*.
    A fresh pair of wires was therefore suspended about the
 end of February last, the greatest care being taken to avoid
 any initial disturbance of the wires, and to see that they
 were free from visible kinks or bends of any kind ; and on
 March i the hardening process was commenced on these
 wires. As I judged from the first attempt that the desired
 condition had been very nearly reached before the breakdown
 took place, I considered it best not to reduce the working
 weight, but rather to accomplish what was required by taking
 extreme care to avoid any needless disturbancef. In the
 middle of April, after about 120 heatings and coolings, the
 wires seemed to have assumed a nearly permanent condition,
 and the extra weights were removed. The measuring-
 apparatus, to be described immediately, had been already
attached ; and during ten days, from April 21 till the end of
   * I think it is probable that a copper wire hung up with perhaps t wo
thirds or three quarters of its ordinary breaking-weight attached to the
lower end and alternately heated and cooled would break down ; and I
intend to make some trials of this kind on copper wire and wires of other
metals.
   t I must here express my indebtedness to Mr. Thomas A. B. Carver,
the student in charge of these experiments, now Thomson Experimental
Scholar in the University of Glasgow. Without such perseverance,
patience, and careful manipulation as he brought to bear, these experi
ments could not have been carried out to a successful issue.

             with Temperature in Wires under Stress.          317
the month, satisfactory measurements were made as to the
relative expansion of the heavily and lightly loaded wires.
At the end of the month of April I ceased to have the neces
sary supply of steam, and the experiments therefore came, for
the time, to an end. I have therefore erected a wooden pro
tection round the lower end of the tube, and the wires are left
hanging exactly as they were, and will remain so till the
middle of October, when I propose to continue the experiments.
   It now remains for me to describe the arrangement for the
final comparison between the expansions of the lightly loaded
and heavily loaded wires. This consists of three parts : a
multiplying lever, a fixed scale, and a movable scale (see
figs. 1, 2, & 3). The nmltiplying-lever is one of Sir William
Thomson's aluminium levers, used in his niilliampere balances.
The lever and supports were in fact taken from a disused trial
instrument, and the knife-edges and supports were inverted
and adapted to the purpose in hand. One of the supports (a)
of the lever is attached to the lightly loaded wire, and the
 other (/<) to the heavily loaded wire (PI. IX. figs. 1 & 2), and
the free end of the lever moves over the movable circular scale
 (mn, fig. 1). Supposing the two wires to expand and con
tract equally, the lever would simply be carried down and
up parallel to itself. But if both wires expand and contract
together, but one more than the other, the lever will be
carried down and up bodily, and will be tilted as well.
    The method which I have adopted up to the present of
 comparing the two wires has been to take the lightly loaded
wire as the standard ; and, using the fixed scale s t and a
 Quincke microscope-kathetometer, to lower or raise the zero
 of the movable scale mn by means of a screw, hh' (shown en
 larged, fig. 3), by as much as the knife-edge of the support a
has been lowered or raised by the expansion or contraction of
 the lightly loaded wire which bears it. The reading of the
pointer on the movable scale then gives the difference in ex
 pansion or contraction between the two wires.
    I am not yet prepared to give a definite numerical state
 ment : and as I have so far only had a single satisfactory set
 of experiments, I feel that even such results as I have ob
 tained require confirmation. There seems, however, to be no
 doubt that there is a measurable difference between the ex
 pansion by heat of the heavily loaded and lightly loaded
 wires, the expansion of the heavily loaded wire being the
 greater.
    The corresponding result for gold, platinum, and palladium
 wires must be carefully determined by special experiments,
 and must be taken into account in the deductions to bo made

 318                    Dr. T. Sterry Hunt on
 from the observations on the secular wires referred to in the
 opening paragraph of this paper. I hope, therefore, that though
 these experiments are far from complete, even this preliminary
 account of them may not be without interest to the Mathe
 matical and Physical Section of the British Association.
               XLII. Integral Weights in Chemistry.
              By T. Sterry Hunt, LL.D., F.R.S*
 1. TN approaching the discussion of integral weights in
     -L Chemistry, it is important to consider in the first place
 what we have elsewhere noticed as the distinction between
 dynamical and chemical phenomena. The passing alterations
 in the volume of any species resulting from variations of tem
 perature are dynamical ; but beyond certain limits these pro
 duce more or less permanent changes of state, which are
 chemical changes. Such are the condensation of gases or
 vapours to liquids and solids, the vaporization of these, the
 fusion of solids, and also the transformations alike of gaseous,
 liquid, and solid species, whether elemental or complex, which
 are comprehended under the general head of chemical meta
 morphosis. These changes, as is well known, are influenced
 by pressure, which favours or retards them, as the case may
 be. The phenomenon of elasticity in gases and vapours is
 apparently a manifestation of chemical change or metamor
phosis, giving rise to new and unstaple species.
    2. All changes of state in matter may, as we have elsewhere
 shown, be included under the two heads of (1) metamorphosis,
 which includes homogeneous integration and disintegration,
 and (2) metagenesis, which includes heterogeneous integra
 tion and disintegration. All such changes are subordinated
 to simple relations of measure, of number, and of weight, as
 is apparent in definite and multiple proportions, and in pro
 gressive series. These relations are best exemplified in the
 case of gases and vapours, where the weight at 0° temperature
 and 760 millim. pressure of a given volume of the lightest
 known species, namely hydrogen gas, is made the unit. The
 weight of a like volume of any other gas or vapour reduced
 to the same standard temperature and pressure, and compared
 with this unit, is sometimes designated its equivalent weight.
 Inasmuch, however, as in chemical union or integration of
 gases and vapours the most frequent cases are in the propor
 tion of one to one or one to two volumes, the condensation in
   * Communicated by the Author, having been rend before the Meeting
of the British Association for the Advancement of Science at Manchester,
September 1, \S67.

                 Integral Weights in Chemistry.               319
each being in a simple relation of volumes, the weight of this
unit-volume of any species has also been called its propor
tional weight or combining weight.
   These relative weights of equivalent volumes become, in the
language of the atomic hypothesis, atomic or molecular weights.
Since, however, a gas or vapour, whether it be of a so-called
elemental species, or one known to be formed by homogeneous
or by heterogeneous integration, is a unit or integer the spe
cific gravity of which, at standard temperature and pressure,
varies directly as its equivalent or combining weight ; and,
further, since this weight is nothing else than the specific
gravity of the gas or vapour, hydrogen being unity (H2 = 2),
it may, dispensing with all hypothesis, be designated the
weight of the integer, or, in other words, as the integral weight
of the gaseous or vaporous species.
   3. From the time of Gray-Lussac, the fact that all chemical
reactions, so far as regards gaseous or vaporous species, are
subordinated to a simple relation of volumes, and that the
specific gravity of such species is but a function of the equi
valent or integral weight, has been well understood ; the
volume at standard temperature and pressure being invariable.
The attempts made to establish a similar relation between the
specific gravity and the integral weights of liquid and solid
species have, however, hitherto been unsuccessful for the
reason that the law of volumes was lost sight of, and the
volume for such species, instead of being regarded, as in the
case of gaseous bodies, as a constant unit, was assumed to be
an arbitrary and a variable quantity ; the so-called atomic or
molecular volume being conceived as conditioned, not only by
crystalline form, but by various other circumstances. That
the law of volumes, as proclaimed by Gay-Lussac, applies not
only to gaseous species, but to liquids and solids also, was,
however, maintained by the present writer in 1853, " as lead
ing the way to a correct understanding of the equivalent
volumes of the latter;" although the constantly affirmed tra
dition of the subordination of the so-called molecular volume
of solid species to the variations of crystalline form prevented
him, for many years afterward, from arriving at the simple
solution of the problem embodied in the assertion made at the
same time, that " the doctrine of chemical equivalents is that
of the equivalency of volumes;" or, in other words, that the
law of volumes is universal, and that for all species—solid,
liquid, or gaseous—the volume, under proper conditions of
pressure, is the same.
   4. Hydrogen, as the lightest known species, is the unit of
integral weight in Chemistry; and a litre of this gas at 0° and

320                  Dr. T. Sterry Hunt on
760 millim. being assumed as a unit of volume for all species,
the weight of a litre of any other gas or vapour at the standard
temperature and pressure is its integral weight. In like
manner the integral weight of a liquid species is the weight
of the same volume at its boiling-point (as indicated in 1853)
under a pressure of 760 millim. ; while for any solid species
it is the weight of the same volume at the highest temperature
which that species can sustain without undergoing a change
of state. In other words, the weight of liquids should be
compared with that of the gaseous unit of hydrogen at the
temperature at which they are generated by the metamor
phosis, through condensation, of the corresponding gaseous
species. In like manner the weight of solids should theoreti
cally be determined at the temperature at which they are
generated by the metamorphosis of gaseous or liquid species.
The weights thus obtained for equal volumes of the various
liquid and solid species, as well as for the gaseous species, are
evidently the specific gravities of these species ; that of hy
drogen at the standard temperature and pressure being unity,
(H2 = 2). They are at the same time the integral weights of
the species compared.
   5. The advantages of this natural unit of specific gravity
over the arbitrary ones hitherto adopted are evident. That
which, for motives of convenience, has hitherto been employed
for gases and vapours, namely the weight of dry atmospheric
air at standard temperature and pressure, is the weight of a
mixture of gases and not of a chemical integer ; while water,
adopted as the unit for liquids and for solids, is, on the con
trary, a liquid integer, condensed by refrigeration from 100°
(the temperature of its production at 760 millim. pressure)
either to 15° or to 4°, its maximum density. The specific
weight of hydrogen at standard temperature and pressure is the
truly scientific unit of specific gravity for all bodies, whether
gaseous, liquid, or solid ; the integral weight of this unit
entering as a factor into the specific gravities thus calculated,
and causing these to represent the equivalent or integral
weights of the species compared.
   6. It is obvious that the integral weight of water must in
like manner enter into the specific gravities of liquids and
solids for which this species is assumed as unity ; and hence
the importance of determining as near as possible its integral
weight. The ratio between the weights of equal volumes of
water-vapour at 100° and 760 millim., and of water at 0°, as
deduced from direct determinations of the density of steam
compared with air, and of air compared with water, has been
found to be 1 : 161)8. If now we attempt to fix this ratio by

                  Integral Weights in Chemistry.              321
calculating the specific gravity of steam from that of hydrogen
gas at 100°, as determined by Regnault, we find (assuming
0= 16) for the weight of a litre of steam at 100° and 760 mil
lim., 0*590148 grin. ; and dividing by this number the weight
of a litre of water at 4° ( = 1000 grins.) get 1694*49. If, how
ever, we take 0 = 15*9633, as deduced by Stas, we get instead,
0*58894 for the weight of a litre of steam ; and with this as
the divisor find a ratio 1 : 1697*97. Correcting this for the
density of water at 0°, we have 1 : 1697*74 ; an approximation
to the experimental figure which shows the revised integral
weight of oxygen (15*9633) to be very near the truth. But
to fix the integral weight of water, we must consider its den
 sity at 100°, the temperature of its formation under a pressure
 of 760 millim., which, being 0*95878, gives for the number of
 volumes of steam at the above temperature and pressure,
 which are condensed into one volume of water at the same
 temperature, 1628 04. The formula of water is thus 1628
 (H20), of which the coefficient multiplied by 17*9633 gives,
 for the integral weight of water, 29244. In close confirma
 tion of this figure, it' we take the ordinarily received weight
 for the litre of hydrogen at 0° and 760 millim., namely 0'896
 grm., we find for the litre of water-vapour (H20 = 17*9633)
 at 100° and 760 millim., 0*589088 grm. Comparing this
 with the weight of a litre of water at 100°, we have
               0*589088 : 958*78 : : 2 : a- = 29236*4.
     This value of x, giving the relation of weight between equal
 volumes of H20 and of liquid water, both at 100°, is very
 near that calculated above for 1628 (H20) =29244, which we
 may regard as the integral weight of water.
     7. From this value thus deduced for water by comparison
 with hydrogen, we proceed to calculate for liquid and solid
  species their integral weights. But the integral weight of
 water, the received unit of specific gravity for such species, is
  that of a body a litre of which, though weighing 1000 grin,
  at 4°, weighs but 958*78 grm. at 100° ; so that, in calculating
  specific gravities by comparing the weight of bodies with that
  of an equal volume of water, it is with water at the lesser
  density that the comparison should be made. Since most
  liquid and solid species expand, like water, by heat, it is theo
  retically desirable to take the volume of these at the highest
  temperature which they can sustain without change of state.
  This point in many cases is hard to fix. The ready transfor
  mation, by expansion, of arragonito into calcite by heat; the
  condensation, on the contrary, which goes on when silver
   iodide is heated from 0° to 116° ; that of Rose's fusible alloy

322                  Dr. T. Sterry Hunt on
between 59° and its melting-point ; and the remarkable con
densation effected, even by a gentle heat, when the grey
brittle species of tin passes into the ordinary white malleable
form (not less than the fact that quartz and many native sili
cates at temperatures below their melting-points acquire that
increased solubility which they possess, with augmented value,
after fusion),—all tend to show that chemical changes may take
place by heat in other solid species where hitherto unsuspected.
They show moreover the uncertainty which attends any attempt
to fix by calculation the augmentation of volume in a solid
species by heat beyond the limits within which experiment
has determined the rate of expansion.
    8. It is clear that if a species could, without chemical
change, be heated to a point at which its augmentation of
 volume from 4° would be just equal to that of water from 4°
to its boiling-point at 7 1»0 millim., its specific gravity as
compared with this liquid at 100° would be the same as
that found for the same species at 4° compared with water
 at the same temperature. The cubical expansion of water
for each degree between 4° and 100° is approximately
 •00043, while that for iron from 0° to 300° is given as
 •000044, and that for quartz from 0° to 100° at -000040.
 The coefficient of expansion for these bodies being thus about
 one tenth that of water, it would be necessary, in order
 to attain an augmentation comparable to that of water at
 100°, to raise them to 1000° and upward, or to temperatures
 much above those required to produce chemical changes in
 quartz and in most native silicates. The coefficient of cubical
 expansion of these last for each degree between 0° and 100°
 is moreover much less than that for iron and for quartz, vary
 ing in general from -000020 to -000028. The latter rate of
 expansion, if constant to 500° (even below which many native
 species are chemically changed), would reduce the specific
 gravity of the species at that temperature only 0'014 ; and up
 to 1000° only 0*028. The differences between these numbers
 and 0'043, which represents the cubical expansion of water
 from 4° to 100°, thus mark the extent of the errors involved
 in the determination of the specific gravities of such species
  with water at 4°. The imperfections and impurities of most
 natural and artificial crystalline species introduce errors
  not less considerable in the determinations of their specific
 gravity. The best figures obtained for such species involve
 in most cases possible deviations, in the one or the other direc
 tion, as great as those due to the different rates of expansion
  of water and these species ; so that we may take the approxi

                    Integral Weights in Chemistry.                      323
mative specific gravities got with water at 4° (or better at 15°)
as an available basis for fixing the integral weights of most
solid species.
    9. We are thus led to the doctrine of high integral weights
and of polymerism for liquid and solid species, suggested by
Favre and Silbermann in 1847 from their thermo-chemical
studies, and by Graham in 1849 from his researches in diffu
sion. In 1853 this view of polymerism was further discussed
by the present writer, who then proposed for the carbon spars,
regarded as polycarbonates, provisional integral weights, vary
ing with their densities from about 1500 to 2500. The subject
has much more recently engaged the attention of Guthrie,
of Spencer Pickering, and especially of Louis Henry in his
inquiry into the Polymerization of Metallic Oxyds*. Studies
of the ammonio-cobalt bases, the formulas of which require
integral weights of not less than from 500 to 2500, have
thrown further light upon the subject ; and especially the late
researches of Wolcott Gibbs on the salts of what he has de
signated " The Complex Inorganic Acids," among which he
has made known polytungstutes the simplest formulas of which
lead to integral weights of not less than 5000, and in one case
of 20058. The high numbers thus deduced for the last two
classes of bodies represent, however, the simplest possible
integral weights, like that for water-vapour ; while the species
themselves, as known to us, are derived from these theoretical
species by what is called polymerization, or, more correctly,
by homogeneous integration, being, like water, and like ice,
examples of metamorphosis by condensation.
     10. As we calculate the integral weights of all gaseous
species by a comparison of their densities with that of hy
drogen gas, so we may calculate those of liquid and solid
species, either by comparing their densities directly with that
of hydrogen or else with that of water at 100° ; remembering
that this has an integral weight of 29244, and that these den
sities are subject to corrections for expansion, as already set
forth. The integral weights of these species being thus
known, and also those of the simpler species from which they
are formed by homogeneous integration, it is obvious that by
dividing the first by the second we get the coefficient of con
densation. Thus, calcium carbonate, CCaOs = 99*89 ; and as
    * This paper, which in an English translation is published in the
 Philosophical Magazine for August 1885, first appeared in 1879 as "Etudes
 tie Chiruie Moleculaire, lro partie, les Oxydes Metalliques," in the Annates
 de la Suciete Scientifique de jBrmelles.

324             On Integral Weights in Chemistry.
calcite •with a specific gravity of 2"7536 corresponds to an
integral weight of 79912, we find the coefficient =800 ; since
99-89 : 79912 : : 1 : 800. Inverting this proportion we get
79912 : 99-89 : : 1 : -00125, which is the reciprocal of the
coefficient, since 800 x -00125 = 1-00000. Calcite with the
above density is 800 (CCa03), while water is 1628 (H20), for
17-9633 : 29244 : : 1 : 1628, the reciprocal of its coefficient
being -00061425.
    11. The weight of water-vapour is fixed by experiment ;
but for calcium carbonate, which is not known in a gaseous
form, the theoretical integral weight (generally designated
by p) is deduced from the simplest admissible formula there
for, and is a number which, as we have seen, corresponds to
the specific gravity of such a hypothetical carbonate, hydrogen
gas being unity. Representing by d the specific gravity of
the condensed species, calcite, on the same hydrogen basis
(water = 29244), we have for calcite, sp. gr. 2-7356, by the
above given proportions, its coefficient of condensation, and
also the reciprocal thereof, in terms of hydrogen.
    In inquiries into the so-called molecular or atomic volume
of liquid and solid species from the time of Leroyer and Dumas,
while using the same symbols, and making p, as above, to
represent the specific gravity on the hydrogen basis, d has
been taken on the basis of water as unity (1 = 29244), so that
having employed the ordinary formula for molecular volume,
p-r-d = v, we multiply the value of v thus obtained by the
coefficient of condensation and get, not 1, but 29244. Other
wise, dividing the value of v by 29244, we obtain the reci-
Srocal of the coefficient, as before, upon the hydrogen basis,
   hemical integration being effected, not by juxtaposition of
molecules, but by identification of volume, the so-called mole
 cular volume of a given liquid or solid species is thus the
 reciprocal of its coefficient of condensation.
    For a further discussion of this question of integral weights
 in some of its relations, the reader is referred to the author's
 lately published volume, entitled 'A New Basis for Chemistry ;'
 and also to a still more recent essay " On Chemical Integra
 tion," read before the National Academy of Sciences at
 Washington, in April, and published in the 'American Journal
 of Science ' for August 1887.

                              [   325    ]
 XLIII. On the Existence of certain Elements, together with
    the Discovery of Platinum, in the Sun. By C. C.
    Hutchins and E. L. Holden*.
 LATE in the fall of 188(5 it was decided by the writers,
        who were then at work in the Physical Laboratory
 of Harvard University, to attempt a revision of some of the
 previous work in regard to the chemical constitution of the
 sun, as well as to discover, if possible, new facts bearing on
 the same subject. For the purpose of this investigation a
 magnificent diffraction-grating, made by Professor Rowland,
 of Baltimore, was kindly placed at our disposal by Professor
 John Trowbridge, under whose supervision and direction the
 subsequent work has been done.
    After some delay caused by the mounting of the grating
 and its attachments, work was begun early in January 1887,
 but, owing to bad weather and other hindrances, was not
 regularly and systematically prosecuted till somewhat later.
    The grating used is of speculum metal with a ruled surface
 measuring 6 inches by 2, having 14,438 lines to the inch.
 It is concave, its radius of curvature being 21£ feet, and is
 mounted according to Professor Rowland's method. Suffice
it to sa}', that the method is such that, by simply rolling the
camera along an iron track, it passes not only from one part
of the spectrum to another, but also to the spectra of different
orders, at the will of the operator. As the distances on this
track are proportional to the relative wave-lengths of the
 lines that fall successively on a given point in the camera, it
 is easy, by means of a suitable scale of equal parts placed
 beside the track, to set the centre of the photographic plate
instantly within a single wave-length of any given line in
the spectrum.
    And here let us parenthetically state that all our wave
lengths are those given by Professor Rowland's photographic
map of the solar spectrum, the position of every line referred
to being carefully identified upon the map, and its absolute
wave-length thus determined. Although some of the nega
tives contain many lines too faint to show on the map, yet
we feel confident that our numbers correspond in all cases to
those of the map within one tenth of a wave-length.
    The light is brought into the room by means of a forte
 lumiere, and then sent through the slit after total reflexion
   • From an advance proof from the Proceedings of the American
Academy of Arts and Sciences, vol. xxiii. Communicated by Professor
J. Troworidge, of Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass., U.S.

326           Messrs. Hutchins and Holden on the
by a right-angled prism. Before striking the prism it passes
through a cylindrical lens, which condenses it to a band of
light about 2 inches long and | inch wide. The jaws of the
slit move equally in opposite directions, so that, however
widely they may be opened, no lateral displacement of lines
can result from this cause.
   Directly in front of the slit is placed a large tin lantern
containing an electric lamp ; the imago of the arc can be
brought exactly upon the slit by moans of an adjustable lens
in the front of the lantern. In the lower carbon of the lamp
is made a cup-shaped cavity, which is filled with the substance
a spectrum of which is desired. It is not at all necessary that
this be in the form of a metal, for any ordinary compound is
at once reduced by the intense heat and the presence of carbon
vapour to the metallic state.
   The plan of working has been as follows. The apparatus
being arranged as described, the sunlight is admitted and the
desired portion of solar spectrum photographed upon the
upper half of the plate ; then the sunlight is excluded by a
shutter, and the image of the electric arc containing the
proper metal is allowed to fall upon the slit, and its spectrum
photographed on the lower half of the plate. (Most of the
plates used were those made by the M. A. Seed Co., and were
cut to the size of 8 inches by 2. The most sensitive plates
were obtained, and even then we found the required time of
exposure for some parts of the spectrum inconveniently long.)
   In order to effect the exposure of either half of the plate at
will, we placed directly in front of the camera an opaque
screen, in which was a rectangular opening one half the size
of the plate. By turning a handle, this screen is raised or
lowered without the slightest disturbance of camera or plate.
The metallic spectrum, being thus photographed immediately
below the solar spectrum, can be compared with it at leisure.
   These spectra are then examined with the aid of a glass
magnifying about ten diameters, and any coincidences be
tween solar and metallic lines carefully noted according to
their wave-lengths. In order to eliminate any personal error,
they are examined by both observers separately, and their
results afterwards compared.
   To eliminate errors arising from suspected impurities of
materials, as also from the impurities known to exist in the
carbons employed, we took what we called " comparison
photographs." For these, we placed in the carbon cup a
portion of the substances known or suspected to be present
as impurities in our metal, and then photographed the spec
trum thus given on the upper half of the plate : a piece of

            Existence of certain Elements in the Sun.        327
the metal under experiment was then placed in the lamp, and
the spectrum photographed on the lower part of the plate.
Any lines due to impurities would then extend entirely across
the plate, while those of the pure metal would extend only
half-way. In addition to this precaution we consulted all
accessible tables and plates as to the position of known lines
of metallic spectra, and also compared together all our photo
graphs of the same region. If all of these tests left any
doubt as to the origin of a given line, it was at once subjected
to special investigation until all doubt was removed.
   The dispersion given by the apparatus in the order of
spectrum in which we worked is such that a single wave
length occupies on the negative a space of 1'12 mm. This
makes the distance between the lines D, and Da 6'7 mm.,
while the length of spectrum from A to H is about 4-l m.
With so great dispersion it would hardly be possible to mis
take the position of a line by any very considerable amount,
or to confound neighbouring lines belonging to different
metals.
   For reasons readily apparent, it was found so difficult to
photograph under high dispersive power those parts of the
spectrum not lj'ing between wave-length 3(500 and wave
length 5000, that our photographic work was done chiefly
within those limits. It was, however, supplemented in many
cases by eye observations in other portions of the spectrum.
    We are convinced that there is much in the whole matter
of coincidences of metallic and solar lines that needs re
examination ; that something more than the mere coincidence
of two or three lines out of many is necessary to establish
even the probability of the presence of a metal in the sun.
With the best instruments the violet portion of the solar
 spectrum is found to be so thickly set with fine lines that,
if a metallic line were projected upon it at random, in many
 places the chances for a coincidence would be even, and coin
 cidences could not fail to occur in the cases of such metals as
 cerium and vanadium, which give hundreds of lines in the
 arc.
    Moreover, a high dispersion shows that very few lines of
 metals are simple and short, but, on the contrary, winged and
 nebulous, and complicated by a great variety of reversal
 phenomena. A " line " is sometimes half an inch wide on
the photographic plate, or it may be split into ten by reversals.
    At first we believed that these reversals were due to defects
 in the ruling of the grating, but we are convinced that they
 are true phenomena from the following experiments:—(1) Tlie
 wings continue when various portions of the grating are

328          Messrs. Hutchins and Holden on the
covered. (2) They are the same in three successive orders
of spectra. (3) They are very different in different metals,
and in some are not seen at all. (4) We arranged a flat
grating, with collimator and projecting lens, each of 5-feet
focus, and found that with this apparatus the same phenomena
appeared.
   On pages 87 and 88 of 'The Sun' Professor Young
gives a list of elements in the sun according to the best
authorities, which is followed by a list of doubtful elements.
Some of these we have examined with the following results:—
   Cadmium.—The coincidence of the two lines given by
Lockyer at wave-lengths 4677 and 4799 is perfect. These
are the only cadmium-lines near, and sun-lines in the vicinity
are not numerous.
   Lead.—The evidence for lead, due to Lockyer, is based
upon three lines at 4019-7, 4058-2, and 4061-8. We have
photographed these lines with the sun many times. They are
broad and nebulous, and often several times reversed. Lines
in solar spectrum numerous and faint. 4019-7 and 4058-2
certainly do not coincide. 4061-8 is very difficult to pro
nounce upon ; it may coincide.
    Cerium, Molybdenum, Uranium, and Vanadium.—These
four metals may be classed together. Lockyer finds four
 coincidences each for molybdenum and vanadium, three for
uranium, and two for cerium. The arc-spectrum of each is
characterized by great complexity and vast numbers of lines.
So numerous are the lines, in fact, that often on the photo
graphs the total space occupied by them is greater than the
space not so occupied. A plate 10 inches long may contain
a thousand or so. Evidently coincidences between these and
solar lines cannot fail to occur as matters of chance, and
therefore prove nothing. One can easily count a hundred or
so such coincidences without the slightest conviction that the
connexion is other than fortuitous. Of course all this is
nothing against the probability of these metals being in the
sun ; but at the same time those peculiarities of grouping,
strength of lines, and other characteristics which occur in the
case of iron and other spectra, and which alone can serve as
evidence in such cases, are conspicuously absent.
   Among the metals whose existence in the solar atmosphere
has seemed probable, we have examined the following :—
   Bismuth.— The line of the above metal at 4722*9, the only
line of bismuth in the arc in that whole region, coincides per
fectly with the more refrangible of a very faint pair of solar
lines.

            Existence of certain Elements in the Sun.        329
    Tin.—The solitary tin-line at 4525, thought by Lockyer
to coincide, falls directly between two fine lines in the solar
spectrum.
   Silver.—Lockyer mentions a certain possibility of silver in
the solar atmosphere from the apparent agreement of two of
its nebulous lines with solar lines. One of these we have
never been iible to find in the course of many photographs of
the region in which it is given by him.
    We find seven lines of silver between 4000 and 4900. Of
these seven, three are what Thalen calls nebulous ; so broad
and hazy that their true positions cannot be determined with
much accuracy. These lie at about 4055*5, 40<33'6, and 4212.
A fourth line at 4023 is of the same general character, but
has a sharp reversal which agrees with a solar line. The
 remaining three lines are represented in the sun, and are
 given by Thalen in the spark-spectrum of the metal.
    4476'2. Very strong line ; nebulous on lower edge. Sun-
 line strong. (Thalen, 4475.)
    4668. Strong, solitary line. (Thalen, 4666-5.)
    4874-3. Fairly strong. (Thalen, 4874.)
    Thus, between the limits given above, every line of silver,
 as far as can be determined, coincides with a solar line.
    Potassium.—We could find but two lines of potassium, the
 same that were examined by Lockyer, 4044-5 and 4048-35.
 Each line is reversed four times, which increases the difficulty
 of locating them exactly. 4048-35 seems to agree with a solar
 line. The solar lino near 4044-5 is very faint, and it is next
 to impossible to decide the question of an agreement.
    Lithium.—The blue line of lithium presents a curious case.
 The very broad and nebulous line has a rather sharp reversal
 near the centre, and somewhat toward the lower edge a
 broader and less clearly defined reversal. Both these reversals
 agree with solar lines at 4602-5 and 4603-2. It is possible
 that one of the reversals may be due to the presence of some
 other substance, say calcium ; but if that were true, it would
 seem that both reversals would be nearly, if not quite, oblite
 rated. Further experiment may clear the matter up. 4603*2
 is given to iron by Thalen.
     Platinum.—As far as we can learn, no evidence has hitherto
  been offered to show the occurrence of this metal in the solar
  atmosphere. We were somewhat surprised therefore upon
  meeting with coincidences. Between 4250 and 4950 we find
  64 lines of platinum, sixteen of which agree with solar lines.
  The latter are at the following places :—
     Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 24. No. 149. Oct. 1887.         Z

330              Mr. F. Y. Edgoworth on the
      4291-10                        4481-85
      4392-00 (Thalen 4389-4)        4552-80 (Thalen 4551-8)
      4430-40                        4560-30
      4435-20                        4580-80
      4440-70                        4852-90 (Thalen 4851-5)
      4445-75 (Thalen 4442-0)        4857-70
      4448-05                        4899-00
      4455-00                        4932-40
   We have taken all possible care to make this statement
accurate, and to admit no lines about which there seemed to
be any question. There are seven other lines not included in
the list, the probability of agreement of which is at least as
good as that upon which potassium is admitted.
   In all these experiments everything has been done to bring
out and show upon the photograph as much as possible. The
lamp, constructed for the purpose and fed by a powerful
dynamo, gave an arc from a half to three fourths of an inch
long, and burned with a long flame and so intense a heat that
it could be worked for but a few minutes at a time. Anyone
who has carried out a series of experiments like this is alone
competent to appreciate the great labour and the endless
difficulties and perplexities that attend them.
    Our thanks are especially due to Dr. Woleott Gibbs for his
heart}' encouragement, and for the use of valuable apparatus
and chemicals.
XLIV. T/ie Empirical Proof of the Luxe of Error. By F. Y.
    Edgeworth, M.A., Lecturer at King's College, London*.
fT^HE Law of Error is here used as a short title for the pro-
 -I- position that Observations (including statistical returns)
tend to group themselves in the manner represented by the
 Probability-curve y= —.—  1 e -**
                                 cl. The empirical proof of this
                         V 7TC
proposition is obtained by comparing actual groups with the
 theoretical arrangement. This examination of fact is most
 efficient when there is present deductive reasoning ; both sug
 gesting what interrogations should be put to experience, and
 corroborating the answers.
    The deductive proof of the Law of Error consists of a ma
 thematical theory which is the foundation of the Method of
 Lieast Squares. According to this theory, observations tend
to be grouped according to the Law of Error when the follow
 ing conditions are fulfilled. Each observation must be one
                  * Communicated by the Author.

               Empirical Proof of the Law ofError.                     331
and the same definite and constant function of a number of
 variable elements. Each variable assumes for different obser
 vations different values according to some law of facility.
 And the number of the variables on which an observation
 depends must be large.
    This is the general statement of the conditions ; but the
 nearer definition requires care. Quetelet's simple illustrations
 have countenanced the supposition that the elementary vari
 ables must all obey one and the same law of facility, and that
.of the simplest kind. But it is shown by Poisson's generali
 zation of Laplace's theory that the facility-curves may be
 different and of almost any species. If they are unsymme-
trical, the figure in which the observations group themselves
 will still be a Probability-curve—with respect to the central
 portion at least ; for the extremities will be apt to differ from
 the typical form and from each other. It is not even neces
 sary to assume the facility-curve for each variable to be a
 constant function. We might suppose these forms to shift
 and slide between the times at which different observations
 are taken, provided there remain constant the centre of gra
 vity of all the facility-curves and their average mean-square
 of error.
    Nor, again, need the observation be the simple sum of the
 variables or elements. It may be any linear function of them.
 Now, as by Taylor's theorem any function may be regarded
 as linear for small values of its variables, it might seem that,
 whatever the relation of the observation to its constituent
 elements, the law of facility for the observations must be in
 the neighbourhood of its centre a probability-curve. It will
 be found, however, that this proposition holds in general for
 such small distances about the centre that any other symme
 trical curve would equally well represent the grouping. The
 range over which the law prevails is apt to be of a smaller
 order than when the elementary variables are combined by
 simple addition*.
    As we can seldom be certain beforehand how far the neces
 sary conditions are fulfilled, the theoretical analysis docs not
 enable us to dispense with the empirical verification. How
 ever, the hints afforded by theory assist us in examining
 experience. We shall not expect Social Statistics, e. g. Bank
 Reserves, to comply with the Law of Error, when they depend
 on one or two great causes such as a crisis or a war \. When
   * Cf. Glaisher, 'Memoirs of the Astronomical Society,' vol. xl. p. 105.
   t The number of elements necessary for some approximation to the
 Law of Error is less than might be expected. The present writer has
 shown, by forming sums of/foe digits taken at random from mathematical
                               Z 2

332                  Mr. F. Y. Edgeworth on the
there is secular increase of any quantity, e. g., at some periods,
of Bank-notes-in-the-hands-of-the-public, then, the facility-
curves not being constant, we shall not look for the Law of
Error. Nor, when we have reason to suspect that the facility-
curves of the variables are not symmetrical, that there is a
drift of tendency in one direction, shall we expect the result
ing arrangement to be symmetrical ; though it is quite possible
that the central portion of the generated curve, the body as
 distinguished from the extremities, may be of the typical
 form. In no case can the extremities, say the regions at a
 distance of 1*5 x modulus from the centre, be expected to
 fulfil the law accurately*.
     The empirical investigation thus directed may conveniently
be separated into two steps. We should first ascertain whether,
and how far the curve (or class of curves) under consideration
is symmetrical ; next, whether, as to that part of it which is
symmetrical, it is to be regarded as the Probability-curve and
not another.
     I. Whether an observed group is symmetrical or not is in
the main to be determined by inspection and common sense.
 However, the Theory of Probabilities may supply some hints
and warnings useful in cases which are not self-evident. One
 caution is that the position of an extreme observation is not
per se a safe test that the limb whoso extremity is furthest
extended is really longest. Though of course if, examining
repeated specimens of a certain category, we find that one
limb seems ever longer than the other, this persistent disparity
 cannot be due to accident. It is thus that the present writer
 has proved the fact that prices are apt to diverge from their
 average more in excess than in defectf. Even in that case,
 however, it was well to take account of the penultimate and
 antepenultimate, as well as the extreme, observations.
     It is a very good plan, as Dr. Venn has recommended %, to
 compare the mean-error above and that below the apparent, the
 arithmetic, mean. The significance of this result may be tested
 by the formula which Laplace has given for the error of the sum
 tables, that even so small a number of elements will afford a respectable
 approximation to the perfect probability-curve. ("Mathematical Theory
 of Banking," published in abstract in the Report of the British Associa
 tion, 1886.)
    * See illustrations of the last two propositions in my paper " On the
Law of Error " &c, Phil. Mag. April 1880.
    t Report of the British Association, 1887 : Memorandum on the best
method of measuring the change in the value of money.
    t In an important letter to 'Nature,' Sept. 1, 1887.

               Empirical Proof of the Law of Error.                         333
of errors, abstractionfaite du signe*. Only we should take ac
count that the mean from which we measure our errors above
and below is itself liable to error. When we take the Greatest
Ordinate as the mean, this sort of correction is not possible.
   It appears that the mean error above and that below the
Arithmetic Mean can only be different when the Arithmetic
Mean and the Median are different. Accordingly an equally
good test of symmetry may be afforded by comparing the
Arithmetic Mean and the Median and estimating the proba
bility of the observed difference occurring if the curve were
really symmetrical. Take, for example, the heights of 25,878
American recruits recorded in the Report of the International
Statistical Congress, vol. ii. p. 748. The Arithmetic mean is
there given as 68 2. For the Median I find 68*15. For the
Modulus-squared, which tests the difference to bo expected
between these Means, we have (by adding the squares of the
Modulus applicable to each Mean separately)                          + 2pit 5
where the e's are errors measured from the Arithmetic Mean,
P is the greatest ordinate (the number of observations per
unit of abscissa at the densest part of the given group). Here
2Se3, as ascertained by actual counting (as well as by induc
tion from other anthropometrical statistics J) is 13 nearlv.
n= 25,878. And P is 4054. Whence for the sought Mo
dulus we have n/ -0005 + -0008 = -04 nearly. And the observed
difference (between the Median and Arithmetic Mean) is "05:
that is, very slightly greater than the corresponding Modulus ;
so that no great significance attaches to the observed indica
tion of asymmetry.
   As a second example, take the anthropometrical statistics
cited by Mr. Merriman in his 'Method of Least Squares'
(1885), art. 136. There the number of observations is 18,780.
The Arithmetic Mean, as calculated by Mr. Merriman, is
67*24.     The Median, as estimated by me, is 67*28.                  ——, as
deduced from Mr. Merriman's results, is 12*25. And P is
3000 nearly. Hence, for the Modulus appertaining to the
difference between the Median and Arithmetic Mean, we have
*04 ; the same as the observed difference. Accordingly the
indication of asymmetry is insignificant.
      of Probability,'
   * Theor.            art.Book
             Analytique,              See19below,
                            1006.ii. art.         p. 342.by Todhunter, ' History
                                             ; adapted
  t See the formula quoted from Laplace in my paper " On Problems in
Probabilities " in the Philosophical Magazine, October 1886.
   X See " Methods of Statistics," Journal of the Statistical Society,
Jubilee volume (1885), p. 195.

334               Mr. F. Y. Edgeworth on the
   It may be observed that this test of symmetry does not
postulate that the curve under observation is a Probability-
curve. The method is particularly convenient when, as in the
case of measurements of human stature, we know beforehand
by a copious induction the value of the mean-square-of-error.
   II. We have next to test whether any other facility-curve
fits symmetrical groups of observations better than the Pro
bability-curve. We need not for this purpose try on an
indefinite number of curves. We are limited by the con
dition that the substitute for the Probability-curve must be
an equally simple form. It must not have more than one
parameter ; for, of course, by multiplying parameters we can
make any species of curve fit any data. Nor must the vari
able be involved in a very complicated manner; for we require
a serviceable as well as a faithful representative of the data.
    These considerations appear to limit the field of competition
to a few rival curves, some algebraic and some exponential. The
chief algebraic competitors are the Right Line and the Para
bola. The exponential curves are related to the Probability-
 curve, in that, where the latter involves the variable abscissa in
the second power, the former involve it in the first and third
power respectively. We might call them the First and Third
Exponentials. Affecting each of the functions so designated
 with a proper factor (rendering the integral between extreme
limits equal to unity), we have as the ordinates of the four
rival curves the following :—
                                     1^ _£           1_
                                    2c3e       *J-785y.
    Cl\     cj' 4c2V        c2V'
 Each of these curves possesses one parameter, which is to be
 determined from the data. For this purpose we should adopt
 some simple and uniform method which may give no advan
 tage to the Probability-curve. A method which well fulfils
 these conditions is to equate the observed mean error (^j^)
 with that function of the parameter which ought to be equal
 to that datum, if the curve corresponded to the actual group
 ing. We have thus, putting e for the observed mean-error,
 the follow ing equations for the parameters :—
         Ci = 3e;   f2=§e;     c3 = e;   c4 = tl-0784 . . . e.
 To these may bo added the equation for the parameter (the
                • =|r(i).                t =r«)-=-r(|).

             Empirical Proof of the Law of Error.              335
Modulus) of the Probability-curve :—
                        c=*l'772...e.
   In testing the fit of these curves we may pursue two me
thods. We may compare computed with experienced values,
either with respect to small parts or some large aggregate.
For instance, and in particular, we may examine either ordi-
nates or areas ; either small strips, or a large extent, of area.
The former test yields the greatest quantity of evidence if we
take the trouble of extracting it ; but for the same labour the
comparison of areas yields a better result than that of ordinates.
   Confining ourselves here to the more summary tests, we
may observe that it is not indifferent what point we select in
order to observe whether the ordinate given by experience at
that point, or the area within it, is better represented by the
Probability-, or some rival, curve. Consider in the accom
panying figure the relation of the Probability-curve (the con
tinuous line) to the parabola (the discontinuous line), each
being supposed to have the same mean error, in the sense
above explained. If we compare real with computed ordinates
in the neighbourhood of either the point i\ or i2, it is clear
            .ri^v^
                                                     1 ¦         —
                                                     1 's-
that there will not be much to choose between the parabola
and the Probability-curve. It would be better to select as the
theatres of our comparison the neighbourhood of m, or m2,
where the difference between the computed ordinates of the
rival curves is a maximum. Conversely, and i2 would be
good points to select for the comparison of areas.
   It will be desirable to bring to the empirical investigation
a knowledge of these critical points, as they may be called,
for all the curves with which we are concerned. They may
be expressed conveniently in terms of the computed Modulus
of the Probability-curve, that is y/ire. In the accompanying
                            * =Vjr.

336              Mr. F. Y. Edgeworth on the
table the first column represents degrees of the abscissa, mea
suring each a tenth part of the Modulus. The remaining
      Modulus.    Right Line.                             Third
                                Parabola. | e^™^. Exponential.
       O-l
       •1-2            •
       ¦2-3
       •3--4          m                          i
       ¦4--5                        i                       i
       •5--6
       ¦6--7 ,         i                         m          m
       •7--8
       •8-9
       •9-1                        m
        1-11
      11-1-2          m
      1-2-1-3                       i
 columns show, for each of the rival curves, at which of those
 degrees its critical points occur. Thus, in the second column
i opposite to the entry •]—"2 indicates that there is an inter
 section between the Right Line and the Probability-curve
 at some point whose abscissa lies between a tenth and two
 tenths of the Modulus. In the same column m indicates that,
 somewhere between the points "3 and "4, the difference between
 the ordinate of the Right Line and the Probability-curve
 becomes a maximum.
    Having this clue, let us now examine the data of experience.
 Let us take, as a first example, 470 observations (of the right
 ascension of Sirius and Altair) made by Bradley, and discussed
 by Bessel in his Fundamenta Astronomiw (p. 20)*. We shall
 first compare the fit of the rival curves in respect of some
 selected ordinates, the points of comparison being determined
 upon the principle above mentioned.
    We start with the datum (adopted from Bessel) that the
   * They are quoted by Chauvenet in his ' Manual of Astronomy,' and
also by Merriman in his ' Method of Least Squares,' 1885.

                Empirical Proof of the Law ofError.                 337
Mean Error ( —, our e) is '3119. Hence it follows that the
                   n
Modulus of the Probability-curve is "55282. We are thus
able to graduate the abscissa in aliquot parts of the Modulus,
so as to select the proper points of comparison with each rival
curve. Then, using the datum e = ,3119 to determine the
parameters of the rival curves, we compute the ordinates (or
small strips of area) at each of the selected regions.
    In the accompanying table the first column contains parts
of a second ; the second column the corresponding fractions
                                Pro
                      Ex- bability-                     First. Third
                                       Right Pambola. Expo
 Seconds. Modulus. perience.           Line.                    Expo
                               curve.                 nential. nential.
    0-1... •181       94         95                      130
    •1--2... •362     88 | 89           73
    •2--3...  ¦543    78         78
    •3-4...   ¦724     58        64                      50       71
    ¦4-5...   ¦904     51        50
    ¦5--6... 1085      36        35               51
    •6-7... 1-206      20    1   24     29
of the Modulus {e.g. -1 second = -181* Modulus). The third
column gives for each interval the number of observations
actually experienced. The fourth column gives the numbers
as computed by Bessel for the Probability-curve. The re
maining columns contain numbers computed by me for the
rival curves at regions selected by comparing the second
column of this table with the first column of the preceding
table. In computing the numbers I have used the same
approximative formula as Bessel, mutatis mutandis, viz.
                      N(A'-A)0(A) + #A')], _
where N is the total number of observations, here 470 ;
A and A are the superior and inferior limits of an interval
 (e. g. *1 and -2) ; and $ is the form of a rival curve (e. g., for
the Eight Line — £l— ^J, where Cx = 3e, and e = *3119).
    This empirical proof of the Probability-curve is striking,
and would be more striking if we extracted all the evidence
which the completed table would yield. If we do not care to
take that trouble, we are likely to obtain a better return for the
same labour by comparing areas rather than ordinates. This
comparison is effected in the accompanying table.
                          • More exactly, -18089.

338                                       Mr. F. Y. Edgeworth on the
          of Probability
    Odds favour
    in                           curve.
                                 m
          «- 3,
          ¦i i"8                             :* co
                                                —1 o           1Q
                               2
              Modulus of  Ecart.
                                             lO     ¦+         co
                                                                                     Mof
                                                                                      Ecart
                                                                                       otodulus. Rival
                                                                                     Ratio        against
                                                                                                   urve.
                                                                                                 COdds
          Ecart Probability-
          of
                                  curve.
                                             CI (M   00        ¦*
                                                                    c= of
                                                                       MEocdaurltus.
                                                                   1
              .O >                           5!
                                             CO <M 50               o
              £ 5                               CI CI
                                                    CO         CO
                                                               •*
                 2 °                                                g
              Ph                                                   W
              Ex ponential.
              First
                                            I—                     ¦o  iO ¦* 5b
                                                                   CO
                   Parabola.
                                                               CO
                                                               iO  S3                 CO 1        8
                                                               •o<
             RightLine.                         CO
                                                if: CI                                           CO
                                                CI  53                 »—1
         'Experience:
                          Areas.                    .318
                                            2   CJ             CO
              Experience:
                          Strips.
                                         Ci S 00               50
                                                            8 CN
                   JModulus.
                                         00 IN
                                            C£
                                            CO
                                                CO ct
                                                    , 7 1085 1-266
                    Seconds.                    T !
                                                         »c CO
                                         i      I CO'i 1
                                                CJ           j

              Empirical Proof of the Law of Error.                  339
    In this table the first three columns are the same as in the
last table ; the fourth column contains the sum of the expe
rienced observations from zero up to the point indicated by
the corresponding entry in the second column. For instance,
182 in the fourth column means that between zero and the
point "362 Modulus of Probability-curve, that is, -2 of a
second, there actually occurred 1 82 observations. The next
three columns give the computed values of the number of
observations up to the critical point of each rival curve. The
Third Exponential, on account of the difficulty which its inte
gration presents, has been omitted. The eighth column
contains the computed number of observations up to certain
points for the Probability-curve. The ninth column contains
the ecart or difference between the computed and experienced
numbers for the Probability-curve. The tenth column gives
the Modulus which measures the probability of a certain ecart
occurring. It is deduced from the formula V2/>(1 —p)N,
where p is the proportion of the observations which, according
to theory, should occur within the point {e.g. for the point
•724, p = -69); N is 470. The last column gives the odds (to
one) in favour of the Probability-curve ; the odds that, if the
 Probability-curve held good, the ecart would be at least as
 large as it is. The last four rows give the corresponding
 results for the Rival curves, their dcart, Modulus of ^cart,
 Ratio of ecart to Modulus, and thence deduced odds (to one)
 against the Rival Curves.
     It is noticeable that the Right Line comes out unscathed
 from this ordeal. The results would doubtless have been
 more striking had the number of observations been greater.
 This is the case in the next example (table, p. 341), which
 consists of the height-measurements of (>830G8 Italian recruits
 tabulated by Signor Perozzo". The Median and Arithmetic
 mean being coincident at the point or compartment 1 'o^ metres,
  I have thought it legitimate to suppose the curve folded about
 the central ordinate; so that, measuring from that centre as
  zero, we shall now have between 0 and '005 (metre) the num
  ber of observations which Signor Perozzo puts at PG2—that
 is, between P615 and 1"625. Between '005 and "015 of the
  new arrangement we shall have the sum of the observations
  registered for 1*61 and l-63 ; and so on.
      By actual counting I find for the Mean Error '053.
  Whence the Modulus = */it x Mean Error = -094. By means
  of this datum the second column is graduated and the critical
 points are selected. After the explanation of the preceding
 table, further comment is unnecessary. It is noticeable that
     * Annates de Demographic, 1878; Annali di Statisliea, 1878, vol. ii.

340                  Mr. F. Y. Edgeworth on the
 the odds against the Probability-curve being exact are
 enormous*. But, if we must adopt some simple representative
 of the experienced data, the case is as if we had to choose
between different explanations of a fact which has occurred ;
 each of which hypotheses is a priori improbable, but one of
 which must be true. Upon this view, the odds in favour of
 the Probability-curve are stupendous.
    It is not to be thought that the method of examining
 wholes rather than small parts is confined to the comparison
of areas. We might regard the sum of the number of obser
 vations as a particular case of the sums of powers of errors.
The sums of the apparent errors all taken positively, the sums
 of their squares and other powers, all supply empirical data
 proper to this method. We might put the facility-curve
 which is on trial in the form a<p(J3x) ; determine the con
stants u and /3 by means of any two of the above-named
data ; then for the curve so determined, calculate some other
sum of powers ; and then compare that computed value with
the corresponding datum of experience.
    For instance, let us apply the First Exponential to the
group of 25878 height-measurements mentioned above. Let
us take for our basis of computation the observed sum-of-
squares-of-errors, 166072, and the observed zero-power of
errors, viz. the number of observations.               The resulting
curve is of the form                      i
                           y= 25878^« '',
where c is to be determined from the equation
                                              q X
               166072 = Se«=25878if**,
                                         Jo c
                         = 25878 c* \ x*e-xdx= 25878 x 2cs.
                                   f
                                   «- o0
Whence                        2
                            oiz=6,21,      e=r8.
For the curve so determined we have now to compute the
sum, or Mean, of errors. The Mean Error =c=l"8. This
result is to be compared with experience, which gives for the
Mean Error 2—a discrepancy whose significance may thus
be tested. By a formula of Laplace already referred to, the
Modulus-squared for testing the error of the mean (first
   * A complex curve formed by the superposition of several Probability-
curves having different centres (corresponding to different provinces)
would doubtless be a nearer approximation. See on this point my letter
to ' Nature,' Sept. 22, 1887.

                                         •065    •055 •045 •035 025 015               •005             metres. Centi
                                         •689 •583 •477 •371             •265 •159                           Modulus.
                                                                                      053
                                                                                                                 Experience:
                                                 62565 66176 73649 78127 78480        41119          Strips.
                                         563G9
                                         456485                               119599                             Experience:
                                                       337551 271375                                    Areas.
                                  31439   425046
                                                                                                        Line. Right
 10uoo 55 565
                                  23471                 314080                                                Parabola.
  1O70O
         40 580
                                                               277033                                ponential. First
                                                                                                                    Ex
  10"                             5658
         10 570
  Curve.
  Rival
  Odds Ratio
against             MEocdaurltu.s Ecart
         toModulus. of
         Ecart
         of                       Curve.
                                  Rival
                                  of      457750        337697 273357          121524             curve. bability- Pro
                                                                1982           1925         curve. bability- of     Pro Ecart
                                                        146
                                         j550
                                          1265
                                                         580 570              447                 Ecart. of Modulus
                                                                                                   Modulus. Ecart
                                                                                                               to Ratio    of
                                           2-2           •25    3-5             43
                                                               1,0 0,0 0                              Probability-
                                           998           •4                                  curve. against Odds
                                                                                10°

342      Sir W. Thomson on the Propagation of Laminar
power of) error, abstraction faite du signe, is
         twice (Mean-square-of-error — (Mean-Error)2)
                      Number of Observations
that is, here,
                    2(6-4 -4)-*-25878 = -00019.
Whence the Modulus is about -014, while the observed ecart
is '4—some thirty times larger. This gives odds of nonillions
to one against the First Exponential. The corresponding
odds against the Probability-curve are some hundreds to one.
   It should be observed that the sums of powers may be
taken for integral portions of the curve's extent, rather than
for the whole. This plan seems theoretically more correct,
since the fulfilment of the law of error is to be looked for
rather in the body of the curve than at the extremities.
There arise, however, practical difficulties about the compu
tation in the case of some curves; in the absence of tables for
the values of fypfyixjdx. The Probability-curve itself affords
an instance.
   Different modes of verification will be appropriate to
different cases. But it is not the purpose of this paper
to provide a complete Manual of empirical evidence; but
rather to show in what sort of way the examination of
experience may be assisted by the Mathematical Theory of
Errors and Method of Statistics.
XLV. On the Propagation of Laminar Motion through a tur-
   bulenthj movina Inviscid Liquid. By Sir WlLLIAM Thomson,
   LL.D., F.R.S*
1. TN endeavouring to investigate turbulent motion of water
   J- between two fixed planes, for a promised communication
to Section A of the British Association at its coming Meeting
in Manchester, I have found something seemingly towards a
solution (many times tried for within the last twenty years)
of the problem to construct, by giving vortex motion to an
incompressible inviscid fluid, a medium which shall transmit
waves of laminar motion as the luminiferous aether transmits
waves of light.
   2. Let the fluid be unbounded on all sides, and let u, v, w
be the velocity-components, and p the pressure at (x, y, z, t).
We have
                                                                m.
  * Communicated by the Author, having been read before Section A of
the British Association at its recent Meeting in Manchester.

   Motion through a turbulently moving Inviscid Liquid.      343
            du       I da       du      du    dp\
            dt—\Udi+VTy+,0d7 + £) *                    '  •  (2)'
            dv       ( dv       dv , dv       dp\
            dt       \Udx+VTy+Wd~z+dy) ¦               •  ¦   ^>
            die      I dw       dw     dw dp\                ,,x
            di=-kldx+Vdy+Wd7 + dz) •                  •   •  <4>-
From (2), (3), (4) we find, taking (1) into account,
      , _du2 dv* dw2 ~tdvdw dw da du dv\
~V P~dJ + oy + d? + £\Tz~dy~+~dxdz + Tydz) '
   3. The velocity-components u, v, w may have any values
whatever through all space, subject only to (1). Hence, on
Fourier's principles, we have, as a perfectly comprehensive
expression for the motion at any instant,
u=S22S22«^f»,*))sin(w'J; + e)cos (n!/+f) cos (qz+g) . (6),
v^tSttZfi^^cosimx+e) sin (ny+f) cos (qz+g) . (7),
w=tt%%t%y '^'n^cos (vix + e) cos (ny+f) sin (qz+g) . (8);
where            $m,'J!lv          are any three velocities satis
fying the equation
             0=»iV,n)«) + nP(ra.«,,)+'/7(m,n,s)    •  •   •   (9);
and 22X222 summation (or integration) for different values
of m, n, q, e,f, g. The summations for e,f, g may, without
loss of generality, be each confined to two values : e = 0, and
e=\ir ; f—0, and f=27r ! # = 0, and £r = ^7r. We shall admit
large values, and infinite values of m~l, n~l, q~\ under certain
conditions [§ 4 (10), (11), (12), and § 15 below], but other
wise we shall suppose the greatest value of each of them to be
of some moderate, or exceedingly small, linear magnitude. This
is nn essential of the averagings to which we now proceed.
    4. Let xav, xzav, xyzav denote space-averages, linear,
surface, and solid, through infinitely great spaces, defined and
illustrated by examples, each worked out from (6), (7), (8),
as follows, L denoting an infinitely great length, or a very
 great multiple of whichever of m-1, n-1, q~l m.iy be con
 cerned :—

 344     Sir W. Thomson on the Propagation of Laminar
    xav u=^Ldx M = 22SS«(t;f;f cos (ny+f) cos {qz+g) .(10),
  xzav u= Q-^ J J" ^fecfo « = ^2a^'0°)>cos(ny+/) . (11),
 xyzav ?«=         j* J^J dzdydx w=*j£i,V                .    .    (12),
  xav «»=i2S2S22[«^/;iJ)] cos2(^+/) cos2(^+^) . (13);
this with the exceptions that
        in the case of m = 0, e=0, we take 0 in place of J,
    and in the case of m = 0, e=\ir ,,          1    „     ,,
   xzW =i22l222[«;:;/^)]2cos2(ny+/)                     .    .    (14),
   xzav uv=t 2^222 [«^,/,^$0,/,*>
                      mn q
with the exceptions for (14) that
in the case of        »i=0 and e=0 ")
    . .             „
 and in the case or q =0 and <7=£t   , Jr we take 0 instead oi ± ;
in the case of        wj=0 and e=|-n- 1            ]
 and in the case of q = 0 and ^=0 J           "    2     "      "    *'
in the case of ??i=0, e— |7r, n=0,/=^7r „          1     „      „    \;
and analogous exceptions for (15).
              xyzav u2=}i&22X[a^f's)T .                .    .     (16),
with exceptions for zeros of m and q, analogous to those of (14).
  5. As a last example of averagings for the present, take
xyzav of (5). Thus we find
— xyzav V » = i£22222-i ma               +nB         +qy             > I
                       mnq I     (".«.«)     («¦»,«) *'(»•.»,?) J W17).
             = 0 by (9).                                                j
The interpretation is obvious.

     Motion through a turbulently moving Inviscid Liquid,                    345
   6. Remark, as a general property of this kind of averaging,
if Q be any quantity which is finite for infinitely great values
of .r.
   7. Suppose now the motion to be homogeneously distri
buted through all space. This implies that the centres of
inertia of all great volumes ot the fluid have equal parallel
motions, if any motions at all. Conveniently, therefore, we
take our reference lines OX, OY, OZ, as fixed relatively io
the centres of inertia of three (and therefore of all) centres of
inertia of large volumes ; in other words, we assume no trans-
latory motion of the fluid as a whole. This makes zero of
every large average of u and of v and of w ; and, in passing,
we may remark, with reference to our notation of § 3, that it
makes, as we see by (10), (11), (12),
 0 = «(0, ,i,9) = <*(m, 0, j) = «(m, », 0)=Ao, t>, g) = &c- &C- = 7(m, n, 0) (19)-
   Without for the present, however, encumbering ourselves
with the Fourier-expression and notation of § 3, we may
write, as the general expression for nullity of translational
movement in large volumes,
                          0=ave w = ave t? = ave w .... (20);
where ave denotes the average through any great length of
straight or curved line, or area of plane or curved surface, or
through any great volume of space.
   8. In terms of this generalized notation of averages, homo-
geneousness implies
          avew2= U2,              avei>2 = V2,          avW=W2 . (21),
          ave vw = A2,            avetcu = B2,          aveun = C2 . (22);
 where U, V, W, A, B, C are six velocities independent of
the positions of the spaces in which the averages are taken.
 These equations are, however, infinitely short of implying,
though implied by, homogeneousness.
   9. Suppose now the distribution of motion to be isotropic.
 This implies, but is infinitely more than is implied by, the
 following equations in terms of the notation of § 8, with
further notation, R, to denote what we shall call the average
velocity of the turbulent motion :—
                             U2=V2=W2=£R2                                   (23),
                      0=A = B = C                                           (24).
   10. Largo questions now present themselves as to trans
put/. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 24. No. 149. Oct. 1887.                         2A

346      Sir W. Thomson on the Propagation of Laminar
formations which the distribution of turbulent motion will
experience in an infinite liquid left to itself with any distribu
tion given to it initially. If the initial distribution be homo
geneous through all large volumes of space, except a certain
large finite space, S, through which there is initially either
no motion, or turbulent motion homogeneous or not, but not
homogeneous with the motion through the surrounding space,
will the fluid which at any time is within S acquire more and
more nearly as time advances the same homogeneous distri
bution of motion as that of the surrounding space, till ulti
mately the motion is homogeneous throughout?
    11. If the answer were yes, could it be that this equaliza
tion would come to pass through smaller and smaller spaces
as time advances ? In other words, would any given distri
bution, homogeneous on a large enough scale, become more
and more fine-grained as time advances ? Probably yes for
some initial distributions ; probably no for others. Probably
yes for vortex motion given continuously through all of one
large portion of the fluid, while all the rest is irrotational.
    12. Probably no for the initial motion given in the shape
of equal and similar Helmholtz rings, of proportions suitable
for individual stability, and each of overall diameter consider
ably smaller than the average distance from nearest neighbour.
Prodably also no, though the rings be of very different volumes
and vorticities. But probably yes if the diameters of the rings,
or of many of them, be not small in comparison with dis
tances from neighbours, or if the individual rings, each an
endless slender filament, be entangled or nearly entangled
among one another.
    13. Again a question : If the initial distribution be homo
geneous and ozolotropic, will it become more and more isotropic
as time advances, and ultimately quite isotropic? Probably
yes, for any random initial distribution, whether of continuous
rotationally-moving fluid or of separate finite vortex rings.
 Possibly no for some symmetrical initial distribution of vortex
rings, conceivably stable.
    14 If the initial distribution be homogeneous and iso
tropic (and therefore utterly random in respect to direction),
will it remain so ? Certainly yes. I proceed to investigate
a mathematical formula, deducible from the answer, which
 will be of use to us later (§ 18). By (22) and (24) we have
                xzav uv = 0, for all values of t    . . . (25).
    But by (2) and (3) we find
d i         N           I d(uv)      d(uv)     d(uv)     dp , dp")
^(xzav uv) = -xza { u+^+v-^+w-^                             +

      Motion through a turbulently moving Tnviscid Liquid.   347
Hence
              d(uv) + »-T-J-
0_ = xzavi( u-V-i                d(uv) + t'-r
                       d(uv) + M'-ir-i        , dp \}• • (27)-
                                          dp +»r
            L dx         dy        dz     dx     dy )          '
This equation in fact holds for every random case of motion
satisfying (30) below, because positive and negative values of
m, v, w are all equally probable, and therefore the value of the
 second member of (27) is doubled by adding to itself what it
becomes when for u, v, w we substitute — u, — v, —w, which,
it may be remarked, and verified by looking at (5), does not
 change the value of p.
     15. We shall now suppose the initial motion to consist of
 a laminar motion [/(jf), 0, 0] superimposed on a homo
 geneous and isotropic distribution (u0, v0, w0) ; so that we
 have
          when t = 0, u=f(y) + u0, v = vw w = u>0 . (28);
 and we shall endeavour to find such a function, f{y, t), that
 at any time t the velocity-components shall be
                         f(y,t)+u,v,w                       (29),
 where it, v, w are quantities of each of which every large
 enough average is zero, so that particularly, for example,
                    0 = xzav u=xzav v=xzav w . . . (30).
     16. Substituting (29) for u, v, w in (2) we find
0 ,<ftl        (          , df(y,t)^k   ( da, du       du , dp\
     Take now xzav of both members. The second term of the
  first member and the second term of the second member dis
  appear, each in virtue of (30). The first and last terms of
  the second member disappear, each in virtue of (18) alone,
  and also each in virtue of (30). There remains
             dKy, 0             / du . du , du\             /oa.
             ^ — «T(n5+.^+«5) . . (32).
  To simplify, add to the second member [by (1)]
                n          ( du , dv        dic\            ,nas
                0= -xzav (u^+U^+U^). . .                 .  (33);
   and, the first and third pair of terms of the thus-modified
   second member vanishing by (18), find
                     *Jr*™                                   <*>•
      It is to be remarked that this result involves, besides (1),
                                 2 A2

348      Sir W. Thomson on the Propagation of Laminar
no other condition respecting (u, v, w) than (30) ; no iso-
tropy, no homogeneousness in respect to y ; and only homo-
geneousness of rdgime with respect to y and z, with no mean
translational motion.
    The ar-translational mean component of the motion is wholly
represented by f(y, f), and, so far as our establishment
of (34) is concerned, may be of any magnitude, great or
small relatively to velocity-components of the turbulent
motion. It is a fundamental formula in the theory of the
turbulent motion of water between two planes ; and I had
found it in endeavouring to treat mathematically my brother
Prof. James Thomson's theory of the " Flow of Water in
Uniform Regime in Rivers and other Open Channels''*. In
endeavouring to advance a step towards the law of distri
bution of the laminar motion at different depths, I was
surprised to discover the seeming possibility of a law of pro
pagation as of distortional waves in an elastic solid, which con
stitutes the conclusion of my present communication, on the
supposition of §15 that the distribution Uo, v0, ic0 is isotropic,
and that d/(y, t)/dy, divided by the greatest value off(y, t), is
infinitely small in comparison with the smallest values of in, n, q,
in the Fourier-formulae (6), (7), (8) for the turbulent motion.
    17. By (34) we see that, if the turbulent motion remained,
through time, 'isotropic as at the beginning, f(y, t) would
remain constantly at its initial value /(y). To find whether
the turbulent motion does remain isotropic, and, if it does
not, to find what we want to know of its deviation from
isotropy, let us find xzav^*r\ by (2) and (3), as follows:—
First, by multiplying (31) by v, and (3) by U, and adding, we
find
Taking xzav of this, and remarking that the first term of the
 first member disappears by (30), and the first term of the
 second member by (18), we find, with V2, as in §§ 8, 9, to
 denote the average y-component-velocity of the turbulent
motion,
                 !{»t(W)1--7»%3-Q                          .  . (36),
           • Proceedings of the Royal Society, Aug. 16, 1878.

     Motion through a turbulently moving Inviscid Liquid.    349
 where
    18. Let                                                /OQx
                            p = p + nr                     (38),
where p denotes what p would be if / were zero.       We find,
by (5),
and, by (27) and (37),
                  ,-.       / din , dts ¦                   ....
                  Q = xzaT^+V-/                            (40)>
    So far we have not used either the supposition of initial
 isotropy for the turbulent motion, or of the infinitesimalness
of d/fdy. We now must introduce and use both suppositions.
    19. To facilitate the integration of (39), we now use our
 supposition that ^/(y> 0> divided by the greatest value of
/(y, <), is infinitely small in comparison with m, n, q, which,
as is easily proved, gives
                    w = 2%0 dy J_J>
                                  —V*dx                    (41),
                                                           v '
by which (40) becomes
 Now, by (x, z) isotropy, we have
a        f d ,        d\„-adv0
2xzav(t,0^ + uo^)v ^
   =xzav{t'oGS+£)+(i,o£+icoS4} v_v (43)-
Performing integrations by parts for the last two terms of
the second member, and using (1), we find
      /.. d        d\ d     2            /dUo , dw0\ d I_,_2
xzav
                                       dv0 d „_2
                               = XZaV^V
and so we find, by (43) and (42),

 350      SirW. Thomson on the Propagation of Laminar
    20. Using now the Fourier expansion (7) for v0, we find
    rr-s      4'4$V5?             *> cos [mx + e) sin (wy+/) cos (qz+ff)
  -V t»0=222S2S^(m>BiS)                             ro» + n» + ?»
  Hence we find (with suffixes &c. dropped),
  and            d'J dV                                m* + n2 + <f         >
             ( d? , (F\„-j                „ „          (m2-H/2)/92
  Now, in virtue of the average uniformity of the constituent
  terms implied in isotropy and homogeneousness (§§ 7, 8, 9),
  the second member of (46) is equal to — |22SS2S ^r, and
                                                                       o
  therefore (§ 9) equal to — ^R2; and similarly we see that the
  second member of (47) is equal to + $RS. Hence, finally, by
  (44)'                   Q.= -4E.*M                                     (48),
 and (36) for < = 0, with ^R2 for V2 on account of isotropy,
 becomes f d                 * '                j d«y q ^
    The deviation from isotropy, which this equation shows, is
 very small, because of tbe smallness of df/dy ; and (27)
 does not need isotropy, but bolds in virtue of (30). Hence
  (49) is not confined to the initial values (values for t = 0) of the
  two members, because we neglect an infinitesimal deviation
  from |R2 in the first factor of the second member, considering
 the smallness of the second factor. Hence, for all values
 of t, unless so far as the " random " character referred to at
 the end of § 1 3 may be lost by a rearrangement of vortices
 vitiating (27),
                   ^xzav(Ut,)=-|R2^£) ....                              (50).
    21. Eliminating the first member fiom this equation, by
 (34), we find             <Pf           cPf
                           d?~itt&                                      W
 Thus we have the very remarkable result that laminar dis
 turbance is propagated according to tbe well-known mode of
waves of distortion in a homogeneous elastic solid ; and
that the velocity of propagation is -^R, or about "47 of tbe
   * Here and henceforth an averaging through y-spaces so small as to
cover no sensible differences of f(y,t), but infinitely large in proportion to
w'j is implied.

    Motion through a turbulently moving Tnviscid Liquid.      351
average velocity of the turbulent motion of the fluid. This
might seem to go far towards giving probability to the vortex
theory of the luminiferous ether, were it not for the doubtful
proviso at the end of § 20.
   22. If the undisturbed condition of the medium be a stable
symmetrical distribution of vortex-rings the suggested vitia
tion by " rearrangement " cannot occur. For example, let it
be such as is represented in fig. 1, where the small white and
                              Fig. 1.
               c        1                •
                                 1
                 l                 *
               ¦        :        [                •
                        i                1
                I      ,—i—      •                ¦
                       •                 ¦       c
               1
               I        0        •               ¦
black circles represent cross sections of the rings : the white
where the rotation is opposite to, and the black where it is in
the same direction as, the rotation of the hands of a watch
placed on the diagram facing towards the spectator. Imagine
first efich vortex-ring to be in a portion of the fluid contained
within a rigid rectangular box, of which four sides are indi
cated by the fine lines crossing one another at right angles
throughout the diagram ; and the other pair are parallel to
the paper, at any distance asunder we like to imagine. Sup
posing the volume of rotationally moving portion of the fluid
constituting the ring to be given, there is clearly one deter
minate shape, and diametral magnitude, in which it must be
given in order that the motion may be steady. Let it be so
given, and fill space with such rectangular boxes of vortices
arranged facing one another oppositely in the manner shown

352     Sir W. Thomson on the Propagation of Laminar
in the diagram. Annul now the rigidity of the sides of the
boxes. The motion continues unchangedly steady. But is
it stable, now that the rigid partitions are done away with ?
No proof has yet been given that it is. If it is, laminar
waves, such as waves of light, could be propagated through it ;
and the velocity of propagation would beRv'2/3 if the sides
of the ideal boxes parallel to the undisturbed planes of the rings
are square (which makes ave ll2 = ave w2), and if the dis
tance between the square sides of each box bears the proper
ratio to the side of the square to make ave »*= ave uJ= ave w2.
   23. Consider now, for example, plane waves, or laminar
vibrations, in planes perpendicular to the undisturbed planes
of the rings. The change of configuration of the vortices in
the course of a quarter period of a harmonic standing vibra
tion, f(y,t)= sin cot cos Kg (which is more easily illustrated
diagram matically than a wave or succession of waves), is illus
trated in fig. 2, for a portion of the fluid on each side of y = 0.
The upper part of the diagram represents the state of affairs
when< = 0; the lower when i = 7r/(2<o). But it must not be
overlooked, that all this §§ 22, 23 depends on the unproved
assumption that the symmetrical arrangement is stable.
   24. It is exceedingly doubtful, so far as I can judge after
much anxious consideration from time to time during these
last twenty years, whether the configuration represented in
fig. 1, or any other symmetrical arrangement, is stable when
the rigidity of the ideal partitions enclosing each ring sepa
rately is annulled throughout space. It is possible that the
rigidity of two, three, or more of the partitions may be an
nulled without vitiating the stability of the steady symmetric
motion ; but that if it be annulled through the whole of space,
for all the partitions, the symmetric motion is unstable, and
the rings shuffle themselves into perpetually varying relative
positions, with average homogeneousness, like the ultimate
 molecules of a homogeneous liquid. 1 cannot see how, under
these conditions, the " vitiating rearrangement " referred to
at the end of § 20 can be expected not to take place within
 the period of a wave or vibration. To suppose the overall
 diameter of each ring to be very small in proportion to its
 average distances from neighbours, so that the crowd would be
 analogous rather to the molecules of a gas than to those of a
 liquid, would not help us to escape the vitiating rearrange
 ment which would be analogous to that investigated by Max
 well in his admirable kinetic theory of the viscosity of' gases.
 I am thus driven to admit, in conclusion, that the most
 favourable verdid I can ask for the propagation of laminar
 waves through a turbulently moving inviscid liquid is the
 Scottish verdict of not proven.

Motion through a turhulently moving Inviscid Liquid.                 353
                                Fig. 2.
    («») neg.
          p08.
            0
             r
                             I
          nog.            <
                                        Q
         /pos.                                               I («ti)=0
                                                             'passim.
      df
       •f pos.
                                                           z
Here («») means an average of the lind described in the footnote on (46).

                            [  354    ]
XLVI. On the remarkable Relationships between the Spectrum
   of Water-vapour and the Line-spectra of Hydrogen and
   Oxygen, and on the Chemical Structure of the two latter,
   and their Dissociation in the Sun's Atmosphere. By Prof.
   A. GrOnwald*.
BY means of a mathematical investigation into the changes
        which the properties, and in particular the spectra, of
two gases undergo upon their chemical combination to form
a new substance, I have succeeded in discovering the law, as
simple as it is important, of a new mathematico-chemical
disturbance-theory ; and by its aid in finding very remark
able relationships between the spectra of hydrogen and oxygen
on the one hand, and of water-vapour on the other, as well as
discovering the chemically compound nature of hydrogen and
oxygen by mathematico-spectral analysis, and in demonstra
ting the dissociation of hydrogen in the sun's atmosphere.
                                L
   The above-mentioned fundamental theorem is as follows:—
   " Let a be a primary chemical element, which is chemically
combined with other elements in a gaseous substance A, and
occupies the volume [a] in the unit-volume of A. Let the
substance A combine chemically with another gaseous sub
stance, B, to form a third, C. In this combination let the
element a pass into a different chemical condition, a', giving
up (or in exceptional cases taking up) a certain quantity of
heat in order to permit the new compound to form, and in
consequence chemically contracting (or exceptionally expand
ing). Let the volume which it occupies in the body C, after
the new condition of chemical equilibrium has been established,
be [a'], when the quotient [a] : [a'] is generally a very simple
rational number in accordance with a known fundamental law
of chemistry. If this is the case, the wave-lengths \ of all
the rays which belong to the element a in the line-spectrum
of the free substance A, and are therefore radiated by it, are
related to the wave-lengths X' of the corresponding raj-s which
the same element emits in the new chemical condition a', in
which it exists in the more complex substance A within the
newly formed compound (J, as the corresponding volumes [a]
and [a']."
   This theorem only holds good when the substances in ques
tion are gases which are at a considerable distance from the
critical point of condensation, and are not under too great
     * Communicated by the Author from the Astr. NacAr. Bd. 117.

               On the Spectrum of Water-vapour.               355
pressure. The modifications which it requires when these
conditions are not fulfilled, as well as the simple and natural
assumptions upon which the proof of the theorem rests, can
only be given in a fuller communication.
   From the above proposition it follows in particular that for
[a'] = [a], i. e. if the volume of the element a in the new
compound C is the same as in the original substance A, the
wave-lengths X' of the rays emitted by «' must be equal to the
wave-lengths X previously produced by a. The only differ
ence will consist simply in a varying change in the ampli
tudes and consequently in the intensities of the individual
rays ; from which it results that the brightness of a whole
series of rays is so much diminished that they cease to be
visible, whereas others become brighter. Thus the spectra of
the compounds formed by the union of hydrogen with chlorine,
bromine, and iodine (viz. HC1, HBr, HI) consist only of the
spectra of hydrogen on the one hand, and of chlorine, bromine,
or iodine on the other, but with characteristic changes of in
tensity of the various rays of their components.
   The limitation to the gaseous condition is necessary because,
as in chemistry generally so here, easily observable relation
ships exist only for gases. If the pressure increases, or if the
gaseous substances in consequence of falling temperature (or
with simultaneous increase of pressure) approach the tempe
rature of liquefaction, the number of impacts between two
different molecules will be increased under otherwise similar
conditions ; and the number of vibrations of the equivalent
smallest particles of the different similarly constituted mole
cules of the same substance are altered in varying fashion by
varying impacts. Whilst in the former case equivalent cor
responding smallest particles of different similarly constituted
molecules of the samo substance emit extraordinarily feeble
rays of equal wavo-length, which in the spectrum are super
 posed, and by addition of their extremely small intensities
 produce a single ray of perceptible brightness, in the latter
 case equivalent particles of different like-constituted molecules
 emit not only rays of normal period, but also rays of periods
 more or less different from the normal, which arise from the
 impacts of different kinds. Together with the normal line,
 we have close to it rays of the latter kind—that is, the original
 sharp line becomes widened. If the pressure increases and
 the gases approach their point of liquefaction, such a line
 becomes still further widened ; and it may happen that the
 resulting band-like line may extend as far as lines due to
 heterogeneous particles of the different molecules of the same
 substance. The lines of the spectrum run together, and there

356     Prof. A. Griinwald on the Spectrum of Water-vapour
results a more or less continuous spectrum, in which only some
light-maxima show the position of the former chief lines of
the normal spectrum.
                               II.
    The most important of the highly remarkable relationships
between the line spectra of H, 0, and H80 vapour are :—
    (1) " All the waves of the second or so-called compound-
line spectrum of hydrogen, which have been so admirably
determined by Dr. B. fiasselberg, of Pulkowa, and which are
due to a more complicated structure of H molecules, may
(after exclusion of the lines belonging to the elementary line-
spectrum) be converted into corresponding wave-lengths of
the water-spectrum by multiplying by
    This proposition, which was discovered at first empirically
 (for a large number of rays) by comparison of the second
hydrogen-spectrum with the water-spectrum as far as known
at the time, and then theoretically by means of theorem I.,
recognized as holding good generally, is, according to I., a
simple consequence of the fact that the modified hydrogen-
molecule H' in H20-vapour occupies exactly half the volume
it occupies in the free condition. This observation put me in
possession of a large number of previously unknown wave
lengths of the water-spectrum, of those namely which hy
drogen produces under the influence of the oxygen in water-
vapour, and enabled me to send (on May 9, 1887) to Prof. (x. D.
Liveing, at Cambridge, a long list of hitherto unknown wave
lengths of the water-spectrum for the purpose of experimen
tally testing the correctness of my mathematico-chemical
disturbance-theory ; a prediction which, as I am informed by
letters of the 19th and 21st of June from Prof. Liveing, has
been verified in the most satisfactory manner, as far as the
observations have yet been made. The correspondence is
shown for the rays from A = 2800 to 2607-8 and from \= 2603
to 2449, in the following Table.
    It has not yet been possible to verify the rest of the lines
predicted by me on the 9th of May, from \ = 2449 to \= 2207,
on account of their extreme feebleness. Below 2200 Messrs.
Liveing and Dewar have not yet been able to detect any lines
of the water- spectrum. Nevertheless, according to my theory,
there must exist a still more refrangible section of the water-
spectrum of altogether extraordinary feebleness, the wave
lengths of which correspond to the wave-lengths of the
hydrogen-spectrum given by Dr. B. Hasselberg in his Zusatz
zu seinen Untersuchungen uber das II. Wasserstoffspektrum,
1884.

       and the Line-spectra of Hydrogen and Oxygen.    357
                     Letter of June 19.
         Predicted.  Observed.   Predicted. Observed.
            2800-5      2799-8     26825    / 2683-5
            2798-5      2797-6              12683-0
            2792-5      27938      2677-5     2077-3
            2768-5      2768-3     2672       2671 1
            2759        2759-7     2667-5   / 2668-2
            2753        27631               12666-0
            2749        2748-2     2660       2659-6
            2742        27427      2652       2651-3
            2731-6   f 2732-1      2646-6      2645-6
                     1 2730-5      26425    f 2642-2
            2718-5   / 2718-2               12640-4
                     1 2717-2      2637-5   f 2638-5
            2713-5      2713-6              1 2636-8
            2710        2709-5     2633        2633-3
            2705-5    f 2706-2     2629-5      2631-1
                     1 2705-2      2623-6   / 2624-1
            2699-5    f 27015               1 2623-3
                     1 2699-7      2615-5      2614-9
            2693-5   J 2693-7      2612        2611-0
                     \2693-2       2607-5      2608-3
            2687     j 2687-6
                     12687-2
                      Letter of June 26.
          Predicted. Observed.   Predicted.  Observed.
            2603        2603-2     2616     / 25176
            2599        2598-6              1 2515-1
            2595-5      2596-4     2508-5    f 2509-0
            2591        2591-3               12508 0
            2585        2584-4     2491        249H
            2578-5      2578-3     2487-5      2487-2
            2572-5      2573-4     2484      f 2484-9
            2564-5      2565-4               1 2483-7
            2556        2656-4     2479        2479 3
            2542        2542-7     2473-5      2474-5
            2535      f 2536-6     2467-5      24671
                     1 2534-1      2464-5       2464-5
            2532-5      25314      2460-5      24600
            2528        2529-2     2454-5      2454-7
            2525        2524-2     2449         2449-3
            2520-5    f 2521-7
                      12519-8
  The wave-lengths of the relatively somewhat brighter lines
of this section of the water-spectrum are 2248-7, 2244-8,
2230-1, 2223-5, 2205-8, 2173-5, 2169-4, 2111-0, 2110-8,

358    Prof. A. Griinwald on the Spectrum of Water-vapour
2105-9, 2102-2, 2099-6, 2097-5, 2090 8, 2089-7, 2088-2,
2087-2, 2085-3, 2078-0, 2038-7, 2034-6, 2033-2, 2031-0.
   The experimental verification of this prediction can only
succeed with an altogether special arrangement of apparatus.
Possibly the use of several sparks or flames, one behind the
other, striking through moist gas (or a broad stream of water-
vapour)*, and the observation of the rays emitted in the
direction of the line joining them, might succeed, since the
rays emitted by the more distant sparks (or flames) would
strengthen the vibrations which were produced by those nearer
the observing-telescope. It might also be advisable, in accord
ance with a suggestion of my colleague, Prof. Zenger, to
bathe the photographic plates in a solution of chlorophyll as
concentrated as possible, and then to dry them.
    (2) " The wave-lengths of the elementary line-spectrum of
hydrogen may be divided into two groups, (a) and (b) ; so
that the wave-lengths of the one group (a) are transformed
into corresponding wave-lengths of the water-spectrum by
multiplication by the constant 0-6336 (very nearly                 and
those of the other group (b) by multiplication of the con
stant
   From this it follows, by means of theorem I., that hydrogen
consists of two primary elements, a and b ; of which the one,
a, produces the group (a) under the influence of b ; the second,
b, produces the group (b) under the influence of a. If [a]
and [&] are relatively the volumes which the substances a and
b occupy in a unit-volume of hydrogen, then
                             [a] + [6]=l,
and, further,
whence
              [a]: [6] -4:1,         [a] -J,    [&]-*.
 Hence hydrogen is a compound of one volume of the primary
 substance b, with four volumes of the other primary sub
 stance a: }l = bai.        It is thus a compound analogous to
 ammonium, NH„ of which the volume will increase in the
 ratio 2 : 3 upon dissociation at a sufficiently high temperature.
    The substance a is the lightest of all gaseous substances—
 much lighter than hydrogen ; and the substance b is, if we
 assume a to be a monovalent element, also a gaseous element
 and pentavalent similar to nitrogen. The line-spectra of the
       * Or better, of several such hydrogen flames in oxygen gas.

        and the Line-spectra of Hydrogen and Oxygen.             359
primary substances a and b may now easily be calculated by
means of (I.) from tbe corresponding groups (a) and (b) by
multiplication with the factor f , in which operation, unfortu
nately, the errors of the wave-lengths increase in the same
proportion. The star-spectra described by Mr. Huggins in
the Philosophical Transactions (1880 ) vol.clxxi. partii. pp. 669-
690, those namely of a. Aquilse and Arcturus, of which the
most refrangible rays are hydrogen-rays, and by comparison
with the water-spectrum in accordance with (2) and with tho
solar spectrum may be confirmed as hydrogen-lines and cor
rected, enable us to fully complete the hydrogen-spectrum
as far as known in the ultra-violet portion, and to construct a
very complete spectrum of the primary element b. I give
here the spectra which I have calculated for the elements (a)
and (b) of hydrogen, comparing them with tho corresponding
Fraunhofer- and chromosphere-lines.
   The wave-lengths of the Fraunhofer-lines were taken at
once from a good copy of Angstrom's Atlas, and those of the
chromospheric lines from Young's second list. I propose to
go over the calculations and comparisons as soon as I have at
my disposal Thol Ion's Nouveau Dessin du Spectre Solaire,
Piazzi Smyth's < The Visual Solar Spectrum in 1884/ and
especially A. Rowland's 'Photographic Map of the Solar
Spectrum.'
             Spectrum of                      Solar spectrum
              element a.                       of Angstrom.
           X= 9842-4
                7290-2'                            7290
                6510-2                             6511
                6150-6                             6150-5
               5653-5 &c                           5653-3
                                                            o
(With possible errors amonnting to a unit of Angstrom's
scale. The first two wave-lengths are much more exact than
the following ones, because they are derived from the wave
lengths of Ha and Hp, as measured with the greatest care by
Mendenhali.)
          Coincides nearly with a telluric line 7290 3 (Fievez).

360     Prof. A. Griinwald on the Spectrum of Water-vapour
      Spectrum of Solar   spectrum,
                      acco rding to Spectrum of Solar  spectrum,
                                                   according to
       element b.      An jstrom.    element b.     Angstrom.
         5954               5953-9    5593-3            5593
         5951-8             5951-6    55773             5577-5
         5943               5943-5    5560-1            5559-6
         5940               5940      5535-6             5536-2
         5924-4             5923-5    5524-3            5524-8
         5916               5915-4    5515-9            5515-5
         5904               5904-6    5511              5511-2
         5899-3             5899      5494-1            5493-8
         5897               5897      5485-5            5485-6
         5892-1             58921     5482-3            5482-5
         5886             / 5885-5    5479-5            5479-9
                          \ 5886-5    54551             5454-8
         5874-5     Ohrom. 5874 9               Chrom. 5454-7
                      Helium-line.    5417-2    Chrom. 5417 9
         5855-4             5855-2    5412-6    Chrom. 5412-4
         5833               5832-5    5403-7    Ohrom. 54031
      Several lines       f 5808-2                    / 5403-0 to
          from              5807-2                    \5403-3
         5808            < 5805-7     5389-5            5389-6
          to                5804-4    5376-4            5376-5
         5805               5803-5    6364-0          f 53640 Fe.
      Several lines       1 5793                      1 5364-2
          from              5792-4    53400     Ohrom. 5340-2 Fe.?
         5793               5790-3                     'Mn.?
           to               5786-8    5326-5            5327-0 Fe.
         5784               5784-5    52741             5274-7
                            5783-0    52601             5259-6
         5775               5774      5199-9    Ohrom. 5199-7
         5752-6           / 5752-2    6187-0    Chrom. 5187-3
                          \5751-8               Probablj titanium.
         5694-1             5694
         5618-2             56180                       Ac.
   Although the fundamental law I. was originally obtained
only for compounds of primary elements, it is important to
observe that it holds very nearly for compounds of compound
radicals, so far as these reallj' behave as " atoms." A proof
of this, which is at the same time interesting and an important
confirmation of my theorem, is the fact that the wave-lengths
of all the hydrogen and oxygen rays, if multiplied by § (the
mean condensation-factor of H and 0 upon their combination
to H20), are converted into the wave-lengths of corresponding
H20 rays, at least so far as the H20 spectrum is known, and
can be compared with them.
   (3) In the search for the reduction-factor of the primary
constituent a of hydrogen to the H30 spectrum several remark
able relationships were obtained. It appeared that the ray
4158, into which the chief ray H„ 6562 of H is converted by
multiplication with 0-6336, is an hitherto unknown (as such)
ray of the water-spectrum, and that by means of the factor j$

         and the Line-spectra of Hydrogen and Oxygen.      361
it yields another strong ray (\=3080) of the H20-spectrum.
The ray 4158 occurs, namely, amongst a group (3986, 4005,
to 4645) of rays which H. W. Vogel has observed in the
spectrum of rarefied hydrogen (whether obtained electrolyti-
cally or from potassium fonniate), the derivation of which
from hydrogen was, however, very doubtful. In view of the
fact that in these methods of preparation of hydrogen it is
difficult to avoid the presence of traces of water-vapour, it
was a probable assumption that €*it least some of the doubtful
rays, and amongst them in particular the ray 4158, might
arise from the traces of water-vapour contained in this hy
drogen, and might be rays in themselves very weak in presence
of hydrogen, but which, being reinforced by harmonic vibra
tions of the latter, become visible. If this surmise were cor
rect, it might be expected that the wave-lengths of those of
Vogel's rays which belong to the same group of HsO rays aa
4158 might also be reduced to the H20-spectrum by multi
plication with the factor jja. The supposition was verified in
a remarkable manner, in particular for the rays 3986, 4005,
4047, 4065, 4067, 4078, 4152, 4158, 4168, 4193, 4201, &c,
so that these belong to the H20-spectrum ; and by division
by 0-6336 are converted into very feeble rays of hydrogen,
hitherto unknown, with the exception of Ha, which on account
of their extreme feebleness have escaped observation. Their
approximate wave-lengths are placed together with the nearest
lines of the solar spectrum, as given by Angstrom.
             II-rays.                  Solar spectrum
                                         (Angstrom).
             6291                         6291-4
             6321                         6321-5
             6387-3                          ?
             6415-7                       6415-6
                                      (Chromosphere,
                                            Young).
             6418-9                        6418-7
             6436-2                     (6438? Ca)
             6553-0                          ?
          Ha 6562                         6562
             6578-3                       6576-9?
                                      (Chromosphere,
                                           Young) .
             6617-7                          ?
             6630-3                          ?
       With a possible error of 1*6 of Angstrom's unit.
Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 24. No. 149. Oct. 1887.         2 B

362     Prof. A. Griinwald on the Spectrum of Water-vapour
     A careful comparison of the spectra of hydrogen inten
 tionally mixed with various very small quantities of HsO-
 vaponr is much to be desired, and ought to produce the
 experimental confirmation of the origin of the rays 3986,
 4005, 4007, . . . 4201, &c. The ray 4158 lies very near to a
 veiy weak ray, 4158-7, of the second so-called compound
spectrum of hydrogen observed by Dr. B. Hasselberg, it
 indeed the latter be not identical with it, having its origin in
the presence of a trace of aqueous vapour. The same ray
was moreover observed in air and in oxygen, in the mode
adopted by Pliicker.
    (4) a. " The wave-lengths of the elementary line- spectrum
of oxygen may be divided into two groups, (H7) and (O'), of
which the first consists of certain rays of the second compound
H-spectrum, which are converted into the corresponding rays
of the water-spectrum by multiplication with
    /8. " The groups (O') may be divided into two groups, (£>')
and (O") ; so that the one (¥) by multiplication by §§ passes
into a group of the corresponding wave-lengths of the H20-
spectrum, but by multiplication by        into a group of homo
logous wave-lengths of the primary substance b chemically
combined in H, whilst the other group (O") may be con
verted into a corresponding group of the HsO-spectruin by
multiplying it by ft.
    y. Finally, the last group (O") may again be resolved into
two groups (b") and (c) of wave-lengths. The first of these
(//') multiplied by §\ gives a group of the H20-spectrum, and
multiplied by M is reduced to a corresponding group of the
H-spectrum which belongs to the primary substance b in H.
    The second group (c) by multiplication by j! is transformed
into a homologous group of H20-rays."
    From these most important and remarkable relationships
and characteristic data, which are not derived from single
rays, but by the comparison of whole series of numerous rays
of oxygen, H20-vapour, and hydrogen, we obtain by means
of the fundamental theorem I. easily, and at once, the che
mical structureof oxygen in theintervalof temperaturein which
it radiates the elementary line-spectrum. If in fact H', C,
b', 0", b", c be the substances which, in their combined con
dition within the oxvgen, emit the above similarly-denoted
  roups of rays, (H)', (0'), (&'), (0"), (&")> and (c), and
  H']> [°']> n [0"]i [&"], and [c] be the volumes which
   ey occupy in a unit-volume of oxygen, we have the equations
                      m=h        [0'i=i

        and the Line-spectra of Hydrogen and Oxygen.       363
and in accordance with theorem I., in view of the facts stated
under (4)/8,
                  §i[*']+t[0"]«§[0']=i,
whence
                      •[V] : [0"] = 4: 5,
and
             [6']=4[0'] = 2 [0"]=3[0']=A.
But, further,
is the space which 0" occupies within the oxygen in H30-
vapour ; then
                    [y'] + M=[0"]=A;
and according to theorem L, taken with the facts of 4(7), we
have
                 SK*"]+$M=t[0"]=t&;
whence, again,
                     **[&"] : [c]=4: 5,
and
                  [&'']=*[0"]=$xA=if,
                  w=«[0"]=m-
   The chemical structure of oxygen in the above-named
interval of temperature is therefore expressed by the chemical
volume-formula
             0=H'.0', 0' = 64.0"6, 0"=hc6.
             0=H'. [&40"e]«H'. ft. (*«*).]•
   That is to say, "Oxygen in its simplest molecular condition
is a compound of the modified hydrogen H', which radiates
the second so-called compound line-spectrum of hydrogen,
with a substance 0' in equal volumes without condensation.
The latter 0' is a compound of four volumes of the pentavalent
 (nitrogen-like) element b of hydrogen in a special condition
of chemical condensation with five volumes of a substance 0",
which itself again consists of four volumes of the primary ele
ment b (in one of the former various chemical conditions)
with five volumes of a new hitherto unknown primary sub
stance."
   As I have here deduced the chemical structure of H and 0
by a mathematico-spectroscopic method, so I should no doubt
be able to determine the chemical structure of the so-called
elements nitrogen and carbon by means of my chemical theory
of disturbance, if I were furnished by skilful spectroscopists
with complete and trustworthy lists of the wave-lengths of
                              2 B2

364    Prof. A. Griinwald on the Spectrum of Water-vapour
ammonia, NH3, and of methane, CH4, at the low temperature
of electric discharge (to avoid dissociation) or the absorption-
spectra of these gases. These spectra must extend in the
ultra-violet portion as far as wave-lengths 1728 X 10-7 millim.
and 1383 x 10-7 millim., and, if possible, still further.
    Hitherto, so far as nitrogen is concerned, I have only suc
ceeded in showing that it is in its simplest chemical condition
 (like oxygen) a compound of the modified hydrogen H' with
a substance N' in equal volumes without condensation ; and
that the latter substance W must have an entire large group
of atoms in common with oxygen, inasmuch as a group of
more than forty N-rays (i. e. their wave-lengths) may be
transformed by multiplication by the factor ^ into a corre
sponding group of O-rays (i. e. their wave-lengths) .
    The volume-fonnula of nitrogen has most probably the same
form as that of oxygen, only written with smaller indices
because the atomic weight of nitrogen (14) is less by 2 than
the atomic weight of oxygen.
    In carbon also I was able, by simple comparison of the
spectrum with those of H20-vapour, of H, and of O, to
establish the existence of the primary substance b in at
least two different chemical conditions, as well as the occur
rence of the primary substance c, which is also contained in
oxygen.
    (5) a. In the experiments which I made to determine the
factor of reduction (0*6336, very nearly ^g) for the substance
a in H to the H20-spectrum, I found that this factor is the
mean or chief reduction-factor of the four atoms which in H
are combined with the substance b ; but that further special
reduction-factors to the H20-spectrum belong to the separate
atoms of these four, of which I succeeded in determining two,
viz. f and ^g, and in verifying them, at least so far as they
could be compared with the known H20-spectrum.
   If then X be the wave-length of an H-ray of the elementary
line-spectrum which is due to the substance a in H, then
0*6336 X (empirically, theoretically more nearly JgX), £X,
and f% X are with considerable accuracy three different wave
lengths of the H-jO-spectrum, if the latter is known with
sufficient exactness.
   /S. If, on the other hand, X be the wave-length of an H-ray
which is produced by the substance b combined in H with the
element a, then not only must § X be a wave-length of the
H20-spectrum according to (2), but also according to (4) /S (or
(4) 7, as the case may be)       ^ and I § ^ must be two wave
lengths of the O-spectrum j further, f| x £f X and        X    X
must be two wave-lengths of the H20-spectrum, and recog

         and the Line-spectra of Hydrogen and Oxygen.       365
nizable as such, provided that the elementary O-spectrum is
known sufficiently exactly, which is unfortunately not the
case with very faint rays.
   We are thus in possession of mathematico-spectroscopic
criteria for the hydrogen-rays, which possess an unmistakable
resemblance to the chemical reactions for the detection and
recognition of substances.
                               III.
     The Dissociation of Hydrogen in the Sun's Atmosphere.
   A careful comparison of the lines of the above-described
spectrum of the primary element b with the corresponding
Fraunhofer and chromospheric lines, as given above, shows
that the element b must occur in the free state in the sun's
atmosphere, and must be identical with helium, of which
hitherto only one ray, Ds 5874-9, is known. Hence, as well as
by the close agreement of the lines of the a-spectrum, also
given above, with corresponding lines of the solar spectrum,
it is proved that hydrogen occurs in the sun's atmosphere in a
dissociated condition.
   But if this is the case the constituent a must not only be
present wherever the dissociation takes place, together with the
helium b, but as the lightest of all gases it must exist above
those regions of the photosphere which can only be reached
by the much heavier helium and the other elements excep
tionally in powerful eruptions.
   But if this occurs, and if in these very high and relatively
cool regions the helium b and the primary substance a meet,
then, under the extremely small pressure existing there, all
the conditions are present for the formation of the modified
ammonium-like hydrogen, which radiates the second com
pound hydrogen-spectrum. Such regions, which correspond
to the extreme portion of the corona, will therefore specially
exhibit the lines of the second hydrogen-spectrum together
with those of ordinary hydrogen.
   The hitherto unknown corona-substance appears to be a gas
with the properties indicated above, which emits the so-far
solitary known ray at 1474 of Kirchhoff's scale, or \ = 53159
 (about) of Angstrom's scale, and winch I may perhaps be
allowed to call " Coronium." It is easy, then, to assume that
the primary constituent a of hydrogen is identical with this
coronium, which, in any case, must be a different substance
from helium, since the corona-line 5315"9 often remains
unaltered, whilst at the same time the helium-line D3 is
either broadened, or distorted and displaced, i. e. exhibits

366     Dissociation of Hydrogen in the Sun's Atmosphere.
the changes in form observed by Lockyer. If this assump
tion is correct, \=5315"9 (about) must be a wave-length of
the above a-spectrum, which does not occur amongst the
numbers found by calculation only because the wave-lengths
corresponding to the element a in hydrogen are not com
pletely known. In this case \=5315'9x§ must be a wave
length of the elementary H-spectrum. It is true that the
wave-length (about) § x 5315-9 = 3544-0 (about) does not occur
in the list of wave-lengths at present known as belonging
to hydrogen ; but if we take the extremely rich section of the
HgO-spectrum corresponding to the second hydrogen-spectrum
as given by Dr. Hasselberg (see II. (1)) for the comparison, it
satisfies in a very complete manner the criteria given (II. (5) a)
for hydrogen-rays which belong to the substance a within the
hydrogen, since*        x 3544-0 = 2244-5, j X 3544-0 = 2658-0,
and      x 3544-0 = 2646-1 differ only by a few tenths of an
Angstrom unit (10-7 millim.) from the corresponding wave
lengths of the H20-spectrum: 2244-8, 2658-6, and 2645-4.
The ray at about \= 3544-0 is, therefore, an hitherto unknown
ray of hydrogen, the existence of which will probably be
shown experimentally ; \= 5315-9 is a wave-length of the
primary element a (previously overlooked in this calculation
for want of sufficient data), which is, therefore, probably
identical with coronium. I must not omit to remark that the
line 5317-28 of the second hydrogen-spectrum described by
Dr. B. Hasselberg in 1883 lies very near to the corona-line
5315-9; and from what has been said above might possibly be
observed, together with other lines of the latter spectrum, in
the comparatively cooler regions of the corona far removed
from the photosphere. If these two lines are really different,
it must be possible, under favourable circumstances, to observe
both lines at the same time in the corona—5315'9 in the hot
portion nearer the photosphere, and the other in the less hot
regions further from the photosphere, for which observation
a favourable opportunity offers in the total solar eclipse of the
18th August.
    The like holds good of the known chromosphere-line
X =4471-2 of Rayet (Lorenzoni's /), which differs by only
0-3 from the nearest line of that part of the second hydrogen-
spectrum which Dr. B. Hasselberg has described in 1884
 (Zusatz zu meinen Untersuchungen) , viz. the line \=4470"9;
so also with the chromosphere-line 4712-5, which, like the
former line 447T2, is rather a band than a line, and like this
is ascribed to Ce, but differs from the nearest line of the
second H-spectrum only by 0'6.
   The line 4471-2, which I was disposed to take for a helium

                   Notices respecting Neic Books.            367
line, does not belong to helium, because it does not satisfy
all the mathematico-spectroscopic criteria of helium-lines.
This is also confirmed by the observations made by Prof.
Young on August 3 and 5, 1872, in wbicb, at the same time
that D3, 5015*0, 4571*4, &c, were very strongly disturbed,
the lines 4471*2, 7055, and the corona-line 5315*9 remained
unaltered. I wish particularly to observe, with reference
to the forthcoming solar eclipse, that my calculations and
comparisons show that the lines Fievez's 4612*5, 4564*5,
Young's 5570, 5450, Tacchini's 4943, 5031, and (what is
very important) two lines very near to the magnesium-lines
£>, and bs, belong to helium; the line 7055 (?) very probably
to coronium ; lastly, the lines observed May 17, 1882, by
Capt. Abney and Dr. Schuster in Egypt (4501, 4473, 440i,
4224, 4212, 4195, 4179, 4085, and 4067), as well as at least
one of the four red corona-lines (6489, 6492, 6494, 6498),
seen simultaneously by Tacchini, viz. 6492 (if not all four),
belong to the second compound spectrum of hydrogen.
    The lines seen in the corona by the last-named spectro-
 scopists and astronomers ought, therefore, in accordance with
what has been said above, to originate in the comparatively
cooler portions of the corona far removed from the photosphere,
in which the elements of hydrogen separated in the hotter
regions partly unite to form the common hydrogen, partly to
 form the ammonium-like hydrogen which produces the second
hydrogen-spectrum .
    F.S. Whilst passing through the press/a new and remark
 able confirmation of the wave-lengths of the water-spectrum
 predicted by me on May 9, 1887, has reached me from Prof.
 G. D. Liveing, viz.\=2331*l to X=2437*2.
   Prague, July 17, 1887.
              XLVII. Notices respecting New Books.
  Coal-Tar and Ammonia. Being tlie Second and enlarged Edition of
    ' A Treatise on the Distillation of Coal-Tar and Ammoniacal
    Liquor.' By George Lunge, Ph.D., Professor of Technical
    Chemistry in the Federal Polytechnic ScJiool, Zurich. London :
    Gurney and Jackson, 1 Paternoster Row (Successors to Mr.
    Van Voorst). 1887.
WE had occasion to speak favourably of the first edition of this
         work when it appeared in 1882. At that time it consisted
 of 383 pages and 88 diagrams ; it now forms a handsome well-
printed volume of no less than 739 pages of letterpress and 191
 diagrams.

368                Notices respecting New Books.
    Dr. Lunge, in his Introduction, notices the enormous reduction
in the prices of coal-tar and its various products which has taken
place since 1883. At that time coal-tar fetched at the gas-works
55*. and pitch 33*. to 35*. per ton, benzol, of 90-per-cent., was
worth 3s. ; whereas in 1885 tar had fallen lo 12*., and in 1886 to
7*. and 90-per-eent. benzol to 1*. Sd. per gallon. According to
the, ' Journal of Gas-lighting,' tar, on August 27, 1887, was 10*. to
15*. per ton, and benzol, of 90-per-cent. 2s. 10c?. per gallon; and
this in spite of the fact that the great gas-companies are burning
large quantities of their tar ! It is not difficult to see the cause of
this depreciation. It arises from the fact that the tar produced in
Europe is more than is required by the makers of aniline colours
and other tar products. The demand is not equal to the supply.
The Introduction also contains much interesting matter, in the form
of Historical Notes and Statistics, which we commend to the notice
of all who are interested in the coal-tar industry.
    As regards the various processes for obtaining coal-tar, the
working of coke-ovens, the preparation of benzene from the various
 tars, including that obtained by subjecting petroleum to high tem
peratures, the work contains the fullest information, including
 diagrams of the ovens and other appliances, and lists of the patents
 bearing on the subject.
     Chapter III., on " The Properties of Coal-tar and its Consti
 tuents," is not only very interesting, but contains more information
 in proportion to its length (GO pages) than in any other work we
 have seen.
     The question of burning tar as fuel, now so much agitating gas-
 companies, is treated fully, and excellent illustrations are given of
 the apparatus best adapted for the purpose.
     Chapter V. is on " The First Distillation of Coal-tar," and is
 treated with a fullness and clearness which leaves nothing to be
 desired.
     Chapter VI. is on " Pitch," and in it we have instructions for
 the testing of the various qualities. We do not remember to have
 seen these methods in print previously.
     Chapter VII. is on " Anthracene Oil." All the best methods of
 extracting the anthracene and testing it for its purity are given.
 The illustrations of filter-presses, washing-apparatus, &c are excel
 lent. The only part of this section which leaves anything to be
  desired is the estimation of the quantity of anthracene in tar.
  Unfortunately no thoroughly reliable mode of doing this has, so far
  as we know, yet been made public.
     Chapter VIII. is on " Creosote Oil." This section is very com
  plete. The various processes which have been devised for decom
  posing the oil by heat, so as to obtain more valuable products, are
  described and illustrated. The attempts to utilize creosote oil for
  lighting are described, and diagrams of the apparatus devised by
  Hartinann and Lucke, and Lvle and Hannay are given. The sec
  tion on the " Employment of Creosote Oil for Pickling Timber"

              Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.               369
runs to 24 pages ; and the specifications of Abel and Tidy, and also
the views of Mr. S. B. Boulton (who is, perhaps, the highest autho
rity on the subject living) are given. We should have liked, in this
place, to see Dr. Lunge's views as to the part played by the organic
alkaloids in creosote oil in the preservation of pickled timber.
   Chapter IX. is on " Carbolic Acid and Naphthalene." The me
thods of preparing carbolic acid of various degrees of purity are
given in considerable detail, and also the most reliable modes of
testing the various commercial products. The best plans for sub
liming and distilling naphthalene are also fully described. This
chapter extends to no less than 56 pages, every one of which is
interesting and useful.
    Chapter X. is on " Light Oil and Crude Naphtha." This portion
does not admit of any specially original treatment, as the methods
 now in use are not very different from what they were some years
 ago.
    Chapter XL, on " Kectifying by Steam ; Final Products," is of
 great value, and will be greatly appreciated by practical tar-distillers.
 The stills best adapted for the purpose are represented by engra
 vings, and explained in a clear and simple manner. Savalle's and
 Siemens's apparatus are described very fully, and the directions for
 their use are sufficient to enable any chemist to work them. The
 various kinds of benzols, toluols, and naphthas of commerce, with
 their boiling-points, and the apparatus used for determining the
 latter, are all given, as also the processes for determining the various
 constituents of coal-naphtha. The chapt er concludes with a synop
 tical table of the distillation of coal-tar.
    Chapter XII. commences the second part of the work, which is
 on Ammonia, by an exhaustive account of the various sources from
 which that substance is obtained. Then follows Chapter XIII.,
 which gives the composition and analysis of am nioniaeal liquor and
 the properties of its constituents. Chapter XIV. is on "The
 "Wbrking-iip of Ammoniacal Liquor. The work concludes with an
 Addenda giving a large amount of varied information, much of
 which will doubtless be incorporated with the earlier articles in
 subsequent editions.
    This work of Dr. Lunge is by far the most extensive and the
 best which has appeared in our language on the products of coal-
 tar, and will be indispensable to every one interested in the impor
 tant subject of which it treats.
         XLVIII. Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
 ON A NEW POLAR ACTION OF MAGNETISM ON HEAT IN A PLATE
     TRAVERSED BY A GALVANIC CURRENT. BY A. VON ETTINGS-
     HAUSEN.
  80MB time ago I brought before the Imperial Academy a phe
      nomenon observed by myself and Nernst (Phil. Mag. Sept. 1887,

  370           Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
  p. 291) ; which is that electromotive forces are produced in a plate
  of bismuth, antimony, cobalt, nickel, or iron, traversed by a current
  of heat and brought into a powerful magnetic field in such a
  manner that the lines of force cut the plate at right angles. We
  called the phenomenon " thermomagnetic effect," and in bismuth we
  observed both a transverse current, one, that is to say, at right angles
  to the current, of heat, and a longitudinal one, that is, acting in the
  direction of the current ; the former, which is by far the stronger,
  changes its direction when the direction of the current to which the
  magnetic field is due is reversed.
     It was obvious to attempt a reversal of the phenomenon, that is,
 to demonstrate an inequality of temperature in a plate traversed
 by a voltaic current, which was produced by the action of magnetic
 forces. I used a bismuth plafe 3-l centim. in length, 2-4 ceutim.
 in breadth, and about 0-04 centim. in thickness; stout copper
 wires were soldered to the whole extent of the short sides of the
 copper plate ; they served to transmit the current J through the
 plate ; in the middle of one long side the junction of an argentan-
 coppcr thermoelement was soldered to the plate, while the other
 junction dipped in a vessel of water kept at the temperature of
 the room. The thermoelement was connected with a reflecting
 galvanometer. The current of two Bunsen's elements was passed
 through the plate, the intensity of which could be varied by a rheo
 stat with a stout wire, and could be measured by a reflecting
 tangent- galvanometer. Owing to beating of the plate, a deflection
of the needle is observed, which soon becomes stationary ; the loss
of heat by the plate is diminished by enclosing it in wadding.
    The plate was placed between the elongated pole-pieces of an
electromagnet. If the latter is excited, a change in the setting of
 the needle is observed, and after some time (|-1 minute) it acquires
a pretty constant position ; on opening the magnetizing current,
the needle reverts to its former position. The difference of the
adjustments is obtained with sufficient accuracy to read off each
time half a minute after the opening or closing of the magnetizing
current. Experiment showed that the positions of the needle were
on opposite sides of the stationary positions if the direction of the
currents was alternated ; and further that the deflections changed
with the direction of the current J which traversed the plate.
    The direction of the deflections showed that the temperature of
the junction fastened to the plate was always raised, when we
reach the junction from the place where the current J enters the
plate by a motion in the same direction as the currents replacing
the magnetic field. If the phenomenon could be regarded as a
displacement of the stream-lines of the plate, by which the stream
was condensed in one part and dilated in another, the displacement
would take place in agreement with the ponderomotive action
according to Ampere's rule. The deflections of the needle on each
6ide are rather considerable (as much as 60 divisions), although
when the direction of the current J is unchanged, the absolute

               Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.             371
value is not equally great for the two directions of the current
which excited the electromagnet.
   It will be seen from this statement that the heating or cooling
does not occur in such a way that we can regard the experiment as
a reversal of the transverse thermoinagnetie phenomenon; from
analogy with the Peltier effect the change of temperature must
be exactly opposite that which observation gives. The thermo
magnetic action of the bismuth plate was seen to be very powerful,
and was quite normal ; it manifested itself in such a way, that from
the place where the thermal current entered the plate to the place
where the thermomagnetic current enters, the motion is opposite
to the direction of the field-magnets.
    In order to keep the results free from objection 1 placed the two
solderings of the thermoelement at two opposite places in the
middle of the long sides of the bismuth plate, but both plates
were carefully insulated from the plate by interposing thin sheets
of mica.
    After closing the current J only a slight alteration of the position
of the needle could be noticed, as both solderings had almost the
 same temperature. The excitation of the magnetic field produced
 the action in the way given above, and with such regularity that
 measurements could be made. In the homogeneous field, M = 6400
 (C. G. S.) ; the deflections of the galvanometer needle i, correspond
 ing to the differences oE temperature of the solderings, where the
 strength of the current in the plate was^I = 2-49 amperes, was
 (A) i=9-0+ 1             01          (B)   i= 10-5-1
           9-2- J mean                         10-0+ J mean ~~         •
    (A) and (B) mean the two directions of the current in the plate;
 in (A) J flows from left to right through it. The two numbers
 under each other are the deflections of the needle in parts of the
 scale with opposite directions of the current which excites the
 electromagnet, measured each time from the position of rest of the
 needle when the magnetic field is not excited. In the first case
 (the upper numbers), for an observer looking at the plate, the field
 currents are in the direction of the hands of a watch (south pole
 behind the plate) ; the signs + signify that the deflections of the
 galvanometer needle are towards the great or small numbers of the
 scale. A deflection towards the large numbers represents an
 increase of temperature of the soldering of the thermoelement at
 the upper edge of the plate over the temperature of the other. If
 no current flowed through the bottom bismuth plate (J=0), then,
 when the direction of the field current was reversed, there was no
 action on the thermoelement. For J =5-72 the mean of the
 deflections at A was 17-0, at B 19-3 divisions, hence the difference
 of temperature at the top and bottom edges (for the same M) is
  proportional to the intensity, J, of the current in the plate.
     The observations were still more successful with a double plate of

372          Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
bismuth. Two equal plates, each 0-043 centim. thick, were placed
with their surfaces parallel and near each other, so that the current
J was divided between them. The distance of the plates was
about 1 millim., and the solderings of the thermoelement were inter
posed in the space at the upper and lower edges of the plate, and
carefully insulated by thin kminse of mica.
   With a strength of the magnetic field M=6400, and for J equal
to l-76 amperes, for the undivided current the mean of the deflec
tions of the needle was i=17'3 divisions ; for J=3-28 amperes i=
32-8, so that the intensity is nearly proportional to the strength of
the current passing through the double plate
         For M = 4290,     J = 3-05 amp.,   i = 20-3 divisions,
                   6250,       3-05             29-9
and the action is thus also proportional to the intensity of the
magnetic field.
   If, instead of the galvanic current, a thermal current was passed
through the plate, the thermoelements interposed between the
plates did not show the smallest difference of temperature when the
magnetic field was excited in either direction.
   In order to ascertain whether the new phenomenon is seen in
different bismuth plates in different intensity, and especially if in
bismuth, which produces Hall's phenomenon in greatest strength, the
galvanomagnetic difference of temperature is greater, I investigated
a second double plate II. ; each single plate was 7 centim. in length,
1-9 centim. in breadth, and about 0-08 centim. in thickness : the
double plate I. previously mentioned was made of the same breadth
as II.
   I made successively experiments with each double plate and two
different intensities of fixed M= 4400 and 6310: for the same
total intensity of the current J which traverses the plate the
differences of temperature produced at the edges of the plates in I.
and II. were about in the ratio 1"92 : 1.
   The rotatory powers of the bismuth plates were very different for
the same M ; the bismuth of the double plate which showed the
greater galvanometric difference of temperature had the smaller
rotatory power. On the other hand, the ratio of the sections of I.
and II. is nearly 1 : 1-9, and hence for the same strength of
current, the density of the current has a preponderating influence
on the strength of the effects in bismuth.
   I observe in conclusion that the difference of temperature which
 was produced by the magnetic field M = 6310 at the edges of the
double plate I. for the total strength of current J =4-55 amperes
amounted to about 13,3 C. : the electromotive force of my thermo
element for a difference of 1° C. in the solderings was very
nearly 11 microvolts.—Berichte der Kaiserlichen Akad&niein Wien,
January 13, 1887.

               Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.           373
ON THE ACTION OF MAGNETISM ON ELECTRICAL DISCHARGES IN
               DILUTE GASES. BY PROF. BOLTZMANN.
   A flat Geissler's tube in which there was a pressure of 2-5 millim.
was placed in a homogeneous magnetic field ; its section at right
angles to the lines of force was nearly a rhomb with diagonals of
6 and 4 centim. ; its thickness was about 2 centim. The electrodes
were fixed at the corners of the rhomb; in tube I. platinum
wires were fused in, so that the wires were in the magnetic field ;
in the other, II., there were fused glass tubes, in which the wires
were sealed some distance outside the magnetic field. The in
duction current of a small Ruhmkorff's coil, with a striking dis
tance of 1 centim., passed through the acute angles of the rhomb
(primary electrodes), while the other two electrodes (the transverse
electrodes) were connected with a fine-wire galvanometer. The
luminous phenomenon in a Geissler's tube, as is well known, is de
flected by magnetism in the same way as a wire traversed by a pri
mary current would be, in accordance with Ampere's rule ; but with
a symmetrical position of the tube, and symmetrical position of the
transverse electrodes towards the line of junction of the primary
current, no conclusion could be drawn, whether, and in what
direction a current could be produced by magnetism in the circuit
which joined the transverse electrodes.
   Experiment showed now that a current was always produced
there, and the place at which the positive current emerged from
the tube was always at that transverse electrode from which the
band of light was repelled. If therefore this phenomenon is to be
compared with that of Hall (Phil. Mag. (5) vol. ix. p. 225), air
would behave like bismuth or gold.
   If the tube was filled with H or CO., of almost the same pressure,
these gases showed neither qualitatively nor quantitatively a demon
strable difference in comparison with air. In tube I. the current
between the transverse electrodes was in the mean about the six
tieth, and in the maximum about the thirtieth of the primary
current with a field of about 1800 (C.G.S.) ; yet this number can
only give an approximation to the order of magnitude, since the cir
cuit to the galvanometer was quite inadequately insulated for cur
rents of such potential ; and since from the electromotive force,
which according to Edlund appears at the electrodes, the intensity
of the current could not be taken as proportional to the electromo
tive force of the primary or the transverse current. In tube II. the
transverse current was much smaller, probably because in addition
to the rhomb it had also to traverse the narrow glass tubes.
   In these experiments the inductorium, and the battery which
worked it (2—3 chromic acid elements), were insulated on sealing-
wax rods, so that without the action of magnetism electricity could
neither enter nor emerge in large quantities through the transverse
electrodes. This arrangement is quite in correspondence with that

 374          Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
 which Hall chose for observing the phenomenon which he discovered.
 I also made experiments in which one of the electrodes at the
 acute angle of the rhomb was not used ; the primary current entered
 the tube through the other, and divided into two parts, one of which
 passed through one, and another through the other, transverse elec
 trode, and which traversed a differential galvanometer in opposite
 directions. Here were seen all the phenomena which Bighi
 observed in metals with the same arrangement. Magnetism pro
 duced also another kind of transverse current. The current which
 traversed the transverse electrodes before the action of magnetism,
 was increased at that electrode towards which the band of light was
 driven, and weakened at the other; a transverse current was thus
 produced in the galvanometer, which had the same direction at that
 transverse electrode towards which the strip of light was urged,
 and thus had the same direction as the primary current. It hence
changed direction on reversing the field, but not on changing the
primary current.
   This latter transverse current was not weaker in tube II. than in
tube I., or at all events not materially so. It was seen even with
the ordinary (Hall's) arrangement with four electrodes, as soon aa
one of the primary electrodes was put to earth or was imperfectly
insulated, for then only one portion of the chief current passed
through the second (imperfectly insulated) primary electrode ;
another part flowed through the two transverse electrodes and the
galvanometer-circuit, which was also imperfectly insulated from the
earth. By the latter portions of the current all the phenomena
which occur in Eighi's arrangement would be produced.
   As the well known fact that the action of a magnet hinders the
passage of the current through Geissler's tubes, seemed analogous
to the increase of resistance of bismuth in the magnetic field, I
made an experiment in this direction. The primary current passed
simultaneously through tube II. and another Geissler's tube ;
without the action of magnetism it divided almost uniformly be
tween the two ; but by the action of the magnetic field the division
of the current was altered, as it would be on the law of branch
currents, if the resistance in tube II. had been increased tenfold.
—Wiedemann's Annalen, vol. xxxi. p. 789.
   SOME EXPERIMENTS ON THE TRANSMISSION OF ELECTRICAL
              CURRENTS IN AIR. BY J. BORGMANN.
   This paper is to be considered as a preliminary communication,
in which the author describes some experiments which he has un
dertaken in order to ascertain the manner in which the electrical
current is transmitted through air.
   If one conductor of an electrical machine is put to earth, and the
other is connected with an insulated point or flame, and if one end

              Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.             375
of a galvanometer-wire is put to earth while the other is connected
with the second flame, an electrical current is produced as soon as
the machine is worked. Lighting the flame did not affect the
needle of the galvanometer ; electrostatic induction was completely
avoided, as the needle was completely surrounded by a copper
damper, and the latter was put to earth.
   It was found that when the machine was rotated with a constant
Velocity the galvanometer showed a constant current, the direction
of which changed with the direction of the poles of the machine ;
it was observed that these opposite currents were never equal to
each other. Wiedemann's galvanometer (Edelmann's construction)
was used (one division corresponds to 5*99 . 10-8 ampere) ; or a
specially constructed pure metallic galvanometer of W. Lerman-
tow, with a bell-magnet (one division corresponding to 2-21 . 10-8
 ampere without astatic magnet, and 2-05 . 10-» ampere with astatic
 magnet).
    When the flames were at a distance of R metres, the following
 deflections A1 and Aa were observed, corresponding to the case in
which one or the other conductor of the machine was connected
with the flame :—
      R             1-09    1-68     2-54      4-19
                      9o                J9       1lZ9 \f Lermantow's
      A,              i6      11                         galvanometer.
      A,              30       7        2
 and with R = 0-305 A, was found equal to about 300 divisions.
    The same phenomenon is also observed by taking two pairs of
insulated flames, so that between the machine and the galvanometer
 there are air-spaces ; if a galvanometer is brought between the
 middle flames a constant current is also observed here.
    The deflections of the two galvanometers are seen to be always
 proportional, which may serve as a proof that the circuit in ques
 tion is a closed one. A metal or a non-metallic screen insulated
 from the earth and placed between the flames gives directly a de
 crease of the strength of 1*45 times in the case of glass, and l-25
 for metal ; with an uninsulated screen the deflections of the needle
 disappear altogether.
    Instead of the machine a voltaic battery may be used ; the phe
 nomenon is of course much feebler.
    The author connects further one pole of an inductorium to earth
 and the other with the flame, while two telephones connected in
 series are used instead of the galvanometer. With an air-space
 between the flames of 6 metres (or as much as 11 metres when the
 telephone is connected with a large metal shield), the telephones
 sound quite distinctly ; hence intermittent currents are transmitted
 directly through the air.
   If, now, the air does actually conduct the electrical current, the

376             Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
 latter should act directly on the needles of the galvanometer. In
 order to show this the author placed two insulated flames somewhat
 higher than the magnetic meridian, and connected these flames by
 wires at right angles to the meridian with the earth and the electrical
 machine respectively. The coils of the galvanometer should be
 either closed or altogether removed, otherwise the current divides
 in the coils ; the metallic galvanometer with a bell-magnet gave a
 deflection of 5-7 divisions as soon as the machine was set to work.
 The distance of the flames was 920 millim. The direction of the
 current is changed when the current flows below the galvano
 meter, as required by Ampere's laws.—Journal of the Russian
 Physical and Chemical Society (7) XviiL 18S6. From an abstract
 in Beiblatter tier Physik, vol. xi. p. 369.
  METHOD OF OBSERVING THE ACTION OF MAGNETS ON LIQUIDS.
                          BY S. T. MOREHEAD.
    Some weeks ago one of my students, Mr. J. C. Child, and my
 self were working with a diamagnetic instrument, simply repeating
 well-known experiments. Pliicker's method of observing the dia-
magnetism of liquids having failed in our hands to give satisfactory
results, we hit upon a method which was new to us and which was
very satisfactory. Into a glass tube of about four or five milli
metres internal diameter a small quantity of liquid was introduced
forming a short cylinder. This tube was placed horizontally at
right angles to the line joining the poles of the magnet with the
liquid nearly between the poles. When the current was turned
on, the liquid was very evidently repelled. Water was repelled
through a distance of about half a centimetre ; wood-spirit through
a greater distance. By moving the tube in the direction of its
length the wood-spirit could be pushed any distance through the
tube. The amount of motion is of course a function of the
resistances due to adhesion and friction as well as of the repul
sive force. The attraction of liquids is easily shown by the same
method.
   A single modification of the above plan of proceeding is to in
cline the tube slightly so as to make the liquid flow toward the
poles. If the acquired velocity be not too great the magnet acts
as a break to stop the motion. It is well to bend the tube up a
little at each end to prevent the liquids from flowing out. This
method is well adapted for projection so as to be seen by large
audiences.—Silliman's American Journal, September 1887.

                                 TH E
           LONDON, EDINBURGH, and DUBLIN
     PHILOSOPHICAL                           MAGAZINE
                                  AND
          JOURNAL                 OF        SCIENCE.
                        [FIFTH SERIES.]
                     NO V EMBER 1887.
XLIX. On the Action of the Solvent in Electrolytic Conduction.
                   By T. C. Fitzpatkick, B.A.*
IN a paper read at the Birmingham Meeting of the British
      Association last year I gave some results of the measure
ments of the conductivity of saline solutions ; the solutions
containing equivalent quantities of the same salt, the solvents
being different. Since then I have been making further
experiments on the nature of the action of the solvent in the
conductivity of electrolytes, the results of which I wish to
present in this paper.
    As solvents, water, ethyl-alcohol, and methyl-alcohol have
been employed. The water used in these measurements was
obtained by the distillation of the ordinary town supply, which
contains hardly a trace of ammonia or any organic matter.
The water was boiled for a long time, before distillation in a
glass still ; and the product was found to have a fairly con
stant conductivity of "0000062, though the conductivity of the
water employed in each series of measurements was deter
mined separately in each case.
    The ethyl-alcohol was almost absolute, having a specific
gravity of "795 ; it was carefully distilled, and its conduc
tivity measured before each series of experiments. The methyl-
alcohol was treated in a similar way.
    All these solvents have a certain amount of action on glass ;
and this action varies with the character of the glass. Quite
   * Communicated by the Electrolysis Committee of the British Asso
ciation, having been read at the joint sitting of Sections A and B at th»
recent British Association Meeting in Manchester.
   Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 24. No. 150. Nov. 1887.               2 0

378           Mr. T. C. Fitzpatrick on the Action of
recently, of two bottles full of alcohol, which had been dis
tilled at the same time and then left to stand for a week, the
conductivity of the one at the end of this time was ten times
as great as that of the other. Tn all my measurements the
same glass cell has been employed ; and it is now found that
the resistance of the water or alcohol when left in the cell does
 not fall nearly so quickly as it did in the case of the first
 measurements, and it can be distinctly seen that the glass has
 been acted on.
    The conductivities of these three solvents differ considerably.
    The average resistance-value for 250 cubic centim. of
    (1) Water introduced into the cell,
                    R= 15,000 to 16,000 legal ohms.
    (2) Ethyl-alcohol,
                    R= 50,000 to 60,000 I. ohms.
    (3) Methyl-alcohol,
                         R=4000 to 45001. ohms.
   It will be seen that the ethyl-alcohol is much the worst
conductor, whilst the water is intermediate between the two
alcohols.
    In the last* circular of the Electrolysis Committee Prof.
Ramsay makes mention of the work of Adolf Bartoli, that
benzene is a non-conductor, and methyl-alcohol conducts well,
and adds as a note, "is it pure?"
   I was surprised at finding the resistance-value for this
alcohol so low, and considered that it could not be pure ; but
after carefully distilling it from lime I obtained the same, or
almost the same, value ; and after again repeating the process
the value was not found materially different.
    Tt did not seem at first worth while working with a solvent
of such a low resistance, but I have lately employed it ; and
the results are, I think, interesting, the only objection being
the rapidity of its evaporation.
                          Salts employed.
    It is a point worth noticing, that all the salts that are soluble
in ethyl-alcohol are deliquescent salts with the single exception
of mercuric chloride. This latter salt I experimented with,
 as it is also the only salt more soluble in alcohol than in
 water ; and I thought it might be possible, by comparing
the conductivities of solutions of this salt in equivalent quan
tities in water and alcohol, to see if the difference of con
 ductivities of equivalent solutions depended at all on the
coefficient of solubility of the salt in the particular solvent.
• It was then found, as had been previously observed by
                   * Sixth circular, May 1887, p. 8.

                  the Solvent in Electrolytic Conduction.              379
M. Bouty, that the behaviour of this salt is peculiar ; in fact
that its solutions conduct very little better than the solvent
alone, whether the solvent be water or alcohol ; and so far
as this salt is concerned, solubility does not appear to affect
the question of conductivity.
    The other salts experimented with were calcium chloride
and nitrate, lithium chloride and nitrate, magnesium chloride
and nitrate, ferric chloride and mercuric chloride.
    The calcium nitrate and lithium and magnesium salts
were obtained from Dr. Schuchart. of Gorlitz, and the ferric
chloride was prepared anhydrous at the Cambridge Chemical
Laboratory.
    It is of course impossible to keep these salts perfectly anhy
 drous ; but in some cases two sets of measurements were made
 with the same salt, and identical values obtained ; which
 would prove that the error due to the salts not being perfectly
 anhydrous is very small indeed.
    I have employed the methyl-alcohol as a solvent only for
 the lithium and calcium salts. In all cases the solutions have
 been obtained by dilution of the first solution ; which was
 prepared by dissolving a known weight of the salt in 500
 cubic centim. of the solvent ; 250 cubic centim. of this solu
 tion being introduced into the cell for resistance-measurements.
    These measurements have been made by the method de
 scribed in my former paper*, which has been found to work
 excellently ; and the cell I have used was the same as was
 employed for the previous determinations. The values for
 calcium chloride are given again for the sake of comparison
 with those of the calcium nitrate.
                       Salt, Calcium Chloride, CaClj.
                •fa Equivalent of this salt (5'532 grm.).
                                Solvent, Water.
        Amount of                         Amount of
        salt in 2;')0 Condue- Temp.       salt in 250 Conduc     Temp.
       cub. cent, of tivitjt.            cub. cent, of tivity.
          solvent.                          solvent.
                       015506     18 8        iSo E-   ¦0012(.)0  189
                       •008728    18-8                 •000681    18 9
            >                                 040
                       •004(120   186 1       1S80 E-  •OOWtfO    19 3
             1 R       •002438    18-4
            160
    * 13.A. Report, 1880, p. 828.
    t The conductivity of water employed is subtracted from values given
  in former paper.
                                       2C2

380              Mr. T. C. Fitzpatrick on the Action of
                                 Salt, CaCl,.
                              Solvent, Alcohol.
    Amount of                             Amount of
      Ball in 250 Conduc       Temp.      salt in 250 Conduc    Temp.
     cub. cent of tivity.                cub. cent, of tivity.
        solvent.                            solvent.
                                  o                    •0001151
           ,>        0007246 18-7             330 Jt              18-6
           f.E-      •O0O4793 187                       0000702 18-6
                    ¦0003028 18-8            -L-E.     •0000403 186
           5*                                 1280
                     ¦0001912   186          skE-       0000232   18-5
                                  Salt, CaCl2.
                  Solvent, Methyl-alcohol, CH„ . OH.
     Amount of                            Amount of
     salt in 250 Conduc        Temp.      ¦alt in 250 Conduc    Temp.
    cub. cent, of tivity.                cub. cent, of tivity.
       solvent.                            solvent.
                    ¦0057318       o                   •0006400 21-0
                                 21
                    ¦0033755     21          6To E-    0003514   211
          fB'       ¦0016(500    21          -!_E.     0001930 21-4
                                             1209
         loo E-     0011370      21
                   Salt, Calcium Nitrate, Ca(N03)j.
  •fo Equivalent (8"184 grm.) dissolved in 500 cub. cent.
                               Solvent, Water.
    Quantity of                         Quantity of
     salt in 250 Conduc        Temp.     salt in 250 Conduc     Temp.
   cub. cent, of tivity.                cub. cent, of tivity.
       solvent.                        1 solvent.
                    •014098                                        o
          io E-                 18-2         iio E-    001200    184
                    •007734     18-0         «ToE-     000620    18-5
                    ¦004234     184          J-E.      000323    18-2
                                             1280
                    002247      183

               the Solvent in Electrolgtic Conduction.              381
                           Salt, Cu(NO,),.
                       Solvent, Ethyl-alcohol.
 Quantity of                          Quantity of
  salt in 250   Conduc      Temp.     salt in 250   Conduc    Temp.
 cub. cent, of   tivity.             oub. cent, of    tivity.
    solvent.                            solvent.
               •00055267     207          So B"    000094677   208
       >
               •00036268     207                   000058633   208
       80 K    •00023447     20-7         isao E-  000035396   208
      Too K    •00015011     208          U6i E-   000021010   20-8
                           Salt, Cu(N03)s.
                       Solvent, Methyl-alcohol.
  Quantity of                        Quantity of
   salt in 250 Conduc       Temp.     salt in 250   Conduc    Temp.
 cub. cent, of tivity.               cub. cent, of    tivity.
     solvent.                           solvent.
       M E-     0032610      200          So E"     •0004626   20-4
                0020660      201          840 E-    ¦0002810   205
                0012890      20-2         1280      0001740    206
       I»oE-    0007836      203   1
                                   1
                  Salt, Lithium Chloride, LiCl.
£ Equivalent (5*297 grm.) was dissolved in 500 cub. cent.
                           Solvent, Water.
  Quantity of                         Quantity of
  salt in 250   Conduc      Temp.      salt in 250   Oonduc-  Temp.
 cub. cent, of   tivity.              oub. cent of    tiTity.
     solvent.                           solvent.
                              o                      ¦001440    O
        16 E-   0188090      191           asB E-              191
                0101030      190                     ¦000748   194
                0053376      19-2         Toj; E-    ¦000377   19-4
        £*
       ¦M El    •0027870     19 2         ioii E-    000192    194

382              Mr. T. C. Fitzpatrick on the Action of
                                    Salt, LiCl.
              \ Equivalent was dissolved in 500 cub. cent.
                            Solvent, Ethyl-alcohol.
   Quantity of                             Quantity of
    salt in 250     Conduc       Temp.      Bait in 250    Conduc    Temp.
   cub. cent, ol      tivity.              cub. cent, of     tivity.
      solvent.                                solvent.
        iE-         •003580       19-3          *s'a E      000338     19-4
                     00247(5      19-3               E-    ¦000192    195
       SE-          001585        19-4         1021 E-      000105    19-5
       fiE-         000973        19-2         ibTi E-     •000057    19-5
                   •000580        19-3
       IS*
                           Salt, Lithium Chloride.
    1 Equivalent of LiCl was dissolved in 500 cub. cent.
                           SolverU, Methyl-alcohol.
  Quantity of                              Quantity of
   salt in 250     Conduc       Temp.      salt in 250     Conduc    Temp.
  cub. cent, of      tivity.              cub. cent, of     tivity.
     solvent.                                solvent.
         rflE-     •0085396      209                      •0009396    21-0
        is E'       0051570      209            M-i E-    ¦0005216    211
                   ¦0029840      210                      0002944     211
       IiiE-        001(5790     210
                     Salt, Lith ium Nitrate, LiNOs-
 £ Equivalent (34*45 grm.) was dissolved in 500 cub. cent.
                                Solvent, Water.
  Quantity of                              Quantity of
   Bait in 250 Conduc                      salt in 250
                                Temp. 1 cub.              Conduc     Temp.
  cub. cent, of tivity.                          cent, of   tivity.
     solvent.                                solvent.
                   •056346                                •002598       o
        >                         180          128 E-                 18-5
       '-8 E.      ¦032240       181          iia E-      •001338     18-2
                   017780        18-4          512 R      •000089     18-3
       s E-        •009425       182                      •000351     18-6
       k E-        0049(50       183          iuli E-      000178     18-7

               fA« Solvent in Electrolytic Conduction.                  383
                                Salt, Li(N03).
\ Equivalent (17*228 grm.) was dissolved in 500 cub. cent.
                           Solvent, Ethyl-alcohol.
  Quantity of                            Quantity of
  salt in 250 Conduc          Temp.       salt in 250   Conduc    Temp
 cub. cent, of tivity.                   cub. cent, of    tivity.
    solvent                                 solvent.
                                 o                      •000369     o
       .»         001417        190          SiS E-                19-4
                  •002906       18-9                    •000208    194
                  •001825       190          Fiii E-    •000115    19-5
      64 E-       001096        192          SM8K        000061    19-6
                  ¦000644       19-2
     is*
                          Salt, Lithium Nitrate.
          J Equivalent was dissolved in 500 cub. cent.
                         Solvent, Methyl-alcohol.
        Quantity of salt in
         250 cub. cent of        Conductivity.             Temp.
              solvent
                                                              o
                                     009695                  20-1
                                     ¦005818                 20-3
               i»
                                     •003314                 201
               i*
               TSE-                  001816                  192
                    Salt, Ferric Chloride, FejGl,,.
j'g Equivalent (5*4 grm.) was dissolved in 500 cub. cent.
                             Solvent, Water.
 Quantity of                             Quantity of
  salt in 250    Conduo-                  salt in 250 Conduc
                               Temp. ! cub.                       Temp.
 cub. cent, of     tiTity.                     cent, of tivity.
    solvent                                 solvent '
                 •015474         o                      •001775
                                175           iisE-                17°6
                 •009480        17-6          8*0 El     000976    17-5
      su E-       005510        175          ij«5E-     •000527    17-5
     IS5E-        003160        17 5

384             Mr. T. C. Fitzpatrick on the Action of
                      Salt, Ferric Chloride, Fe3C)6.
           ^ Equivalent was dissolved in 500 cub. cent.
                           Solvent, Ethyl-alcohol.
  Quantity of                            | Quantity of
   salt in 250 Conduc             Temp.     salt in 250   Conduc     Temp.
  cub. cent, of tivity.                    cub. cent, of   tivity.
     solvent.                                 solvent.
                   •0008004         0                    ¦0000752      o
       20 E-                       17-5         iio E                 175
                   ¦0004340        17 5         6ib E-   •0000451     17-5
                   •0002370        175          isio E-  ¦0000288     175
       160 E>       0001300        175
                   Salt, Mercuric Chloride, HgCl,.
J0 Equivalent (13-527 grin.) was dissolved in 500 cub. cent.
                                 Solvent, Water.
   Quantity of                             Quantity of
   salt in 250     Conduc         Temp.     salt in 250 Conduc       Temp.
  cub. cent, of      tivity.               cub. cent, of tivity.
     solvent. .                               solvent.
                                      o                  ¦00001553        o
        ib E-     00006548          15          ib*                    15
        ioE-      ¦00004516         16           Bio E"  ¦00001049     15
        iSE-      •00003185         15          nsbE-     00000740     15
                  •00002256         15
                          Salt, Mercuric Chloride.
             ^ Equivalent was dissolved in 500 cub. cent.
                            Solvent, Ethyl-alcohol.
                               i                                   i
   Quantity of                              Quantity of
    salt in 250 Conduc- 1 Temp.              salt in 250 Conduc- ' Temp.
   cub. cent, of tivily.                    cub. cent, of tivity.
      solvent.                                 solvent.            1
                 ¦000000803           o                                   0
                                     15          3I0 E- •000000220      15
                 •000000609          15          6io K- ¦000000165      15
                 •0001)00446                                       i
         80 E-                       15          iSii E-
        IBi E-   •000000321          15                                 •

                 the Solvent in Electrolytic Conduction.                  385
                    Salt, Maguesiuin Chloride, MgCls.
T'(5 Equivalent (4-737 grm.) was dissolved in 500 cub. cent.
                                 Solvent, Water.
   Quantity of                           i Quantity of
    salt in 250      Conduc       Temp. cub.salt in 250 Conduc      Temp.
   eub. cent, of      tivity.                    cent, of tivity.
      solvent.                               solvent.
                     ¦008106        0                     •000612
                                   18-4        mo E-                 184
                     •0O4310       184          61? K"    •000311    18-2
                     •002230       18-4                   •000158    18-2
                                                1280
        160 E-       •001180       184         2560 E-    ¦000080    184
                          Salt, Magnesium Chloride,
-j'o Equivalent (4'737 grm.) was dissolved in 500 cub. cent.
                              Solvent, Ethyl-alcohol.
    Quantity of                            Quantity of
     salt in 250 Conduc                     salt in 250   Conduc
    cub. cent, of tivity. ! Temp.          cub. oent. of    tivity. Temp.
      solvent.                                solvent.
                     ¦000587       176                    •000780    178
                     •000356       17 4         6T.E.     •000456     178
                     •000217       178         1280 E-    •000267    18-0
         Tii E-      ¦000130       17-8
                  i
                 Salt, Magnesium Nitrate, Mg(N03)2.
 T\j Equivalent (7*389 grm.) was dissolved in 500 cub. cent.
                                   Solvent, Water.
    Quantity of                            Quantity of
     salt in 250     Conduc       Temp.     salt in 250 Conduc      Temp.
   cub. cent, of      tivity.              cub. cent, of tivity.
      solvent.                                solvent.
         iio E-       •01297       18'8         si E-      •001010   188
                      •00695       18-8         So E-      •000526   188
                      •00371                   —
                                   18-8        1280 V      000270    18-8
                                                  I        ¦000137
        75> E-        O0197        18-9        2560 E-               18'8

 386          Mr. T. C. Fitzpatrick on the Action of
     Water Solutions.—The conductivity-values for equivalent
 solutions of the different salts are all of the same order, with
 the exception of the mercuric-chloride solutions, the peculiar
 behaviour of which has already been alluded to.
    The chlorides are better conductors than the corresponding
 nitrates, though not to any great extent. The behaviour of
 magnesium chloride is anomalous, the conductivity-values for
its solutions being almost exactly one half those of the cor
 responding calcium-chloride solutions. The same is not the
case for the nitrate, though its conductivity is less than that
of the calcium nitrate ; a fresh solution of the chloride gave
the same values as the former ; the solution was carefully
tested for calcium or ammonium chloride, but not a trace was
found.
    It would appear, therefore, that a solution of magnesium
chloride containing 1 equivalent has the same conductivity
as one of calcium chloride containing half an equivalent.
    For the ferric-chloride solutions the conductivity is too
high for the more dilute solution, the conductivity not being
proportional to the quantity of salt in solution ; this is pro
bably due to the decomposition of the ferric into ferrous
chloride.
    Alcohol Solutions.—For none of the alcoholic solutions is
the conductivity proportional to the amount of salt in solution;
the conductivity not diminishing directly wTith the increase of
the dilution.
    Further, the conductivities vary considerably for the
different salts.
   The lithium salts have values comparable with one another,
and the values for the calcium and magnesium salts are of
the same order ; but the values for the lithium salts are
between 10 and 20 times as great as the conductivities for
the corresponding solutions of the other salts.
   The same is true of the methyl-alcohol solutions, though
the lithium salts conduct only about twice as well as the
calcium salts in methyl-alcohol solutions.
   Next, comparing the conductivities of equivalent solutions
for the same salt and the different solvents, it is clearly seen
how largely the values for the conductivities of saline solu
tions depend on the character of the solvent.
    Prof. Arrhenius considers that in dilute aqueous saline
solutions, the action of the water is to cause the dissociat ion of
the salt ; but how this action is exerted he does not suggest.
   Other solvents do not exert such dissociating action, he
continues, and hence do not conduct. This is not quite exact,
as, though the alcoholic solutions do not conduct as well as

               the Solvent in Electrolytic Conduction.         387
 the aqueous solutions, they have a very considerable conduc
 tivity.
    In all cases the water solutions conduct best, though the
 conductivity of the water itself is much smaller than that of
 the methyl-alcohol.
    It should be mentioned that in the table of results the con
 ductivity of the solvent has in all cases been subtracted, and
 the tabulated results are the difference between the observed
 values of the conductivity of the solvent and of the saline
 solution ; that this is legitimate is clearly shown by the results
 obtained by Prof. Kohlrausch for the conductivities of solu
 tions of the same strength in water of varying conductivity.
 It has been before mentioned that the character of the salt, as
 well as of the solvent, influences the conductivity of the solu
 tion ; and I conclude that there is an interaction between the
 two, on the result of which interaction the conductivity chiefly
 depends ; this would be the formation of molecular groups in
 the solution.
    That such molecular groups do exist in solution in certain
 cases experiment clearly proves.
    Prof. Kohlrausch, in determining the conductivity of solu
 tions of sulphur trioxide in water, found that, for certain
 strengths of solutions, the conductivity was a minimum ;
 namely, those that corresponded to the proportions S03 . H40,
 andS03.2HaO; on further dilution the conductivity again
 increased. In these particular cases, the solution was com
 posed of these molecular groups.
    Again, the work of Arrhenius on isohydric solutions shows
 that, if solutions of two compounds of different strength be
 mixed, the conductivity of the resulting solution is the mean
 of those of the two. A molecule of the first body thus reacts
 with a different number of molecules of the solvent from that
 with which a molecule of the second reacts, and the two mole
cular groups can exist in solution without affecting one another.
    Certain salts form compounds called cryohydrates, which
separate out from solution at very low temperatures ; that
such compounds exist in the solution previously to separating
out in the solid form must be admitted. Quite recently, in
experimenting with solutions of sodium chloride, with a view
to the determination of temperature-coefficients at low tempe
ratures, I found that of two solutions, the first of which was
saturated, whilst the other had a specific gravity of 1*052,
when cooled down in a freezing-mixture to —19° C, the
saturated solution behaved regularly, the conductivity falling
with the fall of temperature. For the more dilute solution
this was not the case ; at —7° the solution began to solidify,

388            Mr. T. C. Fitzpatriek on the Action of
and at —19° the tube was filled with a soft solid, which had
a considerable conductivity. The conductivity of these solu
tions were measured also at 0°, and the conductivity for the
more dilute solution was much smaller than the temperature-
coefficient at higher temperature would lead one to expect
I conclude that the definite compound, the cryohydrate,
existed at this temperature in the solution, though it did not
separate out till —7°.
   To further experiment on the existence of these molecular
groups, I have determined the conductivity of two solvents ;
of the solvents mixed ; of solutions of equivalent quantities of
the same salt in the two solvents ; and in the mixed solvents.
The results are given below.
   250 cubic centim. of the solution were in each case intro
duced into the cell.
      Conductivitv of alcohol                       -0000082.
             „     *     water                      -000091.
      Conductivity of 250 cubic centim. °f\.0OOO29
                 mixed solvents                   J
           Calculated value                         -0000248.
      Conductivity of CaCl2 alcoholic solution '00506.
            „          „       water          „     -0775.
      Conductivity of CaCls solution in mixed \.Q22g
                 alcohol and water . . . . j
           Calculated value                         -0206.
   There is a considerable contraction of volume on mixing
the alcohol and water ; for the mixed solutions of calcium
chloride the volume was made up to 500 cubic centim. by the
addition of a mixture of the solvents.
   The conductivity-values obtained differ by about 10 per
cent, from the calculated values, both for the mixed solvents
and for the mixed salt solutions. I conclude, therefore, that
the alcohol reacts with the salt associated with the water, and
vice versa ; it might be possible to obtain two solutions of
different strength, such that the mixture had a conductivity
the mean of the two, similar to Arrhenius' isohydric solutions.
   All these experimental facts point in the same direction, to
the action of the solvent being a chemical one ; the salt being
decomposed, and molecular groups formed in the solution.
   Quite recently a paper has been published in the Annales
de Cliimze by Foussereau*, on the decomposition of metallic
chlorides in solution ; in which to measure the change in the
character of the solution, due to such decomposition, he deter-
                  * Annates de Chimie, July 1887.

               the Solvent in Electrolytic Conduction.               389
  mines at different times and temperatures its electrical con
  ductivity. He makes a special study of ferric chloride, and
  shows that there is a considerable fall in its resistance-value ;
  he does not chemically estimate the amount of the change,
  nor give the products of the change. Such a chemical decom
  position I had suggested previously as the cause of the con
  ductivity-values for ferric-chloride solution not being inversely
  proportional to the dilution. FoussefeaU considers this
  change under the influence of temperature, and my results
  would show that the change increases with the dilution of the
  solution. Such, too, may be the reason for the peculiar
  behaviour of the alcohol solutions to which I have already
  drawn attention.
     This decomposition of the chlorides, and probably of other
  salts in solution, greatly complicates the measurement of
  conductivities of salt-solutions. It affects also the question of
   the change of conductivity with temperature.
     There are many salts for which such decomposition is
  entirely negligible. I have determined the temperature-
  coefficients of a number of different solutions ; the result of
   these experiments I hope to present on a future occasion. The
  resistances were measured up to temperatures of from 80° to
   100°; and after cooling down, the resistance-value for the
   temperature of the air was found not to have altered ; in
  these cases there could have been no definite chemical change
. in the solution ; the conductivity-values were found to be
  proportional to the temperature.
      This decomposition of the salt by the solvent perhaps throws
  light on the alteration in the value of the temperature-coeffi
   cient with dilution.
      Dr. Armstrong considers this change to be due to the fact
  that in concentrated solutions complex molecules exist, which
  are decomposed in dilute solutions ; for certain salt-solutions
   the temperature-coefficients decrease with dilution. Bouty*,
   in the Journal de Physique, gives the case of lead nitrate ;
   and I have found the same for mercuric-chloride solutions.
      If, under the action of the solvent, there are at high tempe
   ratures definite chemical changes, it seems impossible to hold
  the view of Arrhenius, that the action of the solvent is to
   cause the simple dissociation of the salt ; it is difficult to believe
   that in a moderately dilute solution 90 per cent, of hydro
   chloric acid should lie dissociated, the atoms of H and CI exist
   ing free, and that only 1 per cent, of acetic acid should be so
   dissociated.
                       Journal dr Physique, Jan. 1887.

390     Action of the Solvent in Electrolytic Conduction.
   The action of the solvents would seem to be twofold.
   (a) Firstly, in certain cases to cause a decomposition of
the salt, the amount of such decomposition depending on,
                    1. The temperature.
                    2. The solvent.
                    3. The state of dilution.
   (b) Secondly, there is the formation of molecular groups
in the solution ; there is definite experimental proof that
hydrates exist in concentrated solution ; and it follows that
such molecular groups, or more complex ones, exist in dilute
solution.
   The amount of water, or whatever the solvent mav be, in
dilute solution will be far in excess of that required to form
these molecular groups, and consequently there will be a
continual dissociation and recombination going on, within the
solution, of these molecular groups ; beyond a certain dilution
further dilution will not affect the amount of such dissocia
tion ; and hence the observed fact that in dilute solution the
conductivity is proportional to the amount of salt in solution.
When these molecular groups are dissociated or decomposed
by mutual collisions, it may be that the salt molecules being
brought together, there is an atomic interchange ; and that
at this moment the electromotive force asserts its directive
influence. But that there exist in the solution the " free "
atoms is untenable ; if free chlorine atoms are present in the
solution, the solution must have some of the properties of a
chlorine solution.
   It would be more satisfactory, I think, to consider the
whole of the decomposition as the result of the action of the
electromotive force, exerted at the moment of the decomposi
tion of the molecular groups ; but all the experiments on the
application of Ohm's law to electrolytes would show that this
is not the case.
   But the influence of molecular groups in the conductivity
of saline solutions must be admitted, and the solvent must not
be regarded on the one hand as a suspending medium for the
salt molecules, or on the other as a dissociating agent.
   Note.—Bouty, in the January number for this year of the
Journal de Phynque, states that the results obtained by the
method of alternate currents for dilute solution are quite
illusory, and he refers to the results that he and Foussereau
obtained when testing the method ; they employed a AVheat-
stone bridge, and placed in the fourth arm a resistance-coil
of considerable resistance, and used as indicator a telephone ;
when a coil of which the true resistance was 10,000 oluns

             Theory of the Contraction of a Solid Earth.            391
was employed, they obtained the minimum of sound in the
telephone with a resistance of 9,300. I have, therefore,
again tested my method for such effects : a coil of nearly a
thousand ohms was inserted in the fourth arm of my bridge,
and the values obtained with the ratio of the other arms,
10 : 10, 100 : 100, 1000 : 1000, were in the three cases the
same ; nor did they differ on varying the speed of alterna
tion, the value being also the same as when the commutator
was not working. What results may be obtained with a
telephone as indicator I do not know, but with the galvano
meter method the results obtained for dilute solutions need
not be considered as entirely illusory.
   Cavendish Laboratory, Cambridge.
 L. A Reply to Objections raised by Mr. Charles Davison,
    M.A., to the Argument on the Insufficiency of the Theory
    of the Contraction of a Solid Earth to account for the
    Inequalities or Elevations of the Surface. By Rev. O.
    Fisreb,AT.A, F.G.S.*
 A PAPER bv Mr. Davison has appeared in the ' Philo
          sophical transactions,' communicated by Professor
 Bonney, treating of the distribution of strain in the Earth's
 crust resulting from secular coolingf. It consists of two
 Earts. Part I. is of much interest, and shows that, upon the
   ypothesis of the earth having cooled as a solid sphere, there
 has always been a certain level, descending with the time,
 above which the strata are suffering compression, and below
 which they are being extended (" stretched "). An impor
 tant note upon the mathematical treatment of this question
 has been appended by Professor Darwin, who appears to have
 acted as referee. The existence of such an unstrained level
 had been already perceived by Mr. Mellard Readef.
      Part II. of Mr. Davison's paper is devoted to a criticism of
 my argument on the insufficiency of the contraction theory
 to account for the existing inequalities of the Earth's surface,
 and it is in defence of what I have published in this Magazine
  upon this subject, that I offer the following remarks.
      The whole question will be made more clear by considering
  first of all what would happen in two purely hypothetical
  cases.
      1. If a sphere were to be cooled suddenly throughout by
    • Communicated by the Author,
     t Phil. Trans. Roy. Soc. vol. 178 (1887), pp. 231-249.
     % ' The Origin of Mountain-Ranges,' chap. xi. (1880.) See Phil. Mag1.
  August 1887.

392              Rev. 0. Fisher on the Theory of
the same amount, the linear contraction being in that case
the same in all directions, it would become simply smaller,
without any tendency to either cracking or crumpling.
    2. If, however, the outer strata were to cool more than the
inner ones, it is clear that they would become too small to fit
the uncooled nucleus ; and this effect would reach down to
the level at which cooling, and therefore contraction, became
insensible. Supposing, then, that nothing further happened
to the rocks than a simple contraction according to Marriotte's
law, the strata must needs crack ; and we may imagine that
the crust would be divided up by fissures, widely gaping
towards the surface, into prisms similar in form to basaltic
columns, and reaching down to the uncooled matter. The
vertical thickness of a crust so cooled would be diminished
by the sum of the linear contractions of the thicknesses of
each infinitesimally thin shell in accordance with Marriotte's
law, and the circumference of each shell, not counting the
width of the cracks, would be shortened in proportion to the
entire fall of temperature which had been experienced by
that shell. The result in this second case, depending solely
upon Marriotte's law, would be independent of the time.
    3. Turning next to a third case, more nearly approaching
 what might be supposed to occur to a solid earth during the
 fall from the uniform high temperature of solidification to
 that which is its present distribution, the rate of cooling
 would not be the same at different depths. At any epoch,
 since the surface assumed the constant temperature of the atmo
 sphere, the cooling at the surface is nil. At a certain depth,
 where the cooling is insensible, it is again nil. At some
 intermediate depth, depending on the time, the rate of cooling
 is greatest ; and where it is greatest, there the rate of con
 traction will be greater than anywhere above or below that
 depth. In the case we are considering it is not probable that
 open cracks could anywhere be formed, unless just near the
 surface, because the weight of the superincumbent matter
 would press out the contracting shells laterally, so as to close
 them up. Under these circumstances we could not in general
 arrive at the change of dimensions by applying the coefficient
 of linear contraction to the horizontal and vertical dimensions
 separately of each shell ; but wherever the shell is extended
  (or " stretched ") we can only apply the coefficient of volu-
 minal contraction to the shell as a whole.
     Let us now fix our attention upon the condition of a par
 ticular shell of rock at the present epoch. We find it con
 tinuous and without open cracks, its temperature is falling,
 and, owing to the contraction of the sphere of matter interior

                  the Contraction of a Solid Earth.                 393
 to it, the shell is about to sink into a position where, being
 nearer to the centre, it will find less room to occupy. The
 question then is—Will the horizontal linear contraction of
 this shell exceed or fall short of that loss of room ? If it
 exceeds, the shell will tend to be extended. If, on the other
 hand, the contraction is less tban the loss of room due to the
 sinking through shortening of the radius, the shell will be
compressed. Mr. Davison has shown that near the surface
the shells are being compressed, and deeper down extended,
and that there is a certain level of no strain, where there is
neither extension nor compression ; and that this level sinks
deeper as time goes on. We see, then, that no compression
has ever taken place below the level of no strain, and that,
between the surface and it, all the shells have successively
passed from a state of extension into one of compression. In
calculating the amount of compression in this third case, it
will be necessary to have regard to the position of the level
of no strain at every successive moment from the commence
ment of the cooling, because it defines at that moment the
limit, below which compression does not reach. Any calcu
lation, in which we did not integrate for the time, would
therefore give an incorrect result in the case we are now
considering. I hope to send shortly a calculation of the mean
height of the elevations which might be formed on this
hypothesis.
    4. But we may make a fourth hypothesis, impossible no
doubt, but still one which, being "too highly favourable" in
its impossibility, will give an amount of compression, and
therefore of surface-elevations caused by it, greater than
 would be formed on the third and truer hypothesis. It is
that which I made in my paper in this Magazine*, and of
which Mr. Davison says that the argument based upon it
" loses its force when we consider the natural process of a
continuous and gradual cooling." But I submit that any
argument derived from the smallness of the elevations cannot
lose its force because the hypothesis, on which they have been
estimated, errs on the side of making them not small enough.
For observing that, upon the more correct hypothesis, the
compression, or folding, is the excess of the loss of room duo
to the sinking of a shell beyond the horizontal contraction
due to the cooling of that shell, if we neglect altogether
the horizontal contraction of the shells, every shell will be
compressed, and if, to keep the mass unchanged, we likewise
   * Phil. Mng. vol. xxiii. (1887) pp. 145-149. (In the figure to this
paper 0 should be }, and in the explanation of it OQ should be Oq.)
   Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 24. No. ]50. Nov. 1887.              2D

 394    Mr. Davison on the Relation between Size of a Planet
 throw tlio whole contraction into the vertical dimension, every
 shell will descend too far. It is obvious therefore that, on
 both accounts, we get too much compression or folding.
 These are the suppositions that I made to simplify the cal
 culation. The amount of sinking of the shells, and consequent
 compression owing to loss of room, is then simply caused by
 the total contraction in the vertical of the matter interior to
 each shell ; and does not depend upon when the contraction
 occurred, or how long it took ; and is therefore independent
 of the time ; and is so far not according to nature. But
 nevertheless, seeing that it gives a superior limit to the com
 pression and consequent elevations, if we find the result too
 small to suit the observed facts, it furnishes an a fortiori
 argument against the so-called "contraction theory."
    The tidal theories of Professors Pierce and Darwin, ap
pealed to in section 19 of Mr. Davison's paper to supplement
 the contraction-theory, involve considerations of so much
complexity that I make no reference to them here.
 LI. Note on the Relation hetieeen the Size of a Planet and the
    Rate of Mountain-building on its Surface. By Charles
    Davison, M.A., Mathematical Master at King Edivard's
    High School, Birmingham.*
1. TN a recent paper f I have investigated the distribution
     J- of strain in the earth's crust resulting from secular
cooling, supposing the earth to have been initially at a high
temperature and practically solid throughout. Other condi
tions being the same, it is not difficult to show that, the
smaller a planet, the more rapid is the rate of mountain-
building on its surface, at any rate in the early periods of its
history.
    Supposing the planet to consist of an uncooled spherical
nucleus surrounded by a series of very thin concentric sphe
rical shells, of internal radii r0, rj, . . . . respectively (begin
ning from the nucleus), then the change of radius of the inner
surface of the (?t+l)th shell in a given time is proportional
t0          ^W.Se0 + rli.*ei+ .... +rn'.89n),
where Bd is the difference in the rates of cooling of two con
secutive shells, and e is the coefficient of expansion^. If this
   * Communicated by the Author.
   t " On the Distribution of Strain in the Earth's Crust resulting from
Secular Cooling, &c," Phil. Trans, vol. 178 (,1887), A. pp. 231-24:2.
  X Ibid. p. 233.

          and Rate of Mountain-building on its Surface.          395
expression be positive, the corresponding shell is stretched ;
if it be negative, the shell is folded. The following reasoning
shows that there exists a surface of zero-strain within the
planet*, below which its crust is stretched, and above which
it is crumpled.
    2. At the surface of greatest rate of cooling, 89 is zero.
Let rx be the radius of this surface, and r„ the radius of the
planet. Then, if cooling has not yet sensibly begun at the
centre, we know that
  800 + 80,+ ....               = 89ji+l +           + 80nl + 80n,
numerically, the terms on the left side being positive, and on
the right negative.
    On either side of the surface of greatest rate of cooling, let
 there be the same number of shells, and their thicknesses such
 that, numerically, 80o=80n, $#i = 80n_i, and so on.
    Then, in the series
                 r03.^o + V.S^+ .... +rns.8ea> . . (1)
we have
                        80n=—80o, and rn>r0,
                  . • . r*. 8dn + r03 . 80o is negative.
 This is the case with every pair of terms equidistant from the
 beginning and end of the series.
    Therefore, the sum of the series is negative.
     But the terms from r03 . 80o to rj_j . 80x-i are all positiye.
 Starting, then, from the first term, it follows that up to and
 including a certain term ry3 . 80y, y being greater than x and
 less than n, the sum is zero.
    Hence, there exists a surface of zero-strain within the
 sphere.
    If cooling have begun at the centre, this simply cuts off
 some of the terms from the beginning of the series, and its
 effect is to still further deepen the surface of zero-strain.
    3. If the radius of the sphere be infinitely great, the ratios
 of rn to r0, of rM_i to rx , &c., are unity, and the sum of the
 series (1) is zero ; t. e. the surface of zero-strain coincides
 with the surface of the sphere. In other words, on a globe
 of very large radius, provided its surface be initially smooth
 and spherical, no mountain-ranges can be formed by contrac
 tion from secular cooling, during a very long time from the
 commencement of its history. And, in any case, the course
 of geological change on such a body will probably be very
 different from what we know it to have been upon the earth.
   * The same proof holds of course for any sphere, however small,
 cooling from a uniform temperature.
                                 2 D2

396    Rate of Mountain-building on the Surface of a Planet.
   4. Sir W. Thomson's well-known solution in his " Secular
Cooling of the Earth " applies without sensible error to the
earth, and even to smaller bodies, for many millions of years
from the time of consolidation. This being the case, the rate
of cooling at a given depth and time is for a considerable
period independeTit of the radius of the planet.
   Let z and z1 be any pair of depths below the surface of a
sphere for which the values of 86 are numerically equal, J
being the greater. Then, r being the radius of the sphere,
                         rJZL=1+zL~Z
                         r — zf         i— 2"
which increases as >• decreases, since z' is greater than z and
less than r.
   Hence, the smaller the radius of the sphere the greater are
the ratios of rn to r0, of       to rlt and so on ; and therefore
the deeper is the surface of zero-strain at any time below the
surface of the sphere.
   5. The amount of folding of any thin shell of radius rn and
thickness a is Hnrarnd*, where
           d=%(t*+l.Mt+l+ .... + r„3.o0n),
\ heing a constant, and ry the radius of the surface of zero-
strain.
   Now, in any given time, with the assumed law of cooling,
the values of 8dn, etc., are the saino whatever be the radius of
the sphere. If, then, the radius of the sphere bo large com
pared with the depth of the surface of zero-strain (which is
the case in the early periods of a planet's history), the above
expression shows that d varies very nearly as rn, the radius of
the shell.
   Suppose, for a moment, that at any time since consolida
tion the depth of the surface of zero-strain is independent of
the radius of the planet, and let the crust between its surface
and the surface of zero-strain be always divided into the same
number of shells, so that at a given time the thickness (a) of
each shell is the same.
   In this case, then, 'S.Sirard varies as ra very nearly, and
therefore, if the depth of the surface of zero-strain were the
same in all planets after the same period of cooling, the total
amount of rock-folding in a given time in a planet would
vary as the area of its surface.
   But, as shown above, the depth of the surface of zero-strain
                          * Ibid. p. 2.'?0.

                    Twin Prisms for Polarimeters.                       397
is greater the less the radius of the sphere. Hence, at a
given time since consolidation, the rate of rock-folding on
the smaller of two planets is to that on the larger in a greater
ratio than the surface of the former to the surface of the
latter.
    6. Nothing can be inferred from this as to the relative
heights of individual mountain-ranges on different planets.
If, however, at the same periods of their history, the
mountains on a small planet bo of the same or less average
height than on a large one, then the rate of continental evolu
tion on the former must, area for area, be greater than on the
 latter ; or, cceteris paribus, the continents of a small planet
encroach upon its ocean-areas more rapidly than do those of a
larger one.
    Perhaps this may tn part account for the possibly advanced
state of development of the planet Mars, as indicated by what
seem to be its comparatively extensive continents and narrow
ocean-beds.
                LI I. Twin Prisms for Polarimeters.
        1 By Professor Silvanus P. Thompson, D.Sc*
 TO explain the points of novelty in the new twin-prisms
         now exhibited by the author, a brief vexuttie of some of
 the recent advances in polarimetry is needed. In the earliest
 apparatus, dating from the time of Piot, the polarizer was
 usually a bundle of glass plates, the analyzer a simple double-
 image prism or Nicol prism provided with a divided circle to
 measure its rotation. With the subsequent substitution of
 compensators and of spectroscopic apparatus in the analyzing
 portion of the apparatus, this paper has no concern, inasmuch
 as the prisms to be described are intended to serve as polar
 izers only, not as analyzers.
    When the polarizer was a mere bundle of plates, or a Nicol
 prism, producing simple plane-polarized light of approximately
 homogeneous complaneity all over the visual field of the
 apparatus, exact measurements of the angle of rotation were
 not easy, simply because the eye failed, through a certain
 range of angle, to determine the precise position of the
 analyzer giving maximum extinction of light. For more
 exact polarimetry, Soleilf, in 1845, introduced the biquartz
   * Communicated by the author, having been read before Section A
 of the British Association Meeting at Manchester.
    t Comptes Benelux, xx. p. 1805, 1845 ; xxi. p. 4l'C, 1845 ; xxiv. p. 073,
 1847 ; and xxvi. p. 103, 184S.

  398                 Prof. Silvanus P. Thompson on
   plate, and the eye, instead of trying to determine the absolute
   degree of blackness, had merely to make a comparison be
   tween the tints of the two simultaneously visible halves of the
   visual field. With the same object Pohl*, in 1856, suggested
   the use of a tbin piece of mica covering part of the visual
   field. This suggestion was improved upon in 1874 by
   Laurentt, who proposed to cover half the polarized field with
   a half-wave plate of quartz ; this construction being known
   as the saccharimkre a p&wmbres, or half-shadoio polarizer.
   In the Laurent apparatus, the two halves of the visible field
  are consequently polarized in planes inclined to one another
  at an angle dependent on the position given to the half-wave
  plate.
       In 1860, Jellett J introduced the ingenious triple image
  prism, in which, at either side of an ordinary image, are seen
  two extraordinary images, having their respective planes
  of polarization inclined at a small angle to one another.
   Hence, when one of these two images is at maximum extinc
  tion, the other will not be quite extinguished ; and as a very
  small angular displacement will greatly affect the relative
  amounts of light in these two images, the adjustment to
  equality by the eye gives the exact position of the mean plane
  of polarization of the two images within a very narrow range.
  In Jellett's apparatus this prism was used as an analyzer
  only.
       Based upon this idea, Cornu§, in 1873, suggested a prism
  a penombres, constructed by Duboscq, consisting of a Nicol
 prism, which, having been cut in two longitudinally, in a
 plane at right angles to the balsam-film, and a small wedge
 ground away, was reunited with balsam, so giving in the two
 halves of the visible field light polarized in planes at a small
 angle to one another. In Cornu's apparatus, this divided
 Nicol prism was to be used as analyzer, with an ordinary
 simple polarizer. Schmidt and Haensch||, in 1878, simplified
 this construction by cutting out the wedge from one half of
 the Nicol prism only, and again reuniting the parts.
 LippichU, in 1882, suggested for the same purpose covering
 half the polarized field with a smaller polarizing prism rotated
     * Wiener Berichte, xxii. p. 492, 1856.
    t Journal de Physique (1) iii. p. 183, 1874. See also Dufet in Journal
 de Physique (2) i. p. 652, 1882.
     % Rep. Brit. Assoc. 1800, ii. p. 13 ; Troc. Eoy. Irish Acad. viii. p. 279,
 1803 ; Trans. Roy. Irish Acad. xxv. p. 371, 1875.
    § Bulletin Sue! Chim. [2] xiv. p. 140.
     || See Landolt, Bericht iiber die Polarixationsapparote, Berlin, 1880.
    ^1 Zeitschnft fiir Instrumentenkunde, ii. p. 170, 1882 ; Wiener Berichte,
xci. p. 1059, 1885.

                    Twin Prisms for Polarimeters.                   399
through a small angle, thereby attaining a similar result, but
admitting of adjustment in the angle. He proposed to use
square-ended prisms constructed like those described by the
author* in 1881, having the balsam-film in a principal plane
of section of the crystal, and having the end-faces also prin
 cipal planes of section. A similar arrangement has been used
 by von Helmholtz. Piighif has proposed a combination of
two Nicol prisms laid parallel to one another, with two pairs
 of plates of parallel-worked glass set V-wiso to divide, and
again reunite side by side the beams traversing the two
Nicols. Poynting % has suggested the use of a shallow cell
covering the polarized field and containing a sugar solution,
but into which a plate of glass is introduced, so as to diminish,
over half the field, the thickness of the interposed solution,
and so bring about a small angular difference of displacement
of the plane of polarization between the two halves of the
field. Another suggestion due to Poynting is to cover the
two halves of the field with a quartz plate, of any convenient
thickness, but reduced uniformly by a small amount, say
O'l millim. over one half. Lastly, Pickering § has suggested
 the use of a double-image prism, arranged like the prism of a
 dichroiscope, so as to give two contiguous but oppositely-
polarized images of a rectangular aperture placed beyond it.
 These will appear equally illuminated only when the analyzer
is at 45°, or when the illumination of each is half the
maximum illumination of either.
    In the two forms of twin-prisms that are now exhibited,
 the angle between the planes of polarization in the two halves
 of the field of vision is fixed. In the one it is 90°, in the
other about 2° '60'.
    In 1886 the author described some forms of simple polari
zing prisms cut for him by Mr. Ahrens on the plan adopted
by that clever constructor for the later forms of his triple
prisms, the principle of which consists in finding a pair of
characteristic planes within the crystal of iceland spar such
that they are at right angles with the terminal faces (which
are principal planes of section), and so oriented that they
pass through the line of intersection made by the terminal
faces with the natural faces of cleavage. Prisms made on
this plan, which is a mere modification of the plan suggested
   • S. P. Thompson, Rep. Brit. Assoc. 1681, ii. p. 563, and Phil. Mag.
Nov. 1881, p. 34K.
   t Repertorium der Physik, xxii. p. 321, 188G.
   | See Glazebrook's Physical Optics, p. 409.
   § Proc. Anier. Acad. May, 1885. See also Zeiuchrift fur Imtru-
mentenkunde, vi. p. 281, 188B.

  400               Twin Prisms for Polarimeters.
  by the author in 1881, have several advantages over ordinary
  Nicol prisms. Their polarized field is more homogeneous,
  their transverse section is rectangular, their terminal faces
  are at right angles to the axis of vision ; and by the method
  of construction adopted it is easy to obtain from one piece of
  spar two identical prisms cut from a single rectangular block.
  These points are all of advantage for the present purpose,
  namely, that of perfecting the apparatus for use in precise
  polarimetry.
     Prisms cut on Ahrens's plan also possess another pecu
  liarity ; the terminal faces are, as mentioned above, principal
  planes of section, but the crystallographic axis lies in these
  faces at almost exactly 45° with the rectangular edges.
  Hence it oomes about that, if one of these simple prisms be
  reversed end for end, while used as either polarizer or analyzer,
  the dark field is changed to bright field, or vice versa, the same
  as if the prism had been rotated about its axis of vision
 through 90°. This is, of course, not the case with any of the
 ordinary Nicol, Foucault, or Hartnack prisms. Suppose,
  then, that two identical prisms, cut as described, are taken,
 of narrow rectangular cross-section, having the sides of the
 section in the proportion of 2 : 1. Let them be placed side
 by side so that, as the light falls through them, the visible
juxtaposed fields of vision form the two halves of a square.
 Let one prism be then reversed end for end. The juxtaposed
 field of vision would still be a square divided into two halves ;
 but these two halves will be oppositely polarized. Such a
 twin-prism can be used for polarimetry exactly as the Picker
 ing prism or as these half-shadow combinations, in which there
 is a fixed angle of 90° between the planes of polarization of
 the two halves of the visual field. The first twin-prism now
 exhibited by the author is of this nature.
    In the second form of twin-prism, the same mode of con
struction is followed so far as the cutting of two identical
 prisms of narrow rectangular section is concerned ; but, after
the prisms have been cut, a small wedge of about 2° 30' is
ground away from the side of one of thein, and they are then
again juxtaposed, so that there is this amount of angular dis
placement between the two halves of their joint visual field.
In both cases the two prisms are ground together and
cemented by balsam, so that the observer sees merely a fine
line of junction down the middle of the visual field.
    The author considers such constructions superior to that of
Riglii, because there is much less loss of light by reflexion at
oblique surfaces ; he also prefers his method to the methods
of Laurent and of Poynting, because there is no difference in

               On the Tlieory of Unipolar Induction.             401
the angular displacement for light of different wave-lengths,
as is inevitable where quartz, mica, or sugar is used to pro
duce a rotation in one half of the field. It is preferable to
Jellett's, because, in the Jellett prism, not only do the two
images of varying intensity, which are to be compared, not
lie in juxtaposition to one another, but there is the ordinary
image lying between them interfering with the comparison.
 Lastly, the twin-prisms now described are more easy to con
struct than the divided Nicol prisms of Coruu and of Schmidt
and Haensch.
   September, 1887.
 LIII. On the, Tlieory of Unipolar Induction. By Prof. E.
    Edlund, Professor of Physics at the Royal Academy of
    Sciences of Sweden*.
                                 § 1.
INCREASE or decrease in the intensity of the pole of
        a magnet produces, in a conductor which is approach
ing it, an electromotive force tending to create an electric
current. The increase or decrease in the distance between
the pole and the conductor gives rise to a like force, seeing
 that the action of the pole increases or diminishes in this case
 as in the former. The electric currents proceeding from this
 cause are said in both cases to be due to magneto- electric
induction ; but it is also possible to produce electric cur
rents by means of a magnetic pole without increasing or de
 creasing the intensity of the pole, and without increasing or
 decreasing the distance between the pole and the conductor.
 It is said, then, that the production of the electric current is
due to unipolar induction ; an expression which is in no sense
appropriate, seeing that the conditions necessary for the pro
duction of the first-mentioned currents are not applicable to
the production of the second, and that moreover the addi
tional term unipolar is the result of a mode of explaining the
origin of the currents mentioned which is actually without
meaning. These currents are not produced by induction, in
the proper and original meaning of the term, but they appear
rather, as will bo shown further on, to have a magneto-electric
origin—that is to say, to be due to the direct action of the
magnet on an electric current. It is chiefly in Germany that
the theory of the so-called Unipolar Induction has been de
veloped, and attempts made to defend the theory against
objections which have been recently raised against it.
   • Translated from a memoir presented to the Academy of Sciences of
Sweden on the 9th of March, 1887. Cummunicated by the Author.

  402                 Prof. E. Edlund on the Theory
      A correct notion of the true cause and nature of unipolar
  induction is of especial importance, because of the results
  which may be deduced from it in the explanation of several
  natural phenomena. I shall therefore attempt to show in the
  following pages that the theory hitherto accepted for the phe
  nomena of unipolar induction is opposed to the principle of
  the conservation of energy, and that therefore it must be ad
  mitted to be erroneous. I shall show moreover, in a manner
  more complete than has previously been attempted*, that the
  theory of the same phenomena which I advanced a few years
  ago may be derived from the same principle, and that it ought
  therefore to lead to certain results.
                                     § 2.
     To fix ideas, let us start from a particular example which
  may be considered as a typical example of unipolar induction
  generally. Let sn be a cylindrical mag-                    Fig. 1.
  net having the sotith pole at s and the
  north pole at n, and a b the section, in the
  plane of the paper, of a jacket concentri
 cally surrounding the magnet, very easily
 movable, like the magnet itself, and capable
 of being put into rotation about the axis of
 the latter. Let bed a represent a metallic
 wire pressing with its ends against the
  upper and lower edges of the jacket, and
 into which a galvanometer may be intro
 duced. Experiments made at various times
  by different physicists have led, as is well
 known, to the following results :—
     1. If the jacket only be put into rota tion
 in a direction opposite to that of the hands of a watch as seen
 from above, we obtain an induced current in the direction
 abed a. If the rotation take place in the opposite direction,
 the current will also go in the opposite direction. The inten
 sity of the current is proportional to the intensity of the
 magnet and to the velocity of the jacket.
    2. If the magnet and the jacket are in rotation with the
 same angular velocity, or, in other words, if they may be con
 sidered as relatively fixed, we obtain a current of the same
force and in the same direction as in the preceding case. The
 magnet may be in rotation in any direction and with a greater
or less velocity at the same time as the jacket; the induced
   * Bulletin (Ofversiyt) des travmix de tAcad. r. des Sciences de Suede
pour 1877 ; Wied. Ann. t. ii. p. 347 ; Mimoires (Handlingar) de CAcad.
r. des Sciences, t. xvi. 1878; Phil. Mag. [6] vi. p. 280; Ann. de Chim. tt
de Phys. tome xvi. p. 47 (1870).

                       of Unipolar Induction.                       403
current will always be the same as if the jacket only were in
rotation.
    3. If the magnet is in rotation whilst the jacket is at rest,
 no current is produced in the circuit.
    4. If, without undergoing any change in their relative
 position, the jacket and the wire are in rotation round the
magnet no current results. If we remove the jacket and put
 one end of the wire in contact with one of the poles, and the
other end in contact with the middle of the magnet, a current
is produced when the wire onlv is in rotation. On the other
hand, the current disappears if the magnet and the electrode are
 in rotation in the same direction and with the same angular
 velocity. (Experiments of Profs. F. Exner and Czermak.)
    It has been attempted to give the following explanations of
 the results of these experiments in accordance with the theory
 in favour :—
    1. The current obtained in case No. 1 is produced by the
 electromotive forces having their seat in the jacket in rotation.
    2. The current produced in No. 2, when the magnet and
 the jacket are in rotation with the same angular velocity,
 cannot, according to the old theory, be due to the electro
 motive forces having their seat in the jacket ; for it is admitted
 as an axiom that a magnet is incapable of producing induc
tion in a conductor with which it is fixedly united*. The
theory proves, in fact, that the electromotive force has its
 origin in the wire at rest, bcda ; and that it is, in intensity
 and direction, equal to the force which would be produced if
 the wire were in rotation in the opposite direction with the
same angular velocity, whilst the jacket and the magnet
remained at rest.
    If the angular velocity of the magnet is different from that
of the jacket and is denoted by t'„ that of the jacket being
 denoted by rs, and if both take place in the same direction,
 their relative velocity would be r4 — vt. Now the electro
motive force produced in the jacket must be proportional to
this difference. But the rotation of the magnet will give rise
to an electromotive force in the wire at rest, bed a, propor
 tional to          If we add these two expressions together, the
sum is vs ; that is to say, the same electromotive force as if
 the jacket alone had been in rotation.
    3. The old theory explains the results given under No. 3,
by the supposition that the rotation of the magnet gives rise
in the jacket to an electromotive force equal to that which is
    * Wiedemann, Die Lehre von der Elect ricitat, t. iv. 1. §§ 67 &c.
(Braunschweig, 1885) ; Wiillner, Lehrbuch der Exp. Physik, t. iv. p. 806
(Leipzig, 1875) ; and several other works.

404                Prof. E. Edlund on the Theory
produced in the wire, but acting in the opposite direction, so
that the intensity of the current becomes zero.
   4. The result indicated under No. 4 is explained in a similar
manner.
   The fact that, in the case given under No. 2, the induction
produced in the wire at rest when the magnet is in rotation
round its axis ought to be equal to that produced when the
magnet is at rest, but the wire enters into rotation in the op
posite direction but with the same angular velocity about the
magnet, may, according to this theory, be explained as fol
lows :—The lines of force, imagined by Faraday, are in rotation "
with the same*angular velocity as the magnet ; and the electro
motive force produced is proportional to the number of lines
of force which the conducting-wire traverses in a given time.
But since evidently the wire encounters an equal number of
lines of force, whether the magnet is in rotation and the wire
at rest, or whether it is the wire which rotates and the magnet
which is at rest, the induction, according to this hypothesis,
must be equal in the two cases.
                                    §3.
   The only method by which we can give a certain explana
tion of the origin of the currents in question is given us by
the mechanical theory of heat, a theory of which 1 have made
use for this purpose some time since. Let us introduce into
the conducting-wire bed a (fig. 1) a battery producing a cur
rent, which passes through the closed circuit in the direction
abed a. In consequence of the action of the magnet upon
the current which traverses the jacket, it commences to move
in the direction, as seen from above, of the hands of a watch.
We may observe that here the magnet itself does not enter
into rotation. It may without appreciable resistance be turned
as much on the one side as on the other by an external force.
If now we reduce the jacket to rest by means of an interposed
obstacle, which we will call in this case the electromotive
force, denoting it by E, the resistance in the circuit itself being
denoted by m, and the intensity of the current by I ; and,
lastly, if we call A the calorific equivalent of the unit of work,
the sum of all the heat developed by the resistance in the
circuit will be equal to APm, and the heat consumed* in the
battery for the production of the current will be equal to AEI.
But, since these two quantities must be equal, since the cur
rent has not produced any external work, we shall have
                              FM-EI = 0                            (1)
  * MSmoires (Handlingar) de I'Acad. r. des Sciences de Suede, t. xiv.
Pogg. Ann. t. clix. (1870) ; Phil. Mag. [5] vol. iii.

                       of Unipolar Induction-.                  405
    If we let the jacket enter into rotation it will produce ex
ternal mechanical work, and the development of heat will
consequently be less than before. This is brought about by
the production, in the jacket in rotation, of an electromotive
force sending a current in the opposite direction to that of the
battery. If we denote this current by i, the production of
heat in this case will be
  A { (I - 1)2m - E (I - i) \ = A { Vm - E I - 2Jim + Pm + Ei } .
In other terms [if we pay attention to equation (1)], there is
produced in the closed circuit a loss of heat equal to
                             Aim(I-i)                             (2)
   The value of the external work done will then be equal to
this loss.
    In conformity with the law of Biot-Savart, a magnetic pole
acts upon an element of the current with a force equal to the
intensity of the pole divided by the square of the distance to
the element, and multiplied also by the intensity of the cur
rent and the length of the element, and by the sine of the angle
a formed by the element and the line of junction between the
pole and the element : the direction of this force is normal to
the plane passing through the pole and the element. If the
direction of motion of the element makes an angle <}> with the
 normal in question, we obtain of course the component of the
 force along the line of motion by multiplying the expression
 further by cos <f>. If we denote the velocity of the element
 by h, the intensity of the pole by M, and the intensity of the
 current by (I— i), and, lastly, the distance between the pole
 and the element by p, we have, as the expression of the me
 chanical work due to the action of the pole upon an element
 of the current dz,
                       M(I-i) sin
                       ——-.—¦                    . .
                                   . a cos <p. . hdz. . .
                            P
    In fig. 2, let s n represent a magnet, and a b a
 jacket through which a current (I — i) passes from
 a to b. Let the distance between the two poles
 be 21, and the length of a b half this distance, viz.
 1; and let the radius of the jacket be r. Let us
 consider at first an elements of the jacket situated
 at the point 0 at the distance z from a. The dis
 tance p from the south pole to dz is then equal to
                                        r
x/r*+ (l—z)2, and sin a =                             The
                                       + (l-zf
normal to the plane passing through the south
 pole and the element coinciding with the direction

406              Prof. E. Edlund on the Theory
of motion of the jacket, cos <f> will be unity. If the jacket
moves with the velocity h, the work done in unit time by
the action of the pole upon the current dz will be equal to
                          Mr(I-i)hdz
In a similar manner, we obtain for the north pole
                         -~Mr(I-i)hdz
By integration of these expressions between 2=0 and z=l,
we have for the whole jacket
 Multiplying this expression by A, we obtain the quantity of
 heat corresponding to the amount of work in question.
    Consequent^ we have from the formulas (2) and (4),
        tm(I-»)=2M(I-tU.-(                         1   r).
    If we remove the battery from the circuit so that 1 = 0, the
 preceding equation nevertheless continues applicable if the
 jacket is maintained in rotation by an external mechanical
 force so that h does not become equal to zero. In this form
 the equation shows that the square of the intensity of the in
 duced current multiplied by the resistance of the circuit is
 equal to the mechanical work consumed in the rotation of the
 jacket. If this work is zero, the intensity of the current will
 also be zero.
    If we suppose that the jacket consists only of an element
 of the circuit As, we shall obtain, by equating the expressions
 (2) and (3), after dividing the first by A and putting I equal
 to zero, the following law for the induction in an element of
 the circuit in rotation round a magnetic pole :—
                   1     M • •         i,*
                   i'm= ^jiemj cos <phAs
 or
                    im= ^j-sin a cos <ph As                  (5)
    Consequently, when an element of the circuit is in rotation
 round a magnetic pole, the induced current which results is
 proportional to the magnetic intensity at the place where the
 element is, multiplied by the sine of the angle which the ele

                       of Unipolar Induction.                      407
ment forms with the line drawn from the element to the pole,
by the cosine of the angle between the direction of rotation
of the element and the normal to the plane passing through
the element and the pole, and, lastly, by the velocity and the
length of the element. It should be observed in this respect
that h does not denote the angular velocity of the element of
the circuit, but the length of path described by the element in
unit time. Without consumption of mechanical work no in
duced current, with its resulting development of heat, could
be produced.
   When the element of the circuit moves in a uniform and
homogeneous magnetic field, as, for example, that due to the
horizontal component of the earth's magnetism, Helmholtz
and Sir W. Thomson* have obtained the same expression for
the induced current as that contained in the preceding equa
tion (5). It is thus evident that these formulae ought to be
equal in the two cases ; since the action of a magnetic pole
upon an element of the circuit which moves at a uniform dis
tance from the pole ought to be continually of the same mag
nitude, and consequently would be under the same conditions
as if the element moved in a homogeneous magnetic field.
                                  §4.
   The law given above in formula (5) for the inductive action
of a magnetic pole upon an element of a circuit in motion
does not indicate in any manner how the current is produced,
nor the relation of this phenomenon to other electrical phe
nomena. I now propose a new formula showing this relation
ship, which is also of a more convenient form, and I shall
show mathematically that this new formula may be deduced
from formula (5).
   I imagine to myself that the induction is produced in the
following manner :—If the electric current consists really in
the transport of a fluid, as soon as the element of the circuit
begins to move the fluid would be carried with it in the direc
tion of motion, and wrould thus produce a current upon which
a magnetic pole could act, according to the known law of
Biot-Savart. If /S be tho angle formed by the direction of
motion with the line drawn from the element of the circuit to
the pole, and        the angle made by the element with the
normal to the plane passing through the direction of motion
and the line joining the pole and the element ; if then h be
the velocity of the element of the circuit, and As its length,
we shall have, in accordance with the law mentioned above,
       * Blavier, Des grandeurs electriques, p. 368 (Paris, 1881).

408              Prof. E. Edlund on the Theory
the expression
                            M
                   im = e= -j sin |3 cos^/tAs   ....           (6)
for the force with which the magnetic pole tends to conduct
the electric fluid along the element of the circuit, i. e. for the
electromotive force of induction.
   In this expression e denotes the electromotive force, and i,
m, M, and p have the same meaning as before. If the phe
nomena of unipolar induction can be explained by the aid of
this formula, that would show that there is reason to see in
them electrodynamic phenomena having no connexion with
the phenomena of induction strictly so-called.
   I shall show presently that formula (6) is identical with
the formula (5) deduced from the mechanical theory of heat.
   In fig. 3 let aC represent the element of the circuit in
which the induction takes place, b C the direction of motion
                              Fig. 3.
                           c
of this element, and C P the line of junction between the
magnetic pole and the element of the circuit. The lines A C
and B C are drawn at right angles to the line C P ; the first
in the plane passing through a C and C P, and the second in
the plane passing through b C and C P. Lastly, F C is the
normal to the plane b C P, and G C the normal to the plane
a C P. It follows from this that the lines G C, B C, A C, and
F C all lie in one plane, since each of them is perpendicular
to C P. But since the angles F C B and G C A are both
right angles, it follows that if we take away the angle A C B
the angles F C A and B C G are eqtial.
   According to formula (5), deduced from the mechanical
theory of heat, the element of the circuit aC = As ought to
be multiplied by sin (aCP), or, since the angle ACP is a

                       of Unipolar Induction.                409
 right angle, by cos (ACa). It will be necessary, finally, to
 multiply this product by the cosine of the angle made by the
 direction of movement with the normal to the plane aCP,
 i. e. by cos(£»CG). But the plane GCB being perpendicular
 to the plane bCB, the dihedral angle B is a right angle. We
 obtain consequently from the spherical triangle,
             BGb : cos (6CG) = cos (GCB) : cos (JOB).
    The law of induction (5), deduced from the mechanical
 theory of heat, obtains thus the following form :—
               M
          im= cos (aC A) cos (GCB) cos (iCB) . AA«. . (5b)
     We will now transform formula ((i) in a similar manner.
     As before, let aC denote the element of the circuit A*, and
 let bC indicate the direction of movement or the direction of
 the current of translation produced by the motion of the ele
 ment of the circuit. This current must be multiplied by
 sin (£>CP), or, what comes to the same thing, by cos (bCB).
 The magnetic pole tends to conduct it into the normal to the
 plane passing through CP and bC, i. e. in the direction FC.
 To obtain the component in the direction aC of the element
 of the circuit it will be necessary to multiply, finally, by
 cos (aCF) . The expression for the induction thus becomes
                    -cos (aCF) cos {bCB)hAs                   (a)
    In the spherical triangle aAF, the dihedral angle at A is a
 right angle ; we obtain therefore
                cos (aCF)= cos (aCA) cos (FCA).
    Introducing into the formula (a) these values of cos (aCF),
 and recollecting moreover that cos (FCA) = cos (GCB), we
 have the desired formula of induction, viz.
                M
           im = ~ cos (aCA) cos (GCB) cos (bCB) h&s, . (5b)
a formula identical with the formula (5b).
    The formula (6) established by me for the calculation of
the unipolar induction in an element of the circuit moving in
a magnetic field ought therefore to give correct results.
    It is evident that the magnitude of the induction depends
on the relative movement between the magnetic pole and the
element of the circuit. But the relative movement is not
altered if we give to the pole and to the element equal and
parallel velocities in the same direction. Having regard to
   Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 24. No. 150. Nov. 1887.        2E

410               Prof. E. Edlund on the Theory
this condition, we may imagine, in the calculation of the mag
nitude of the induction, that the magnetic pole is at rest, and
that the element of the circuit actually moves with a velocity
equal in magnitude and direction to the resultant of the
original velocity, and of a velocity equal to that of the magnet
but in the opposite direction.
                                §5.
    1. I now propose to make use of what has been said in the
preceding pages for the explanation of the experiments men
tioned above in § 2.
   When the jacket only is in rotation, whilst the magnet and
the wire are at rest, it is evident that the electromotive force
ought to be produced in the jacket. The old theory and that
 which I am expounding agree in this respect. But this
 agreement ceases when we pass to the second case, that where
the magnet and the jacket are put into rotation about the
 axis of the former. We will suppose at first the magnet and
 the jacket in rotation in the same direction and with the same
 angular velocity. In this case the two may be considered as
 united ; and it is not possible, according to the old theory, to
 produce an electromotive force in the jacket; but the induc
 tion ought (always in accordance with the same theory) to
 take place in the metallic wire at rest. But it is of course
 impossible to admit that induction may take place in the wire
 from the fact that the jacket is in motion ; and in the case
 where an induction is caused by it, that this induction ought
 to be duo to the rotation of the magnet. But, as was remarked
 above, the magnet may bo put into rotation either in the one
 direction or the other without consuming other work than that
 necessary to overcome the torsion of the thread by which the
 magnet is suspended, or the friction against the angles which
 support it. But such a consumption of work has nothing to
 do with the production of electricity. It is possible never
 theless that the induced current offers some slight obstacle to
 the rotation, although this obstacle may be too small to be
 perceptible. The old theory, that the production of the
 induced current takes place without the consumption of me
 chanical force, cannot, consequently, be correct. According
 to my theory, on the contrary, the rotation of the magnet
 in this case is without appreciable importance in the forma
 tion of the current ; for the reason that, in virtue of well-
 known experiments, the resulting induced current does not
 offer any sensible obstacle to the rotation. By far the most
 important part of the induction is produced in the jacket
 altogether as if the magnet were at rest. The rotation of the

                      of Unipolar Induction.                   411
magnet is thus almost without importance for the induction.
The two theories diverge in this case in an essential manner ;
and this divergence is of great importance for the use of the
theory to explain several other natural phenomena. The fact
that the rotation of the magnet is without real significance in
the case in question may be proved more completely in the
following manner.
   2. Supposing that the circle bed/ (fig. 4) represents the
horizontal section of a vertical magnet, in which plane one of
                               Fig. 4.
                             m
the poles lies (e. g. the south pole), and that vertically beneath
a there is an element of the vertical circuit A« ; and let us
suppose that the element of the circuit and the magnet are
both in rotation with the angular velocity v in the direction
of the arrow about the axis o of the magnet. Let us then
denote by R the distance from the element of the circuit
beneath a to the axis of the magnet, taking the radius oe of
the magnet equal to r, and supposing that the element As is at
a distance H vertically below the horizontal plane first men
tioned. Let us further suppose a vertical plane passing through
the vertical element of the circuit As and the axis of the mag
net, and that another vertical plane passes through the same
element and the point c situated on the circumference of the
magnet at the angular distance w from the line o m. The first
of these vertical planes will consequently intersect the hori
zontal plane mentioned along ao and the second along ac.
The element of the circuit A s moves in the direction ag = v R,
                              2 E2

412              Prof. E. Edlund on the Theory
and the point c in the direction cn = vr. Let us now suppose
the magnet divided into elementary magnets, of which we
have to consider only those situated at the circumference of
the magnet, since all the others may be treated in a similar
manner. If we call M the magnetic intensity per unit of
length of the circumference, the intensity which corresponds
to the differential of the angle u will be equal to Mrrfw. We
will now calculate by means of the formula (6) the magnitude
of the induction which is produced in the element of the
circuit As, when this element and the ring of the magnet are
in rotation in the same direction with the angular velocity ».
   Let us give to the element Mniu of the magnet a velocity
vr in the opposite direction to the rotation, and to the element
of circuit As a velocity ak of the same magnitude and in the
same direction. The relative velocity between the two ele
ments will not be thereby modified. The element of the
magnet Mrdu enters thus into rest, and As moves within the
resultant of ag and ak. The resultant ah consequently repre
sents the magnitude and direction of the velocity which the
element of the circuit As receives in this manner. Since en
and ak are parallel, the angle oak =cmo = 90°— w. But the
angle oag being 90°, the angle kag ought consequently to be
 = w. The horizontal line ac is equal to Vl^ + ^ + ^Krcos v,
and the cosine of the angle eao or t' will consequently be equal
         R + rcosw           c.            r> j 7         i
    VR* + rx + 2RrcosK-. bince ag = vLl and ak or qh = vr.
to —,—-,
the resultant ah will be equal to i'VR4 + »^+2Rr cos u, and
the cosine of the angle hag will be equal to
                         v(R + r cos u)
                     v n/R* + r* + 2Rr cos u
But since these two angles are both acute they ought to have
the same magnitude. The line ag being at right angles to
the vertical plane which passes through the line oa, the re
sultant ah must also, for the reason that the angles named are
of equal magnitude, be perpendicular to the vertical plane
which passes through ac, and consequently also perpendicular
to the line uniting c to the element of circuit As. The dis
tance between Asand c is evidently = \/if2 + W + rs + 2Tircos«.
The element of the magnet Mrdu acts normally to the plane
which passes through this element, and the direction of motion
of the element of circuit ah. To obtain from this the effect
along the vertical element As, we must multiply by the cosine
of the angle which the normal mentioned makes with the ele
ment As : now this angle is equal to that which the latter

                     of Unipolar Induction.                   413
plane makes with the horizontal plane.        The cosine of this
angle is evidently equal to
                     VRa + r8T2Rrco8U
                    VH- + IV + r2 + 2Rr cos u
   The velocity of the element of circuit will be then
                     v\/Ri + r2 + 2Rr cos u;
the angle which the direction of movement makes with the
line of junction between the element of circuit and that of the
magnet will be 90°, and consequently its sine = 1 ; the dis
tance between the two elements will then amount to
                     VH2 + R2 + r2 + 2Rr cos u.
Lastly, the cosine of the angle between the vertical element
As and the normal to the plane passing through the direction
of movement and the element of the magnet will be
                       </R2 + r2 + 2Rr cosu
                     VH2 + R2 + r2 + 2Rrcosu
If now we introduce these values for -j, /9, and ifr into the
formula (6), drawn from the mechanical theory of heat, we
obtain for the inductive action of the element of the magnet
Mrefa, situated at c, upon the element of circuit As, when both
are in rotation in the same direction and with the same angular
 velocity, the following expression :—
                  Mrv(R2 + r2 + 2Rr cos m) Asefo
                   (H2 + R2 + r2 + 2Rrcosw)i
    Multiplying by 2 the integral between the limits 0 and it
 of this expression, we obtain the sum of the whole inductive
 action upon the element of circuit As of the magnets situated
 upon the periphery of the magnet. But
 C"=' (R2 + r2 + 2RrcosM)^ _ Cu="                     du
JB=0 (IF + W + r* + 2Rrcos«)*- Ja=,    0(H2+Ri     + r2 + 2RrcosM)4
                                                 du
                                   =0
                                Ju=0  (H2 + R2 + r2 + 2Rr cos u) i'
 If we remember that cos u= 1 — 2 sin2-, and if we put 5 = <f>}
                                          2                 £
 and, lastly,— 2\/Rr           = sin@, we obtain for the two
             [H^R+r)3]*

414              Prof. E. Edlund on the Theory
integrals of the right-hand member of the preceding equation,
            2        f»-r          #
    [H2 + (R + r)2] 0*-o (1 - sin2 0 sin2 <f>)i
                         2H2                    #
                   [H2 + (R + r)s]J,=, (1 - sin2 @ sin2 if,)'
The elliptical integral of this will be
                  F'(0)                  ^=              -E'(O). (7)
 [H2+(R + r)2]i      1 ;    [H2+(R + r)2ji|.H2+(R-r)2]
   3. We will take as example H = R=10r.        @ will then be
 25°-18, and the value of the formula (7) °     .  Multiplying
this expression by 2Mri'A«, we have the total induction of the
ring equal to 0*2214 MvAs.
   If the magnet were at rest, but As in rotation as before
with the angular velocity v, and if the magnetism of the pe
riphery were concentrated in the axis of the magnet, the
calculation of the magnitude of the induction would give the
following results :—The velocity of the element of the circuit
 would be t'R, the intensity of the magnetic pole would be
 27rrM, and the cosine of the angle which the plane passing
through the direction of motion and the pole makes with the
                            (R2 + H2)5 IQ virtue of formula v(6)
horizontal rplane would be ———==rr*.
 the induction would be
                          27n-MrR2As
                           (R2+H2)S "
    If, as we have supposed above, H = R=10r, we obtain, as
 the value of the induction in As, 02221 MvAs, a value which
 only differs from the former value by a little more than 0-3
 per cent.
    Let us take some other examples. Suppose that H = 0and
 R=10r. When the magnet and the element are in rotation
 in the same direction with the same angular velocity v,
 we obtain from formula (7) the magnitude of induction
  = 0"630 MrAs. If the magnet is at rest and the element As
 moves with the angular velocity i>, and if we suppose the
 magnetism concentrated in the axis of the magnet, the mag
 nitude of the induction will be equal to 0'628 Mi'As, expres
 sions which differ from one another by 0*25 percent. Let us
 suppose H = 0 and R=20/\ The elliptical integral gives in
 this case the value of the induction as equal to 03144 Mi-As.

                     of Unipolar Induction.                    415
If, on the contrary, the magnet is at rest and the magnetism
is concentrated in the axis of the magnet, the value of the
induction when As has the angular velocity v will be 0*3142
MrA* ; and these two values are almost identical.
   Let us put H = 2/- and R = 5r. When the magnet and the
element of the circuit are in common rotation, we obtain from
formula (7) the value of induction = 1*002 Mi*As; and when
the element of the circuit only is in rotation we obtain 1*004
MrAs. The difference is therefore about 0*2 per cent.
   For the case where the magnet is at rest and the element
alone is in rotation, we have supposed in our calculation that
all the magnetism of the ring is concentrated in the axis of
the magnet. In this manner, of course, a sufficiently exact
result is obtained only if the element As is at a sufficient dis
tance from the surface of the magnet, as was the caso in the
preceding examples. But we must not forget that all the
magnetism of the magnet is not found upon its surface ; but
that the subjacent layers, of which the distance from the axis
is only a fraction of r, are also magnetic, although their dis
tance from As is greater than that of the superficial layer.
The mode of calculation employed, which may of course also
be applied to the subjacent layers, consequently gives a more
exact result for the magnet as a whole than for the superficial
layers.
   4. Let us now suppose the element As situated at the sur
face of the magnet so that r = R ; and let us further suppose
that H also is equal to r. When the element is in rotation
with the same angular velocity and in the same direction as
the magnet, we obtain, by employing formula (7), l,(J2b' HrAs
for the value of the induction.
   Let us suppose, finally, that the element As is situated within
the magnetic ring at the distance £ from the axis of the
magnet ; that the magnet and the element are in rotation in
the same direction with the same angular velocity ; and that
H=r.
   In conformity with formula (7) the induction will now be
1*038 MuAs.
                                § 6.
   The old theory supposes that a magnet in rotation about its
axis produces an induction in an element of circuit at rest and
at a distance the same as if the magnet were at rest, but the
element rotated in the opposite direction but with an equal
angular velocity. We will now examine if this result con
forms to the requirements of the mechanical theory of heat.
   1. Suppose the vertical element of the circuit at rest and

416               Prof. E. Edlund on the Theory
situated in the same horizontal plane as the pole. The sine
of the angle which the direction of motion makes with the
line of junction between the element of the magnet and the
element of the circuit (the angle designated by 0 in the for
mula (6)) will bo in this case (fig. 4) equal to cos t=(u — t?)
            cosu(R + r cos u)                 rsin'^w
       ~ VR2 + r2 + 2Rrcosw + VR2 + >'2 + 2Rr cos w
Consequently sin /3
                                 R cos u + r
                           VR2 + »,2 + 2Rrcos u
   The angle denoted by yfr in the formula (6) is equal to zero,
and its cosine is equal to 1. The inductive action of the
element of the magnet Mrcfo situated at the point c upon the
element of circuit As at rest will be then
                       M?'2i'(R cos u + r)Asdu
                        (R24-r2 + 2Rrcosw)^
   If we multiply by 2 the integral of this expression between
the limits zero and 7r, we shall have the value of the induction
which the sum of the elementary poles situated in the peri
phery of the magnet is able to produce by the rotation of the
magnet round its axis in the element at rest As.
             Cu=* (R cos u +r)du
   2Mr2rAs
            «/v=o (R2
                   1    + r2 + 2Rrcosw)*
                 TV    J.-,          (R2 + r2 + 2R>-cosw>*
 Putting in this expression 1—2 sin2         in place of cos u, and <f>
instead of      and lastly sin ® for            , we have
             a                           ix + r
      [rvAs T«=i
    2Mrt'As  f«=i            <ty
     &+r             v'l-sini!88in20
                     2MrrAs. (r-R) f*=*             _d$_
                         (R + r)2     Jf=0 (l-sin20sin2^)i'
from which we obtain the elliptical integral
              2rM,As[Ei-rF'(©) + -lllE'(0)].                .  .  (8)
   2. If we suppose that the element of the circuit only is in

                      of Unipolar Induction.                    417
rotation whilst the magnet is at rest, the effect of the magnet
situated at c upon the element of the circuit As will be
                     MrRc(R + r cos u) Asrfit
                      (R4 + r8+2Rrcos u)i '
which will give therefore for the whole of the ring,
                  2MrrAs f' (R* + *-Rco8M)rfu
                         J, (R' + r* + 2RrcosH)*
    The function under the sign of the integration becomes
equal to that of the preceding case if wo replace r by R, and
R b}' r. The elliptic integrals would then also become equal
in consequence of this modification. The value of the total
induction will then be from that time
               2M™As{^F'(8)+!^;E'(0)}. . . (9)
    3. Let us suppose that R=10r. For the case when the
magnet is in rotation and A* at rest, the induction will be,
according to formula (8), = — O00316'Mi'As. If, on the con
 trary, it is tbe magnet which is at rest, whilst As is in rotation,
 the magnitude of the induction will be, according to formula
 (9), equal to 0-6331 MrAs. The first of these values is only
 about 0"5 per cent, from the second.
    Let us suppose that R=20r. If it is the magnet that is in
 rotation whilst As is at rest, we shall have, from formula (8),
 a value of induction equal to — O0004 Mi'As. In conformity
 with formula (9), the induction will amount to 0"3148Mi'As.
 For the case when the magnet is at rest and As in rotation,
 the first of these values is not quite 0-13 per cent, of the
 second.
    Let us suppose, lastly, that R = 2r. Then the induction
 will be, according to formula (8), —0*5416 MuAs ; and ac
 cording to formula (9) it would amount to 3'9132 MrAs. The
 first of these numbers gives nearly 13'8 per cent, of the second.
    The result of the preceding investigation is that the values
per cent, increase in proportion as the distance between As and
the axis of the magnet diminishes ; and that in the last case,
where R=2r, the value per cent, has become considerable. We
 must, however, remember that in the preceding calculations
we have only taken into consideration the magnetism of the
external layer of tbe magnet. But the magnet is equally
magnetic in the layers at a shorter distance from the axis,
and the inductive power of these layers may be calculated in
 a similar manner as the effect of the layer limited by the cir
cumference of the magnet. As the values per cent, will

 418               Prof. E. Edlund on the Theory
 become lower for the interior layers than for the exterior ones,
 it is evident that this will also be the case for the total effect
 of the magnet.
    4. It has been supposed above that the element of the cir
 cuit at rest As was at a distance, greater or less, outside of
 the exterior layer of the magnet in rotation ; and it has been
 shown at the same time that the induction of this element was
 in general very feeble. We will now suppose that the vertical
 element of the circuit is in the axis of the magnet and in the
 same horizontal plane as the pole.
    The distance between the elementary pole Mr<fw situated at
 c and the element of the circuit As is then equal to r. The
 angle /3 is evidently a right angle, and i/r is equal to zero. In
 virtue of formula (6), the induction of the element of the
 magnet will consequently be equal to —.—^—— when the
 magnet is in rotation with the angular velocity v ; and as this
 expression is equal for all values of the angle u, the induction
 of the whole layer will be equal to 6*2832 Mi'As. This value
is the same as that we obtain when the element As is in rota
 tion at a distance r round a magnetic pole of which the inten
sity is equal to that of the exterior of the magnet, and is
consequently 27rrM.
    5. It is easy to explain in an elementary way why, when
the element is outside of the external layer, the induction
becomes so feeble in comparison with that produced when the
element is situated in the axis of the ring.
    Let the circle dpfmg (fig. 5)                    Fig. 5.
represent the horizontal plane in
which one of the poles of the ver
tical magnet is situated, and let us
suppose that the element As at rest
is placed at the point a. The magnet
is in rotation in the direction indi
cated by the arrow. An elementary
magnet at m moves then in the di
rection ink, and the angle which this
direction of motion makes with the
line of junction between m and a
(the angle /3 of the formula 6) is a
right angle. When the elementary
magnet reaches g the angle in ques
tion is acute, and it becomes zero at
d, from which point a line drawn to
a is a tangent to the circle. Sin 6

                      of Unipolar Induction.                   419
consequently changes its sign at d, and it retains this change
of sign until it comes to /. It follows from this that the ele
mentary magnets upon the arc dp/ produce an induction of
opposite sense to those upon the arc fmgd. If these con
trary inductions become of equal value, no induction will be
produced in the element of circuit at rest A*. It is moreover
clear that if the element As were situated at a vertical dis
tance H above or below the horizontal plane in question, the
induction would change its sign when the elementary magnet
passed the points d and /. If, on the contrary, the element
of the circuit is situated at the centre o of the circle, the in
ductions of all the elementary magnets would act in the same
direction, and the result would consequently be equal to their
arithmetical sum.
   6. In the preceding explanation we have taken into consi
deration only the induction of the elementary magnets upon
the periphery of the magnet. But it is evident that the same
deductions are equally applicable to each ring of elementary
magnets of which the radius is less than the radius of the
magnet. The difference is this : that, in consequence of the
 rotation of the magnet on its own axis, the induction produced
by these rings or layers in an element of the circuit situated
 at a distance is less than the effect of the ring or layer of ele
 mentary magnets at the periphery of the magnet. In the
 same way no account has been taken of the one pole of the
 magnet ; but it is evident that the same proof applies equally
 to the second. It follows, therefore, that the preceding de
 monstration applies to the whole magnet.
                                §7.
    1. The experimental result given under No. 3 of § 2 is,
as already mentioned, explained on the old theory by the
 supposition that an electromotive force is produced in the
jacket of the same magnitude as if the magnet were at rest
 but the jacket in rotation in the opposite direction with the
same angular velocity, and that an electromotive force of
equal magnitude was produced in the metallic wire. Where
 these two forces of equal magnitude neutralized each other,
 the intensity of the current is equal to zero. According to
 the requirements of the mechanical theory of heat, this ex
 planation is erroneous. It is true that the rotation of the
 magnet causes the production of an electromotive force in the
 jacket at rest ; but, as we have seen, this forco is very small.
 It produces in the same way a feeble electromotive force in
 the metallic wire. These two forces are opposed, but they

 420              Prof. E. Edland on the Theory
are not of equal magnitude. They are in any case so small
that it would be impossible for them to produce an appreci
able current, even if* they acted in the same direction.
    2. In experiment No. 4 of § 2, the jacket and the metallic
wire were in rotation with the same angular velocity. As
it would be impossible to use a galvanometer to measure the
current, recourse was had to chemical tests to show the exist
ence of a current. It is easy to deduce the results of formula
 (6) mentioned above, drawn from the
mechanical theory of heat. Let sn                    Fig. 6.
(fig. C) represent a vertical magnet, of
which the poles are situated at * and n,
and let a b be a concentric jacket en
circling the magnet, and put in contact
at the points a and b with the metallic
wire ahegb. We will suppose now
that the jacket a b and the wire ahegb
are put into rotation round the axis of
the magnet, so that each part of the
circuit formed moves with the same
angular velocity v. The lines s e and
s h denote two planes passing through
the magnetic pole, and through the
direction of motion of the two points e
and h. We will suppose the angle
fse between the two planes to be very
small. If the distance from s to e is
denoted by the velocity of the point, e
would be denoted by pvrt where p is a constant. The length
of the normal e/ drawn to the plane s h is equal to rjsin (fse).
The element of the circuit eh ( = As of formula 6) multiplied
by cos (/eh) (= cos ijr of formula 6) is equal to e/=rlm\(/«<>).
If the closed circuit seen from above is in rotation in a direction
opposite to that of the hands of a watch, and if « is the south
 polo, there is produced in e h an electromotive force tending
to produce a current in the direction of the arrow. Sine $
of formula (6) is equal to unity, since the direction of motion
makes a right angle with the line joining the element to the
pole. If we denote by M the intensity of the magnetic pole,
                        M
and consequently by - 8 the intensity of the magnetic field at
the point e, we shall obtain from formula ((>), for the induction
in the element of circuit e h, the expression

                      of Unipolar Induction.                 421
                   pr1vrx sin {fse) = Mpv sin (f*e) .
It is of course the same for the clement of circuit dk, situated
between two planes, making the same angle with each other
and with the horizontal plane as those just mentioned passing
through the pole, and the direction of motion of the points d
and k.
   The induction in this element of the circuit will conse
quently be also Mpv sin (fse), and its effect will be upwards
in the direction of the arrow. But, since these conditions
are applicable to all the positions which these planes can take,
it follows that the electromotive force produced in a part of
the closed circuit is equal to the force which is produced in
the rest of the circuit. As these two forces neutralize each
other, there can be no current produced in this case.
   3. We will now suppose that the jacket is removed, and
that the ends of the metallic wire ahegb are in contact, one
writh one of the poles, and the other with the centre of the
magnet. If now the wire is in rotation with the magnet
round the axis of the latter, it evidently follows from the pre
ceding that in this cnse also no current can be produced.
When the magnet is in rotation round its axis it produces,
according to 4 of § 5, an electromotive force at each of the
points which receive a motion of translation, and in con
formity with 4 of § 6, a like force is produced in the axis
itself, although it does not receive any motion of translation,
but simply one of rotation. The sum of these forces is equal
to that which would be produced in a jacket in rotation round
the magnet. As experiment shows, no current can therefore
be produced in a closed circuit.
   If, on the contrary, the magnet is at rest whilst the metallic
wire only is in rotation, no electromotive force will of course
be produced in the magnet, and consequently the electro
motive forces produced in the metallic wire may in this case
give rise to a current.
   4. I have had occasion to verify, in the preceding work,
formula 6, given above, by a great number of experiments on
 unipolar induction, and I have always been able to observe
 that it furnishes a true explanation. I therefore consider it
 superfluous to submit it to new experiments of verification.
 We are, moreover, entitled to affirm that the formula in
question ought to give a correct result, since it is an imme
 diate consequence of the mechanical theory of heat.

422                    Mr. J. 0. McConnel on the
                                      §8.
    Several physicists * have recently undertaken the defence of
the old theory on the nature of unipolar induction against the
objections which I have brought against it. I shall therefore
conclude this memoir by calling the attention of the reader
to the following results of the above-described researches.
    The assertion of the old theory that a magnet is incapable of
producing induction in a conductor with which it is fixedly
united is in opposition to the requirements of the mechanical
theory of heat, and cannot therefore be sustained.
    The old theory supposes that a magnet in rotation about
its axis produces in a conductor at rest placed at a distance,
an induction of the same magnitude as if the conductor were
in rotation with the same angular velocity in the opposite
direction round the magnet at rest.
    This method of regarding it is in opposition to the me
chanical theory of heat, and must therefore be erroneous; the
induction produced in the conductor at rest when the magnet
is in rotation amounts generally only to an insignificant frac
tion of the induction due to the rotation of the conductor with
the same velocity round the magnet at rest.
    If a magnet and a conductor at some distance are in rota
tion in the same direction, with the same angular velocity
round the axis of tho former, according to the old theory no
induction should be produced in the conductor. But tlus is
also in opposition to the mechanical theory of heat, which
shows us that the induction in the conductor is of nearly equal
amount, whether the magnet is in rotation or whether it is
not. The rotation of the magnet is in fact without sensible
effect upon the magnitude of the induction.
            LIV. On the Cause of Iridescence in Clouds.
                   By James C. McConnel, M.A.-f
IN a recent number of this Magazine}, Dr. Johnstone Stoney
       has suggested an explanation of the iridescent hues
 sometimes seen tinging the edges and thinner portions of the
clouds. During my residence last winter in the Engadine, I
    • Hoppe, Wied. Ann. t. xxviii. p. 478 ; t. xxix. p. 644. F. Exner,
 Sitzungsber. der Kais. Akad. der Wiss. in Wien, 8 Juli 1880. For the
 refutation of these articles see Edlund, Wiedemann's Annalen, t. xxix.
 p. 420, t. xxx. p. C56 ; Sitzunffsber. der K. Akad. der Wissensch. in Wien,
 13 Januar 1887.
    t Communicated by the Author.
    j Phil. Mng. July 1887, p. 87 ; Trans. Roy. Dublin. Soc Feb. 16 and
March 23, 1887.

                 Cause of Iridescence in Clouds.            423
was greatly struck both by the splendour and the frequency
of this phenomenon, and I availed myself of the opportunity
of watching the general character of the display, and securing
a number of measurements of the angular distances of the
various colours from the sun. I was thus led to an explana
tion totally different to that advanced by Dr. Stoney. He
considers that we have here an example of the colours of thin
plates, while I believe the colours to originate in diffraction
by fine filaments of ice. Spider-threads, streaming from the
trees in full sunshine, often glow with most brilliant hues.
Replace the spider-threads by similar filaments of ice, in
crease their number to billions, carry them to the distance of
a mile, and we should, under favourable circumstances, have
a cloud shining with all the colours of the spectrum.
    In the following paper I shall compare the results of each
theory with my observations, and show that, in the light of
 this fuller series of facts, the theory of thin plates proves
unsatisfactory, while diffraction appears competent to explain
the whole of the phenomena. It may be that there are other
 kinds of iridescence, which I have not been fortunate enough
 to witness, and for which the theory of diffraction fails. But
 even so, 1 shall have done good service in this inquiry by
 pointing out both the province and the limitations of diffrac
 tion. Before discussing the two theories, I will give an
 account of the phenomena I have observed, so that my
 readers may understand precisely what the appearances are
 that I shall attempt to explain.
    During the winter in the Engadine, the colours are fre
 quently brilliant enough to attract the notice of the most
 indifferent, and on almost any day, when there are broken
 clouds near the sun, they can be made out with the aid of
 dark grey spectacles. The action of the spectacles depends
 on the physiological fact, that in intense light the eye loses,
 to a considerable extent, its power of distinguishing colour.
    Within a circle round the sun, radius about 2°, the clouds
 are white, or faintly tinged with blue. This circular space is
 surrounded by a ring of yellow, passing into orange. The
 region of most vivid hues is comprised between 3° and 7°,
 the most striking being purple, blue, orange, green, and red.
 These are generally scattered at random over the thinner
 parts of the clouds. Further out, the only colours visible are
 green and pink, becoming rapidly fainter with increasing
 distance. These greens and pinks are often arranged in
 bands parallel to the edge of a cloud, sometimes as many as
 three bands of each being visible. Broad alternate bands of
  colour are easy to detect, even when very faint, and after
  some practice I have thus distinguished colour as far from the

 424                Mr. J. C. McConnel on the
 sun as 23°. For this purpose I have found the naked eye
 most efficient in winter, though not in summer.
    It is thus obvious that the distribution of colour depends
 mainly on the distance from the sun when that distance is
 small, the colours being arranged in circles. But further out
it depends more on the variation of some property of the cloud,
 since the colours follow its edge. In both theories this pro
perty is the average size of the particles, which is no doubt
generally greater in the interior of a cloud. So far we have but
little evidence as to the proper order of the colours. But along
the edge of a large cloud we may expect the particles to be
of tolerably uniform size, and the disturbing element to be
thereby removed. On one occasion, when such an edge
passed almost through the sun, I noted down the colours in
order : white, yellow, red ; blue, green, yellow, pink ; green,
pink. This list consists evidently of three successive spectra
similar to those seen in Newton's rings or in various diffrac
tion experiments. Its accuracy was fully borne out by a
number of similar observations. The blue, however, is often
replaced by a brilliant purple, due to the first and second
spectra overlapping.
   We may now, I think, fairly conclude that, if the sky were
overspread by a thin cloud of particles of uniform size, and
the eye were not troubled by the glare, we should see a series
of coloured rings—blue, white, yellow, red ; blue, green,
yellow, pink; green, pink; green, pink; &c. The nearest
approach to this in my experience was in April .it Bern.
With the aid of dark spectacles, I saw nearly complete circles
of yellow, orange, red, purple, and green.
   In the summer I have rarely seen colour with the unaided
eye, and even with spectacles the iridescence, though seldom
absent, is generally insignificant. The most vivid effects are
given by unmistakable ice-clouds, while unmistakable water-
clouds often show no effects at all. In the high altitudes,
in which I have been living since I began to pay special
attention to these appearances, the majority of the clouds are
no doubt ice ; and for some time I was uncertain whether the
colours were ever shown by clouds composed entirely of
water. However, one warm day in June, these doubts were
set at rest. I was standing on a high ridge, the temperature
perhaps being 60° Fahr., when some thin clouds came drift
ing over, perhaps a hundred feet above my head ; I put on
dark spectacles, and immediately circles of colour appeared—
yellow, orange, red, faint green, in order outwards. Un
luckily I took no measures, but the colours were about the
usual distance from the sun. On another occasion, with similar

                   Cause of Iridescence in Clouds.           425
clouds, I found the boundary between red and green to be
about 6° from the sun.
   The peculiar brilliance of the effects during the Engadine
winter is, no doubt, partially due to a subjective cause. The
eye, continually exposed to the reflexion from the snow,
accomodates itself to the intense light, and is better fitted to
deal with the bright glare near the sun. Some eyes, perhaps,
have not this power of adaptation, for, even at St. Moritz iu
the winter, some persons are quite unable, without glasses, to
see the colours. The near proximity also of the ice-clouds
adds greatly to the display, for, though the brightness is not
increased, each colour is spread over a larger portion of the
sky, and thereby rendered much more effective.
   Having now put the reader in possession of -the facts to be
explained, I will give my reasons for thinking Dr. Stoney's
explanation untenable in the face of these facts. In the first
place, it does not apply to the very similar phenomena seen in
water-clouds, so that in this case, at any rate, he would have
to resort to diffraction. Secondly, though it gives the colours
in their proper order, it leads to a hopelessly exaggerated
idea of scale.
   Let (f> be the angle of incidence on the plate of ice,
                „     „      refraction,
       ¦iff the angular distance of the cloud from the sun.
   Then we have
                        sin <f>=fJ- sin <p'
where n is the order of the spectrum and t the thickness of
the plate. Let us suppose the sky to be covered with a thin
cloud, composed of plates of such thickness as to give the
blue of any order at ^ = 5°; then taking n=V3, and the
wave-length of red light half as great again as that of blue,
we find for the red of the same order yfr = l'66°. And this is
neglecting the variation of fi with \, so that really yfr would
be greater still. Thus a single spectrum would be spread
over almost the whole expanse of the sky. It is needless to
say that this is utterly at variance with the facts I have
described.
   Thirdly, the brightness of the colours does not fall off in
the theory of thin plates nearly as rapidly as we find in
observation.
  As the plate is inclined at different angles to the sun, the
quantity of light reflected passes through a series of maxima,
  Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 24. No. 150. Nov. 1887.          2F

426                Mr. J. C. McConnel on tlie
alternating with vanishing-points. But for the present let us
make abstraction of these variations. Let 2y=i/r, so that 7
is the complement of the angle of incidence of the light from
the centre of the solar disc, and let q be the area of the plate,
A the intensity of sun-light, and a> the angular area of the
sun. The light that falls on the plate is qaa 7. A. This
light is distributed over an area r^co near the observer, at the
distance r from the plate. Hence the intensity due to one
plate at that distance is q sin 7 . A/>sco. If there are n suit
able plates within the area to, the brightness of the cloud is,
in terms of that of the sun, nq sin y/raa>. We proceed to
investigate the value of n.
   With the aid of a little spherical trigonometry, we may
show that every plate will reflect light to the eye, whose
normal lies within an angular space of approximate area
<u/4 sin 7. Now we assume for simplicity that the plates are
arranged at random, so out of the whole number a fraction,
fij/oV sin 7, will send light to the eye. For it must be re
membered that each face is competent to reflect. The average
apparent area of a plate is q/2 ; so, if the plates occupy a
fraction a of the field of view, the whole number in the area
to is 2wrs«/(7, and the number in position to reflect light to
the eye is n=ay'r>a/4irqsmy. Hence the brightness of the
cloud is cou/iv that of the sun. Inserting numerical values
we have
                             ¦0000045«                        (1)
   We must now take into account the varying intensity of
the reflected light according to the angle of incidence. It is
only with the maxima that we are concerned. At each
maximum we have for this intensity
                               Ah*
where 6* is the proportion of light reflected from a single
surface, and the intensity of the incident light is unity. By
Fresnel's laws, which are sufficiently accurate for our present
purpose,
                      sin* (£-£) tan»              )
                      sin2   +     ^ tan* (0 + <*>')' ' " * K )
From these formulae I have calculated the following table :—
                             Table I.
      When^= 0° <£ = 90° 6»=1                 and 1=1
              Vr=20° £=80° 6s = -327            „ 1= -76
              ¦f='60° <f>=75° b*= -20           „ 1= -56
         5)   ^-=50° <£ = 65° 6*= -08           „ 1= -275

                  Cause of Iridescence in Clouds.            427
   In discussing the variation of intensity with distance, we
have merely to consider the march of the function I, since
the factor (1) is constant. And it appears from the table
that, even at 30° from the sun, the intensity has more than
half its maximum value. Now it is matter of common obser
vation, that a thin cloud near the sun glows with an intensely
bright white light, due probably to irregular diffraction.
This white light diminishes rapidly with increasing distance.
Hence, on this theory, so far from expecting the brilliance to
fall off rapidly from 5° outwards, we might reasonably look
for the most obvious colour-effects at 20° or 30°. But we
should look in vain.
   The utmost distance at which I have detected the faintest
trace of colour is 23°, and this limit is not approached on one
day in twenty.
   It is now, I think, clear that Dr. Stoney's is not the true
explanation of the whole, or even of the most striking part of
the phenomena I have described. Whether it accounts for
any part, is a question which can be more satisfactorily dis
cussed after I have set forth my own theory in fuller detail.
   One essential feature in any theory is that the colour of
the light sent by the particles should depend on their size
only, and not on their orientation. The only form of diffrac
ting particle which satisfies this condition accurately is the
sphere. But the long circular cylinder and forms similar
thereto, such as the long hexagonal prism, are sufficiently
satisfactory for practical purposes. The sphere of course
diffracts light in the same way, however it be turned. The
prism, on the contrary, to send light at all, must deviate
but slightly from the "reflecting plane," but within this
plane it can be turned between wide limits without materially
affecting the quality of its light. (By the reflecting plane is
meant the plane in which a small mirror must lie so as to
reflect sunlight to the observer.)
   Let us examine this very important point more closely. If
the axis of the prism or filament lie in the reflecting plane,
the light from all points of the axis takes equal time from the
sun to the eye. So, as far as relative retardation is concerned,
we may consider all points on a line parallel to the axis as
equivalent. We may with sufficient accuracy replace our
filament by a long narrow plate, whose plane passes through
the axis and is inclined at the greatest possible angle to the
sun's rays. This plate, in turn, may by Babinet's principle
be replaced by an equal and similarly situated slit in an
infinite opaque screen. As all points in a line parallel to the
axis are equivalent, we need only consider the trace on the
                             2F 2

428                 Mr. J. C. McOonnel on the
plane of diffraction, i. e. the plane through the sun and the
eye. The breadth of the representative plate or slit, measured
on this plane, determines the diffraction of the various spectra,
and is the greatest breadth of the section of the filament
 measured across the sun's rays.
    In fig. 1 is given the case of a hexagonal filament, whose
                                 Fig 1:
   E
 minor diameter is perpendicular to the "reflecting plane,"
 when the angle of diffraction is 10° ; first when the axis is at
 right angles to the plane of diffraction, and secondly when it
 is inclined at only 20° to that plane.
    AS,BS are drawn towards the sun, AE towards the
 observer, and AB is the breadth of the representative slit. It
 will be noticed how slightly AB is altered even by this ex
 treme inclination. If the major diameter had been perpen
 dicular to the reflecting plane, there would have been no
 alteration. The difference between the major and minor
 diameters themselves is of somewhat more importance, but
 each differs by only about 7 per cent, from the mean.
    Among the numerous crystalline forms met with in falling
 snow, and therefore presumably in the clouds, there is none
 approaching to a sphere. But thin hexagonal filaments are
 common, either separate, or forming part of more elaborate
structures ; so it is these which we must regard as the
" active principle " in the coloured clouds. Let us then
consider the spectacle to be expected in a sky covered with
thin clouds composed of filaments of one uniform diameter a.
The following table, deduced from figures quoted by Verdet*,
             • Leeons (TOptiqw Physique, tome i. §§ 69, 77.

                   Cause of Iridescence in Clouds.             429
gives the angular distance and relative brightness of the
first four maxima for wave-length X.
                             Table II.
     Order of Spectrum.      Angular Distance.     Brightness.
             1                   1-43 X/a             1
             2                   2-46 X/a               '37
             3                   3-47 X/a               '185
             4                   4-48 X/a               -109
             9                   9-50 X/a               -024
   For the sake of comparison I give the corresponding figures
for spheres of diameter D.
             1                   1-64 \/D             1
             2                   2-67 \/D               -24
             3                   3-69 X/D               -095
             4                   4-72 X/D               -045
   Though the first ring is rather further out, the succeeding
intervals are much the same, but the intensity falls off much
more rapidly.
   To return to the filaments, (1) if the first red were at 4°
from the sun, the second and third would be at 7° and 9|°.
Observation points to something of this kind. (2) In obser
vation we find the spectrum colours show themselves tolerably
distinct, in favourable cases, as far as the green of the second
order ; but outside this there is decided evidence of over
 lapping. And this is what we might expect from the theory,
 when we remember, on the one hand, that only the brighter
 parts of the spectrum need be considered, and, on the other,
 that there are three important causes of blurring—the finite
 diameter of the source of light, the spreading out of the
 diffracted light on either side of the maximum, and the want
 of uniformity among the particles, both as regards size, and,
 though of less importance, as regards orientation.
    It will be remarked that only a small proportion of the
 filaments are sufficiently near the " reflecting plane " to send
 diffracted light. And it might be concluded that the light
 sent would be very feeble. But this conclusion is by no
 means borne out by some rough calculations I have made,
 and which lead to the result that a cloud of ice filaments is
 but little inferior in diffracting power to a cloud of water
 drops. (This surprising result is chiefly due to the advantage
 a filament gains from its length. The following is a general
 explanation :—If a long filament and a sphere give equal
 diffraction to the first spectrum, the area of the filament must

430                   Mr. J. C. McConnel on the
 be many times greater than that of the sphere. But the
 intensity of diffracted light is proportional to the square of
 the area of the diffracting body. So the single filament sends
 more intense light than a number of spheres, which together
 occupy the same apparent area.) The steps of the calculation
 for the filaments may be indicated as follows :—
    The filament, by reflecting and refracting in different direc
 tions part of the light that falls upon it, and greatly retarding
 the remainder, behaves in diffraction like an opaque body,
 and, by Babinef s principle, may be replaced by a similarly
 oriented slit in an opaque screen. If the axis of the slit lie
 in the " reflecting plane," light from every point of any line
 parallel to the axis will reach the retina in the same phase.
 The oblique slit will therefore diffract light in the same
 manner as a slit at right angles to the sun's rays, except that
 we have to take as effective area the projection of its area
 perpendicular to the sun's rays. But filaments lying within
 a small angle of the reflecting plane will also contribute light,
 and it may be shown that we get a fair approximation to the
 amount of the total light, by supposing all filaments, for which
 the retardation of one end of the axis relative to the other
 does not exceed 7r, to contribute the maximum light, and
 other filaments to contribute nothing*. Further it may be
 shown, with the aid of spherical trigonometry, that such fila
 ments must lie within an angle x=\/4b sin 7 on either side
 of the " reflecting plane," where b is the length of the fila
 ment, and 7 is half the angular distance from the sun. So of
 the whole number we may consider only the fraction X/4/>sin7
 to send light, for we suppose the filaments to lie at random
 in all directions.
    When the slit is perpendicular to the sun's rays, the
intensity of light at a distance r in the direction opposite the
   • Let .r denote the retardation of phase of any point in the axis rela
tive to the middle point for any given direction of diffraction, and R the
 value of x for one end. Then the amplitude in that direction is
                       f +R
                       I    cosi-rfx/2R= sinR/R,
                      J -K
that for R = 0 being taken as unity. If the whole of the light for positive
values of R be supposed compressed between the limits R=0, R = ^> tne
average value over this range is
                           C °° sin2 R „, . n
It is easy to verify by a rough numerical calculation that this last expres
sion is approximately equal to unity.

                     Cause of Iridescence in Clouds.                   431
sun is a*Z>s . A/XV by Stokes's formula*, and the intensity of
the first spectrum is then, according to Verdetf,
                              •046a»69.A/XV.
While, if the slit or filament be inclined to the sunlight at an
angle yS, the intensity is
                          •046 a?b* sin8/3 . A/XV.
By what we have just shown, we need only consider a frac
tion, viz. X/46siny, of the filaments to send light, and, since
the effectiveness of each is proportional to sin9/8, we must
diminish the final product in the ratio 2 : 1. (The correct
ratio is 2:l + sin47, but in our applications 7 is small.)
Hence the average filament sends fight of intensity
                            •046—-5. Attt—;— .
                                 XV       isb sin 7
    Now we want to compare the brightness of the cloud with
that of the sun. Let a> be the angular magnitude of the sun,
and let the filaments occupy a fraction a of the field of view.
The average apparent size of a filament is 7ra&/4. So, if n be
the number of filaments in the area a>, we have
                               ar3a) = mrab/i.
Hence the intensity of the light from the n filaments is
                            "023 aaa . A/X7T sin 7,
and the brightness of the cloud, in terms of that of the sun,
is
                             •023 acoa/Xw sin 7.
    Now for the first spectrum,
                              a/X= 1 '43/sin yjr,
where sfr is the angular distance from the sun, and so •»//¦= 27.
 So, inserting numerical values, the last expression takes the
 form
                                  ¦0041
 where 1^ is supposed to be less than 30°, and is expressed in
 degrees.
    In the same way we find for the second and fourth spectra
 the expressions
                                    •0026 */ip
                                    •0015«/ip.
   * Stokes, "On the Dynamical Theory of Diffraction," Trans. Camh.
 Phil. Soc. vol. ix. p. 1 ; or 'Math, and Phys. Papers,' vol. ii. p. 243; or
 Glazebrook, "On Optical Theories," B. A. Keport, 1885.
   t Loc. cit.

432                 Mr. J. C. McConnel on the
   (3) These figures exhibit a rapid diminution in brightness
 with increasing yjr, such as is found in observation, but is
 wanting in the theory of thin plates.
   For the brightness of the first spectrum at 5° we obtain the
 value
                            •000164 «,
and at the same distance for a cloud of thin plates,
                            •0000045 a.
   Though the ice-crystals which fall as snow give us some
clue to the forms of those suspended in the clouds, we are
ignorant, at any rate, as to which is there the predominating
form. But, if we assume that plates and filaments occupy
nearly the same fraction of the field of view, these figures
show that the colours due to the filaments must far outweigh
the others in the near neighbourhood of the sun. So we are
in a position, not merely to declare that the observed facts
about the brighter colours are inconsistent with the hypothesis
of thin plates, but also to show cause why ice-laminae should
not produce these brighter colours.
   Granting, however, that thin plates are not the principal,
they might still be a subsidiary cause. Though incompetent
to produce the bright colours near the sun, they might yet
give rise to the faint tints at a distance. But I do not think
this probable. On days when the colours are visible unusually
far out, I have generally noticed several cases all at about the
same distance, e. ff. on one day 21°, 18£°, 21°, 21°, 19°, on
another 20°, 20°, 22^°. This points to a rapid falling-off
of intensity with distance, and therefore to the hypothesis of
diffraction. Some slight additional evidence may be drawn
from the figures given below. I have thought it probable
that the colours at 20° belonged to the fourth spectrum. On
this assumption, for ^r=20° the brightness is "0000037a,
while for any spectrum on the hypothesis of thin plates it is
¦0000017a.
   The average diameter of the filaments that produce the
brighter colours I find to be about "013 millim. It might be
thought the chief cause of the brighter tints appearing at
about 5° was, that at this angle the colours escape, on the
one hand, the overpowering white glare which suffuses clouds
in the neighbourhood of the solar disc, and, on the other, the
enfeebling influence of greater distance. But I cannot hold
this view. There is one characteristic colour, which always
occurs at the boundary between the first two spectra, I mean

                  Cause of Iridescence in Clouds.             433
purple. Out of some thirty or forty measurements of this
colour, taken at various times and places, I have never found
a case within 3°, or without 7°. The first gives a diameter
¦019 millim., the second "0085 millim. So, whatever may be
the cause, we are driven to conclude that filaments outside
these limits are not found in the clouds in sufficient numbers
and with sufficient uniformity of size to produce the brighter
iridescences. (Coronae, mentioned below, are seen in quite a
different type of cloud. The colours form regular circles,
and are of a different character, being dull and blurred.)
   Dr. Stoney's description of the phenomena agrees, as far as
it goes, fairly well with mine, though I have not noticed that
iridescence is more frequent when the sun is low. Indeed,
it has seemed to me to be less frequent, owing to the greater
thickness of the cloud-layer, measured in the direction of the
sun. But near the horizon the colours, of course, are more
likely to catch the eye.
   If he is correct in supposing that the laminae would generally
be but slightly inclined to the horizontal, the thin-plate colours
would be seen only above and below the sun, and not at either
side. I have never seen any sign of such a tendency.
   He says :—" Some few times in one's life the display may
be seen in all quarters of the sky, and with the sun well up
in the heavens." If the phrase " in all quarters of the sky "
is to be taken literally, the phenomenon is quite different from
anything 1 have seen, and can, indeed, be scarcely explained
on my hypothesis.
   Another phenomenon, nearly related to iridescence, is that
of coronas. I have seen these in the winter at St. Moritz,
when the sky was covered with a white haze, gathered here
and there into more definite wisps. The colours were much
fainter, and were arranged in regular rings. I have distin
guished two complete spectra, the size of the rings pointing
to filaments about "04 millim. in diameter.
   Both corona? and iridescence are also produced by water-
drops, and I have calculated the brightness of the cloud in
this case also. The results for the first, second, and fourth
spectra are :—
                            •0071«/^s,
                            •004t)*/-fs,
                            ¦0027a/f«,
where ifr, as before, is expressed in degrees, and the unit of
brightness is that of the sun. These are only slightly greater
than the corresponding figures for ice-clouds, and the dif

434            On the Cause of Iridescence in Clouds.
ference is no doubt considerably more tban compensated by
tbe tendency of water-drops to coalesce and lose their uni
formity of size.
    Coronas, too, are sometimes seen in water-mists, surround
ing the point opposite the sun. In this case the expression
no longer contains the variable l/^f3, and for the first spectrum
has the value '000002a. Theory renders it highly improbable
that such coronas should ever be seen in ice-clouds. For we
have for the first spectrum the very small value "OOOOOOOla/iJr.
It is curious that the brightness increases with the size of the
ring. But even with such a large ring as •^• = 20°, the bright
ness is only one tenth of that for a water-cloud. The reason
is that comparatively few filaments are in a position to send
light in the required direction.
    Since the above was set up in type I have come across, in
a paper by Lord Kayleigh, a reference to a very important
proposition proved by Verdet*. This is to the effect that,
owing to the finite angular magnitude of the sun, we can
only consider an uniform plane wave of direct sunlight to
extend over a circle about 100 X in diameter. At points sepa
rated by a greater distance than this there is no permanent
relation of phase between the vibrations.
    Now the ice-filaments are no doubt often much longer than
100 X. So we must divide them into sections, each somewhat
shorter than 100 X, and treat each section as a separate fila
ment. This will make no difference to the result ; for, on
 referring to the argument above, it will be seen that the
 length b disappears in the course of the proof. It is true that
the light from each filament is diminished, the diffracted light
being proportional to the square of the area ; but, on the other
hand, a greater latitude of orientation is permissible.
    In the case of the corona? cited above, the thickness of the
filaments must have nearly reached the theoretical limit. And
it is at least probable that corona? of that size would be seen
in clouds in which the filaments were of very irregular thick
ness. Those of smaller diameter would be ineffective owing
to their weaker diffracting-power, while those of greater dia
meter would be incapacitated by being outside the theoretical
limit.
   • Tome i. § 28; and Strutt, "On Coronas," London Math. Soc. vol.iii.
No. 36.

                            [   435   ]
LV. On Peculiarities observed in Iron and Steel at a Bright-
   Bed Heat. By H. F. Newall, M.A., Demonstrator oj
   Kxperimental Physics, Cambridge University* .
IN the September number (p. 256) of the Philosophical
      Magazine, which I am sorry not to have seen till last
week (Oct. 6), there appears a paper by Mr. Herbert Tom-
linson on a " Remarkable Effect on raising Iron when under
Temporary Stress or Permanent Strain to a Bright-red
Heat." I have been engaged for some time past on experi
ments bearing on the subject of his paper, and as I hope
before long to be able to publish a full account of my experi
ments, I will not at present do more than put down a few
notes on such of the more definite results that I have obtained
as seem to throw light on the interesting phenomena recorded
in Mr. Tomlinson's paper.
   First I will describe what I observe as to Reglow or
Recalescence. A wire (about 1 mm. diam.) steel or iron, of
certain composition, is heated gradually by a strong current
or in the flame of a Bunsen burner ; it becomes luminous ;
the luminosity increases as the temperature rises, until a
certain point is reached, when in some cases it pauses in
its increase, in others it actually diminishes : this I will refer
to as the Darkening ; and then it increases again until the
wire melts. However, let the heating be stopped before
melting takes place and let the wire cool gradually, or,
rather, let it be placed in such circumstances as one would
naturally expect would promote gradual cooling : the lumi
nosity decreases until a certain point is reached, roughly
speaking about dull red heat, when it ceases to decrease and
in some cases only pauses, in others it actually increases :
this is spoken of as the Reglow ; and then it diminishes
again until the wire is no longer luminous.
   I am still working with a view to finding out to what
differences in composition are to be attributed the differences
observed in the effects just described. I am fortunate enough
to have enlisted the interest of Col. Dyer, of Lord Arm
strong's firm, and of Mr. Jenkins, of the Oonsett Iron Works,
and of Mr. Firth, of Sheffield, who have most kindly supplied
me with many specimens of steel of known composition.
After a great many experiments and observations,—many of
them merely careful repetitions and extensions of Gore's
results and of Barrett's, many of them, however, new,—I
                 * Communicated by the Author.

436         Mr. H. F. Newall on Peculiarities observed
 incline to regard the change going on in iron and steel at
 high temperatures as partaking of the nature of an explosion,
 in that once started it continues throughout the mass of the
iron, and is evidenced amongst other phenomena by the reglow.
 Until the " darkening " has taken place the iron is not in a
 state fit to explode, so to speak ; and hence it is necessary to
raise the iron above this temperature in order that reglow
may be possible. But before the iron can be raised above
 this temperature, heat must have passed into it in sufficient
quantity to separate the elements producing the explosion.
My evidence for this view of the matter I hope to publish
in full.
    Briefly, I have shown that reglow is not due to chemical
 action at the surface of the iron ; that it is not due to occlusion
of gases ; that it is not due to differences in conductivity in
 iron at different temperatures, as suggested by Forbes ; that
there is a rise of temperature not only at the surface, as has
been shown by Barrett, but also throughout the mass ; that
this rise of temperature will partly account for peculiarities—
(1) in the thermoelectric properties, observed by Tait ; (2) in
the electrical conductivity, observed by Smith, Knott, and
Macfarlane ; (3) in the thermal expansion, observed by Gore
and by Barrett ; (4) in the rigidity, observed by Toinlinson
and independently by myself ; (5) in the viscosity, observed
by myself, and probably by Barus and Strouhal, though I
cannot find mention of it ; (6) in the possibility of hardening,
observed by myself ; (7) in the return of magnetic properties,
recorded by many observers.
    My present aim is to find out the cause of this rise in
temperature ; and my belief is that it is an internal chemical
action ; and the question is, What is this action ? I hope to
clear the matter up by experimenting upon specimens of
known composition. So far as I have gone 1 have come
across very curious differences in the effects shown by
different chance specimens. In some specimens the reglow
takes place much more leisurely than in others ; sometimes
it is practically a flash, and at other times it is not perceptible
at all with the most careful observation. I reserve a detailed
account of my observations, and at present will only mention
in this connexion that I am not inclined to attribute any
important part in the phenomena to the appearance of mag
netic properties ; and I realize how, if my view of the cause
of reglow is correct, a difficult field for inquiry is opened out,
necessitating the production of evidence that the properties
of iron are different above and below the temperature of the
reglow phenomena, or, rather, that the temperature-coefficients

             in Iron and Steel at a Bright-Red Heat.       437
of the various physical properties suddenly change at that
critical temperature.
   I will now return to the subject of Mr. Tomlinson's
paper ; and as I have independently made observations on
similar points, I will give my view of the case, as applied to
Mr. Tomlinson's experiments. In Experiment I. a wire was
heated under torsional stress, and when a certain tempera
ture was reached the rigidity gave way somewhat suddenly
and the wire was permanently twisted. " The slight check in
the rate at which the wire was permanently twisting " is to
be attributed to a similar check in the rate of decrease of
rigidity at the " darkening." The wire was allowed to cool ;
the rigidity increases until the reglow takes place, and this
involves a sudden rise in temperature with corresponding
fall in rigidity, and the wire twists further.
   1 have been nonplussed by what appears to be an incon
sistency in the results recorded in Experiments I. and II.
In Experiment I. the stress produces permanent strain ; in
II. a very feeble stress (magnet deflected through 10°) pro
duces a permanent strain ; but an intermediate stress (magnet
deflected through 90°) is not stated to have produced anything
but a temporary effect at the higher temperature ; and this
effect—untwisting during the heating of the wire—is such as     '
to overcome the external stress, as if we had to deal with
some instability. I hesitate to .attempt an explanation of the
first part of Experiment II. ; the second part admits of an
attempt, suggesting further tests.
   In Experiment II. (second part), then, we have to deal with
the case of a wire under very feeble external stress without
permanent strain ; as the temperature rises there is a sudden
untwist, that is, the needle is deflected further from the
meridian, and also permanent twist ; and as the wire cools,
there is a sudden temporary twist at nearly the same tempera
ture. I think it possible to explain the untwist by attributing
it to a pause in the permanent twisting, resulting in a swing
of the magnet temporarily from the meridian ; the pause
being due to the fact that the " darkening " is taking place,
and with it a pause in the decrease of rigidity. It would be
interesting to repeat this experiment with a view to testing
how far all the movements of the needle actually represent
stresses in the wire.
   Experiments IV. and V. are of great interest as showing
both the effect of permanent stress (I leave out of the case
the magnetic effects observed), and the failure of a very
common method of annealing.
   With permanent torsional strain are introduced internal

438          On Iron and Steel at a Bright-Red Heat.
torsional stresses, which differ not only in magnitude but
even in direction in different annuli of the wire's section
when the external stress is removed ; that is to say, if we
regard the wire in this condition as divided into two parts,
a core and an enclosing tube or rind, we may choose the radios
of the core so that the internal stresses in the core are opposed
to those in the rind. If by any means we can weaken the
rigidity or elasticity in one part more quickly than that in the
other, it is clear that we should get the permanent strain
either increased or diminished accordingly. Here, then, we
have another way in which the results recorded in Mr.
Tomlinson's paper, " On the Effect of Change of Temperature
in Twisting or Untwisting Wires " (p. 253), may be regarded.
I will not dwell upon these, but will deal with Experiment IV.,
in which a wire permanently twisted is heated, and shows
twist in heating and untwist in cooling. We have then to
show that in heating the inner core is heated more quickly
than the outer rind, in which case the wire will untwist.
This case presents little difficulty, except in that at one point
during the heating the core may be cooler than the rind,
namely, if the wire shows " darkening/' with a fall of tem
perature. Next we have to show that at a point in the cooling
the outer rind can become hotter than the core. Now in
cooling, the rind reaches the temperature at which reglow
occurs before the core ; and so it is possible that the rind
may become considerably hotter than the core, its rigidity also
becoming less, and the wire therefore is untwisted. The
suddenness of the twist or untwist depends on the shortness
of the period (in both heating and cooling) during which the
rigidities of the core and rind differ markedly. At low
temperatures the rigidity apparently does not vary much with
temperature, or at least there is not much greater variation
of rigidity in the permanently strained rind than in the core,
and the internal couples are almost balanced. But at a certain
temperature the rigidity suddenly falls, as is shown by
Experiment I., and the balance of couples in the unequally
 heated wire is destroyed until the wire is heated so much
above this critical temperature that an approximate balance
of weaker couples is again established. If the temperature
of the wire is kept at about a dull red heat (as seen from
 outside), it is possible to keep the balance of couples so
far disturbed as to get nearly all the permanent twist out of
the wire.
   The explanation above suggested is based on (1) the fact
that the reglow is connected with a rise of temperature—this

       On " Random Scattering " of Points on a Surface.         439
is established by my own experiments ; (2) the fact that
there is a sudden fall in rigidity at a temperature about red
heat—this is established by Mr. Tomlinson's Experiment I.
as well as by similar experiments of my own ; (3) the
assumption ( ? fact) that a wire of even 1 mm. diam. is not
heated uniformly throughout its thickness, but that the inner
part is hotter than the parts near the surface ; and lastly
that the rigidity of the iron at the high temperature of
reglow is less than the rigidity of iron at not so high a
temperature before reglow.
    A similar line of argument will explain the results recorded
in Experiments VI. and VII.
    I have made a great number of experiments on the return
 of magnetic properties in cooling iron ; and can at present
 only say with certainty that the matter is not so simple as
 appears from Experiment IV. of Mr. Tomlinson's paper.
 The relation between the reglow and return of magnetic
 froperties varies with the specimens of iron and steel used,
    have found some few specimens in which the reglow takes
 place in the middle of the return of magnetic properties, so
 that the galvanometer indication is hvo kicks, the first very
 small, just before reglow, the second and main kick after
 reglow, as if the metal was becoming magnetic, when the
 rise of temperature, coincident with reglow, caused it to pause
 for an instant. In general, however, the reglow precedes the
 return of magnetic properties, though by intervals which
 vary with the specimens observed. I hope to have more
 definite results when I have tested the numerous specimens of
 steel and iron which I have now in my possession.
 LVI. On "Random Scattering " of Points on a Surface. By
     Joseph Kleiber, Privat-Docent in the Imperial Univer
     sity of St. Petersburg*
  IN a paper published in the Philosophical Magazine [ser. 3],
        vol. xxxvii. pp. 401-427 f, Prof. Forbes set forth some
  objections against the application of the principles of the
 mathematical theory of probabilities to the question of the
  distribution of stars in the sky. Mr. Todhunter quotes this
  paper in his well-known ' History of the Theory of Probabi-
    * Communicated by the Author.
    f " On the Alleged Evidence for a Physical Connexion between Stars
  forming Binary or Multiple Groups, deduced from the Doctrine of
  Chances."
                           «

440           J. Kleiber on " Random Scattering "
lities,' agreeing apparently with the views of its author.
He writes :—
    " The late Prof. Forbes wrote a very interesting criticism
 on Mitchell's memoir. He objects with great justice to
 Mitchell's mathematical calculations, and he altogether dis
trusts the validity of the inference drawn from these calcula
 tions " (History &c. p. 334).
    Relying on so high an authority, the same paper is referred
to by J. Jevons in his ' Principles of Science.' He says :—
   " The calculations of Mitchell have been called in question
by the late James D. Forbes, and Mr. Todhunter vaguely
countenances his objections, otherwise I should not have
thought them of much weight " (Principles &c. vol. i.
p. 286).
   Now the article in question contains a very erroneous
conception of the " law of great numbers," and its applica
tion to the investigation of accidental distribution, and the
objections of Prof. Forbes against this application, together
with the experiments made by him on the random distribu
tion of grains thrown on a chess-board, furnish, on the con
trary, a very good argument for and illustration of the very
same views they are intended to invalidate.
   Misinterpretations of the laws of " random scattering "
like those of Prof. Forbes are not very rare, especially in the
writings of statisticians, so I thought it worth while to show
the error of these misconceptions.
   It is a common error to confound random scattering with
uniform distribution. It is true that the most probable result
of a series of drawings from an urn containing an equal
number of black and white balls will be an equal number of
both ; but this result is in itself very improbable, because this
is but one out of a great number of possible events, all giving
unequal distribution, less probable individually, but more
probable in sum, than the most probable result. Also, the
most probable distribution of points on a surface, if scattered
at random, is a uniform one, but this is very improbable.
The probable result of a random scattering is therefore not a
uniform distribution.
   Let n points be distributed on a surface divided into m
equal parts (squares). Then, although the probable number
of points in each square is —, it is very probable that there
will be squares containing less than — points, while others
will contain more.
   Let us find the probable number of squares containing a
given number of points. The probability of a given point

                     of Points on a Surface.                441
 being in a given square is —; the inverse probability of its
 not being in this square is
 Hence the probability that this square contains i points and
no more is
                Pi=i l (n-^ip (to) (1_m)       ;
and the probable number of squares containing t points will
 be nip(, or
                 m- iU^^Ji1-^-                      •••<!)
   We will apply these formulae to the experiments described
by Prof. Forbes. He writes :—
   " I have thought it worth while to test a little by simple
experiment the differences to which ' mere chance ' gives rise
in the grouping of bodies dispersed over a surface, by a
method of ' random scattering,' which I conceive to be as
nearly as possible analogous to Mitchell's idea of chance as
affecting the placing of the stars. ... I placed a chess-board,
having, as usual, sixty-four squares, on the floor, and I pro
vided a large sieve into which I put a quantity of grains of
rice, which did not fall through the sieve until it was some
what shaken. I then shook the sieve at a considerable height
above the chess-board until it was pretty well scattered over
with grains. . . . The following diagrams contain the results
of five experiments, the number of grains which fell on each
of the sixty-four squares being counted and registered. . . .
In these experiments we observe that the most loaded squares
contain from nearly two to more than four times the average
number of grains, whilst in four out of five experiments one
or more squares were vacant. ... If we were to take any
one of these experiments, and attempt to calculate the ante
cedent probability of the grains so arranging themselves on
Mitchell's supposition, we should unquestionably find nume
rical chances far greater against these configurations being
the result of accident, than those on which we are told that
we form our most certain ordinary judgments. Thus, if an
experimental argument may be admitted, the reasoning of
Mitchell and his followers is altogether fallacious."
   But if we calculate the probable number of squares con-
Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 24. No. 150. Nov. 1887.          2 G

442           J. Kleiber on " Random Scattering "
taining a given number of grains in these experiments,
putting in our formula (1) wi = 64, n = total number of grains,
we find, on the contrary, deductively, a distribution very
 similar to that obtained by Prof. Forbes in his experiments.
    The following diagram represents the results of Prof
 Forbes's first experiment.
                             Experiment I.
              4      3     3         6        2   4 | 2 1 1
              4      4     4         3        1   4       3     1
              6      2     3         2        3   5       3     2
              3      0     4 | 3              4   7       1     3
                                 1
              0      4     4         4        0   3       4     4
              3      2     3         3        2   5       5     5
              2      3     3         0        3   5       1     1
                                 1
              1      3                        1   2       0     2
                           3 j 2
    In the following table I give the comparisons between the
theoretical and observed numbers of squares containing given
 numbers of points.
             Number of                     Number of squares.
              grains in               ,           .v.
              a square.                 Observed.     Calculated.
                  0 .    .     .   .        5            3-6
                  1 .    .    .    .        8          10-4
                  2 .    .     .   . 11                15-1
                  3 .    .     .    . 19               14-4
                 4 .    .     .    . 13                10-3
                  5 .    .     .    .       5            5-8
                 6 .     .     .   .        2            2-8
                 7 .    .     .    .        1            11
               Above    .     .    .        0            0-4
    The observed and calculated values agree sufficiently. A
still more close agreement is presented by Experiment II.

                       of Points on a Surface.               443
                           Experiment II.
              2      7    4     1     6    5      5    3
              5     3     3    5      6    7      2    8
              7     6     3    2      7   6       1    4
              4     8     8    3      4   5       2    4
              0     5     6    7      4   2      3     7
              1     6     3    4      6   8      5     2
              2     4     4    7      5   3      4     8
              2     4     5    5      3   3      3     4
            Number of              Number of squares.
             grains in                     A
             a square.          Observed.    Calculated.
                 0 .                J           0-8
                 1 .                3           3-4
                 2 .                8           7-6
                3 .               11          11-2
                 4 .              12          12-4
                5 .               10          10-9
                6 .                 7           8-0
                 7 .                7          5-0
                8 .                 5          30
              Above                 0          1- 7
   We see from these diagrams that the experiments of Prof.
Forbes by no means contradict the formulae of probabilities
applied to the question of distribution by chance.
   But these experiments are not quite free from objections.
It might be stated that by throwing grains of rice on a chess
board we must obtain a more uniform rather than an acci
dental distribution, as it is evident that the number of grains
being augmented so as to cover the whole surface of the
chess-board, we shall have a pretty equal number of grains
on each square. Another arrangement of the same experi
ment may be less objectionable, and I tried it, in order to
give a more complete illustration of the application of the
principle of random scattering.
  Taking a table of logarithms with seven places, I con

444    On " Random Scattering " of Points on a Surface.
sidered the last two figures of the logarithms of a series of
consecutive numbers, as designating the coordinates of points,
which I supposed distributed within a square divided, for
convenience, into 100 equal parts ; so ihat the sixth place of
the mantissa designated the line, the seventh place the column
in which the point was to be put. Two hundred and fifty
points were distributed in this manner, and the result was as
follows :—
       6     2     1     2   1       1    3     2      2  4
       3     0     2     3   4       2    5      1     2  5
       2     1     5     3 " 1       3     5    0      1  2
       3     7     4     6   1       1    4      1     0  0
       1     1     2     3   3       2     4     0     6  2
       1     4     2     3   2        1    3     2     2  1
       3     4     2     4   3       5     4     2     1  1
       1     2     2     2   2        2    1     3     1  4
       1     5     2     5    1      3     3     4     0  1
       0     2     4     3   5       2     2     6     4   2
 Applying to this case the formula above, in which we put
                         m=0, n=50,
 we obtain the following result :—
            Number o              Number of squares.
             points in          r         -,            ,
             a square.          Observed.    Calculated.
                0 .    .   . .      7           8-1
                1 .    .   . . 23              20-5
                2 .    .   . . 28              25-7
                3 .    .   . . 17              21-5
                4 .    .   .  . 13             13-4
                 5 .   .   .  .     7           6-7
                 6 .   .   . .      4           2-8
                 7 .   .   .  .     1           1-0
             Above         .  .     0           0-4

              Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.                 445
    Summing up our conclusions, we see that, contrary to the
 opinion of Prof. Forbes, the theory of probabilities does not
 affirm that a " perfectly uniform and symmetrical disposition
 of the stars over the sky would (if possible) be that which
 could alone afford no evidence of causation or any interfer
 ence with the laws of ' random.' " On the contrary, I have
 endeavoured to show that this theory gives a sufficient account
 of the possible irregularities of distribution such as those ob
 served by Prof. Forbes in his experiments, or those presented
 by the stars in the sky. The ingenious argumentation of
 Mitchell respecting the improbability of the observed groups
 of stars being merely accidental is by no means in contradic
 tion with the true principles of probability, and the exact
 meaning of the " law of great numbers."
   St. Petersburg, October 2, 1887.
          LVII. Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
  MAGNETIC CIRCULAR POLARIZATION IN COBALT AND NICKEL.
                         BY H. E. J. U. Dtl BOIS.
TP we consider an infinitely extended plate of any thickness in a
       uniform magnetic field normal to its plane sides ; the material
being supposed homogeneous, isotropic, and devoid of retentiveness,
the induced magnetization 0 is given by the equation
                             ¦3 — 2—T i , $«»        «
where      is the original field, k the susceptibility. From Eowland's
data for " Burden's best " iron, cast cobalt, and cast nickel the
relation between k (an essentially variable quantity in the case of
these metals), and 0 is known, and curves are accordingly plotted
corresponding to the above equation. Their shape is represented
with great approximation in the annexed diagram. The ordinate
of the singular point is the maximum 3m given by Eowland,
its abscissa is 4ir 0m ; the absolute values stand as follows :—
                                 jronbest " Cast
                        " Burden's                .
                                            « . cobalt.          . , ,
                                                           « . nickel.
                                                           Cast
    Ordinate                  J 390            880        494 C.G.S.
    Abscissa                17440            11060       6200 C.G.S.

 446            Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
    Next follows an experimental investigation of transparent films
 of cobalt and nickel prepared galvanoplastically. These, as was
 discovered by Kundt in 1884, rotate the plane of polarization of
 transmitted radiations when placed equatorially in a magnetic
 field. No residual rotation, corresponding to any residual mag
 netism on the suppression of the magnetizing field, could be detected.
    The rotation was found by Kuudt to be proportional to the
 thickness in the case, of iron ; as was to be expected, this was
 verified for cobalt and nickel.
    The maximum " twist " (». e. rotation per unit thickness) occur
 ring in a field of infinite intensity was found to be, for red light :—
            In Nickel . . .            89000° per centimetre.
            In Cobalt . . .          198000° per centimetre.
            Iron (Kundt)             209000° per centimetre.
    The curves obtained by Kundt, in which the rotation in iron
 films is plotted as a function of the field which magnetizes them,
 were also experimentally determined for cobalt and nickel.
    For all three metals it was found that these experimental curves
 have ordinates proportional to those of the magnetic curves above
 illustrated, the abscissa of the singular point being always the
 same for a given metal ; proportionality existing within the limits
of experimental error and due regard being paid to the difference
 in chemical and physical constitution of Rowland's material and
the electrolysed films employed.
    The magnetic rotation is therefore directly proportional to the
 magnetization 0.—AViedemann's Annalen, vol. xxxi. p. 941 (1887).
         ON THE SOLIDIFICATION OF LIQUIDS BY PRESSURE.
                            BY E.-H. AMAGAT.
     Theoretically, the hypothesis of J. Thomson enables us to pre
dict that, at a given temperature, the solidification of a body will
be possible under a sufficient pressure, on condition that its density
be greater in the solid than in the liquid state.
   It has been verified, for ice by Sir W. Thomson and by Mousson,
and for various solid bodies by Bunsen, Hopkins, and, recently,
by M. Batelli ; but no example is known of liquids properly so-
called which have been reduced to the solid state by pressure alone,
even among those which are very readily solidified by cold, such,
for example, as benzene.
   In my researches on the expansion and compressibility of liquids,
I have examined, between 0° and 50° and at pressures increasing to
above 3000 atmospheres, a fairly large number of substances be
longing either to inorganic or to organic chemistry. None of these
had shown signs of solidification, when the idea struck me to
examine bichloride of carbon (C..C1J. In my first trials, I was

              Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.                447
stopped by difficulties which led me to suspect at once that this
body (unknown, moreover, in the solid state) was solidified by
pressure ; I forthwith made the following experiment, which is only
the reverse of that of Mousson with ice.
   The liquid is compressed in a bronze cylinder, of which the upper
part is closed by a kind of plug of soft iron, which is at the same
time the prolongation of the pole of an electromagnet. In the
liquid a small cylinder of soft iron is free to move, sinking by its
own weight, and which, at the moment of closing the current, is
attracted and, traversing the liquid, strikes the plug. Under a
sufficient pressure, the noise produced by the collision, which is
audible at several metres distance, ceases to be heard ; it is heard
anew as soon as the pressure is sufficiently diminished. The
pressure at which the little cylinder ceased to move was, in this
experiment, about 1500 atmospheres.
   I have since carried out the following arrangement, which has en
abled me not only to see the solidification take place, but also to obtain
perfectly regular crystals and to photograph them. The chloride of
carbon is enclosed in a steel chamber having, one in front the
other behind, two horizontal holes formed by small cones of an
nealed glass, making a smooth joint by means of a conical envelope
of very thin ivory. A ray of electric light traverses these two cones
(and the liquid compressed between them) parallel to their common
axis, and falls upon a telescope fixed in the same direction : we
can, under these conditions, easily follow the course of the phe
 nomenon. The apparatus is, moreover, arranged in such a manner
 as to permit of its being maintained at a constant temperature by a
current of water, by ice, or by a freezing-mixture.
    The observations are made by bringing into focus the back face
 of the cone turned towards the telescope ; the solidification in taking
 place presents very different appearances according to the degree
 of quickness with which the pressure is produced. If this is done
 rapidly, there is seen to spring up suddenly at the periphery of the
 luminous field a wreath of crystals more and more closely packed
 and opaque ; this quickly and regularly spreads to the centre,
 which soon becomes reduced to a luminous point and disappears in
 its turn. If we continue to compress it, the field remains for some
 time completely obscured, then little by little it is illumined and the
 mass becomes transparent again : one could believe that it had
 again become liquid. If the pressure be then gradually diminished,
 the tangle of crystals reappears and the field again becomes obscure ;
 at length, the pressure diminishing continuously, the light reap
 pears anew, and the crystals dissolve and dislodge themselves from the
 mass, they are seen to sink across the liquid portion ; thus they are,
 agreeably to hypothesis, heavier than the latter.
    By taking certain precautions it is possible to obtain and to pre
 serve for some time crystals detaching themselves very regularly
 from the portion which remains liquid ; these can then be photo

  448           Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
  graphed. Parallelipipeds and right octahedra, which appear to
  belong to the cubic system, are readily distinguished.
     The determination of the pressure under which the solidiGcatiou
  takes place at different temperatures presents some difficulties ;
  the liquid is warmed by the compression, it must be compressed
 slowly, and the moment of crystallization is more difficult to hit
 upon. The inverse phenomenon taking place with diminution of
  pressure, we obtain a pressure of fusion and a pressure of solidifi
 cation, the interval between which is made as small as possible and
 the mean taken.
     I have thus found that chloride of carbon solidifies :—
             At — 19°-5 under a pressure of 210 atmospheres.
                    0°      „    „     „     620
              „   10°      „     „     „     900
              „   19°-5 „        „     „    1160
     I have made one experiment with protochloride of carbon (C^CI,) ;
 at 0° it is not solidified under a pressure of 900 atmospheres.
    I have likewise examined benzene, which, at 0°, solidifies under
 the normal pressure ; but an accident having interrupted these
 researches, I have only been able to prove that at 22° it crystallizes
in beautiful feathers under a pressure of about 700 atmospheres
(approximate).
    The question arises whether there is not, for each liquid, a tem
 perature above which solidification cannot take place under any
 pressure, that is to say a critical temperature of solidification, in
the same way that there appears to be a temperature below which
the body remains solid under the feeblest pressures. This I must
leave for further investigation.—Comptes Rendus, July 18, 1887.
                     ON A NEW VOLTAIC BATTERY.
                 BY F. FRIED EKICHS IN STUTZERBACH.
    The novelty in this battery consists in the mode of filling and
emptying the exciting liquid, by an arrangement met with in some
forms of apparatus for generating sulphuretted hydrogen. A series
of tubulated bell-glasses, supported with their necks downwards,
are connected by means of caoutchouc-tubes with a horizontal glass
tube containing as many tubulures as there are glass vessels. One
end of this horizontal tube is connected by means of an india-
rubber tube with a tubulure in a large glass reservoir containing the
exciting liquid. This vessel can be raised or lowered to any
desired extent, and thus the cells can be filled to any height or
can be emptied. The emptying is facilitated by a stopcock in the
other end of the tube.
    If it is wished to use a smaller number of cells the india-rubber
tube connecting the cell and the horizontal tube can be clamped by
a stopcock.—Wiedemann's Annalen, No. 9, 1887.

                                     THE
              LONDON, EDINBURGH, and DUBLIN
      PHILOSOPHICAL                            MAGAZINE
                                     AND
            JOURNAL                  OF       SCIENCE.
                           [FIFTH SERIES.]
                        DECEMBER 1887.
 LVIII. On the Relative Motion of the Earth and the Lumini-
   ferous ^Ether. By Albert A. Michelson and Edward
    W. Morley*.
 THE discovery of the aberration of light was soon followed
         by an explanation according to the emission theory.
 The effect was attributed to a simple composition of the
 velocity of light with the velocity of the earth in its orbit.
 The difficulties in this apparently sufficient explanation were
 overlooked until after an explanation on the undulatory theory
 of light was proposed. This new explanation was at first
 almost as simple as the former. But it failed to account for
 the fact proved by experiment that the aberration was
 unchanged when observations were made with a telescope
filled with water. For if the tangent of the angle of aberra
tion is the ratio of the velocity of the earth to the velocity
 of light, then, since the latter velocity in water is three-
fourths its velocity in a vacuum, the aberration observed with
a water telescope should be four-thirds of its true valuef.
    On the undulatory theory, according to Fresnel, first, the
   • Communicated by the Authors.
   This research was carried out with the aid of the Bache Fund.
   t It may be noticed that most writers admit the sufficiency of the ex-
Slanation according to the emission theory of light ; while in fact the
  ifficulty is even greater than according to the undulatory theory. For
on the emission theory the velocity of light must be greater in the water
telescope, and therefore the angle of aberration should be less ; hence, in
order to reduce it to its true value, we must make the absurd hypothesis
that the motion of the water in the telescope carries the ray of light in
the opposite direction !
   Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 24. No. 151. Dec. 1887.                2 H

450        Messrs. Michelson and Morley on the Relative Motion
aether is supposed to bo at rest, except in the interior of
transparent media, in which, secondly, it is supposed to move
with a velocity less than the velocity of the medium in the
           n* — 1
ratio —g—, where n is the index of refraction. These two
             n*
hypotheses give a complete and satisfactory explanation of
aberration. The second hypothesis, notwithstanding its
 seeming improbability, must be considered as fully proved,
 first, by the celebrated experiment of Fizeau*, and secondly,
 by the ample confirmation of our own workf. The experi
 mental trial of the first hypothesis forms the subject of the
 present paper.
      If the earth were a transparent body, it might perhaps be
 conceded, in view of the experiments just cited, that the inter-
 molecular aether was at rest in space, notwithstanding the
 motion of the earth in its orbit ; but we have no right to ex
 tend the conclusion from these experiments to opaque bodies.
 But there can hardly be any question that the nether can and
 does pass through metals. Lorentz cites the illustration of a
 metallic barometer tube. When the tube is inclined, the
 tether in the space above the mercury is certainly forced out,
 for it is incompressible*. But again we have no right to
 assume that it makes its escape with perfect freedom, and if
 there be an}' resistance, however slight, we certainly could not
 assume an opaque body such as the whole earth to offer free
  passage through its entire mass. But as Lorentz aptly
  remarks : " Quoi qu'il en soit, on fera bien, a mon avis, de ne
  pas se laisser guider, dans une question aussi important^, par
  des considerations sur le degnS de probability ou de simplicity
  de l'une ou de 1'autre hypothese, mais de s'addresser a l'ex-
  perience pour append re a connaitre l'etat, de repos ou de
  mouvement, dans lequel se trouve Father a- la surface
  terrestre." §
       In April, 1881, a method was proposed and carried out for
  testing the question experimentally ||.
       In deducing the formula for the quantity to be measured,
      * Compfes Rendus, xxxiii. p. 349 (1851) ; Togg. Ann. Erganzungsband,
  iii. p. 457 (1853) ; Ann. Chim. Phys. [3], lvii. p. 385 (1850).
      f "Influence of Motion of the Medium on the Velocity of Light."
  Am. J. Sci. [3], xxxi. p. 377 (1886).
      X It may be objected that it may escape by the space between the
  mercury and the walls; but this could be prevented by amalgamating
  the latter.
      § Archive* Nde.rlandaises, xxi. 2""" livr. Phil. Mag. [5j, xiii. p. 236.
       || " The Relative Motion of the Earth and the Lumimfurous ^Ether,'
  by Albert A. Michelson. Am. J. Sci. [3], xxii. p. 120.

              of tlie Earth and the Luminiferous sEther.           451
the effect of the motion of the earth through tho tether on the
path of the ray at right angles to this motion was overlooked*.
 The discussion of this oversight and of tho entire experiment
 forms the subject of a very searching analysis by H. A.
Lorentzf, who finds that this effect can by no means be dis
regarded. In consequence, the quantity to be measured had
in fact but half tho value supposed, and as it was already
 barely beyond the limits of errors of experiment, tho conclu
sion drawn from the result of the experiment might well be
 questioned ; since, however, the main portion of the theory
 remains unquestioned, it was decided to repeat the experiment
with such modifications as would insure a theoretical result
 much too largo to be masked by experimental errors. The
 theory of the method may be briefly stated as follows : —
    Let sa, fig. 1, be a ray of light which is partly reflected in
ab, and partly transmitted in ac, being returned by the
                                       Fig. 1.
                             7
                                               1.
                             a /
                                                      1
                           /                            1
mirrors b and c along ba and ca. ba is partly transmitted
along ad, and ca is partly reflected along ad. If then the
paths ab and ac are equal, the two rays interfere along ad.
Suppose now, the aether being at rest, that the whole appa
ratus moves in the direction sc, with the velocity of the earth
in its orbit, the directions and distances traversed by the rays
will be altered thus :—The ray «a is reflected along ab, fig. 2 ;
   * It may be mentioned here that the error was pointed out to the
author of the former paper b\r M. A. Potier, of Paris, in the winter of
1881.
   t " De l'Influenoe du Mouvement de la Terre sur les Phen. Lum."
Archives I\, eerlandaises, xxi. 2'"° livr. (1880).
                                     2 H 2

452    Messrs. Michelson and Morley on tlie Relative Motion
the angle babt being eqnal to the aberration =*, is returned
along ban (aba/=2a), and goes to the focus of the telescope,
whose direction is unaltered. The transmitted ray goes
along ac, is returned along ca„ and is reflected at a„ making
cap equal 90— a, and therefore still coinciding with the first
                             Fig. 2.
 8
                 e
               AS
 ray. It may be remarked that the rays ba. and ca, do not
 now meet exactly in the same point an though the difference
 is of the second order ; this does not affect the validity of
 the reasoning. Let it now be required to find the difference
in the two paths abat and acar
    Let V=velocity of light.
         v= velocity of the earth in its orbit.
        D = distance ab or ac, fig. 1.
         T=time light occupies to pass from a to c.
        Ty=time fight occupies to return from c to a{ (fig. 2).
Then

           of the Earth and the Lumini/erous jEther.           453
 The whole time of going and coming is
 and the distance travelled in this time is
 neglecting terms of the fourth order.        The length of the
 other path is evidently 2D.y/1 + y^, or to the same degree
 of accuracy, 2D^l+^y9^.            The difference is therefore
 Dyj.    If now the whole apparatus be turned through 90°,
 the difference will be in the opposite direction, hence the
 displacement of the interference-fringes should be 2Dy9.
 Considering only the velocity of the earth in its orbit, this
 would be 2D x 10 ~8. If, as was the case in the first experi
 ment, D = 2 x 106 waves of yellow light, the displacement to
 be expected would be 0-04 of the distance between the inter
 ference-fringes.
    In the first experiment, one of the principal difficulties
 encountered was that of revolving the apparatus without pro
 ducing distortion ; and another was its extreme sensitiveness
 to vibration. This was so great that it was impossible to see
 the interference-fringes except at brief intervals when work
 ing in the city, even at two o'clock in the morning. Finally,
 as before remarked, the quantity to be observed, namely, a
 displacement of something less than a twentieth of the
 distance between the interference-fringes, may have been too
small to be detected when masked by experimental errors.
   The first-uamed difficulties were entirely overcome by
mounting the apparatus on a massive stone floating on
mercury ; and the second by increasing, by repeated re
flexion, the path of the light to about ten times its former
value.
   The apparatus is represented in perspective in fig. 3, in plan
in fig. 4, and in vertical section in fig. 5. The stone a (fig. 5)
is about 1*5 metre square and 0'3 metre thick. It rests on
an annular wooden float bb, 1*5 metre outside diameter, 0-7
metre inside diameter, and 0"25 metre thick. The float rests
on mercury contained in the cast-iron trough cc, 1*5 centi

454 Messrs. Michelson and Morley on the Relative Motion
metre thick, and of such dimensions qs to leave a clearance
of about one centimetre around the float. A pin d, guided
by arms g ggg, fits into a socket e attached to the float. The
pin may be pushed into the socket or be withdrawn, by a
lever pivoted at/. This pin keeps the float concentric with
the trough,, but does not bear any part of the weight of the
stone. The annular iron trough rests on a bed of cement on
 a low brick pier built in the form of a hollow octagon.
                               Fig. 3.
   At each corner of the stone were placed four mirrors dd ee,
fig. 4. Near the centre of the stone was a plane parallel glass
b. These were so disposed that light from an argand burner
a, passing through a lens, fell on b so as to be in part re
flected to d, ; the two pencils followed the paths indicated in the
figure, b d edbf and b d, e,dj>frespectively, and were observed
by the telescope/. Both / and a revolved with the stone.
The mirrors were of speculum metal carefully worked to
optically plane surfaces five centimetres in diameter, and the
glasses b and c were plane parallel of the same thickness,
 1-25 centimetre ; their surfaces measured 5"0 by 7-5 centi
metres. The second of these was placed in the path of one
of the pencils to compensate for the passage of the other
through the same thickness of glass. The whole of the
optical portion of the apparatus was kept covered with a
wooden cover to prevent air-currents and rapid changes of
temperature.
    The adjustment was effected as follows :—The mirrors
 having been adjusted by screws in the castings which held the

           of the Earth and the Luminiferous ^Ether.        455
 mirrors, against which they were pressed by springs, till light
 from both pencils could be seen in the telescope, the lengths
                             Fig. 4.
                                                    ''''ss
                                            /' //   /*
                                         ''4',''/'
                                      '///////
                VvV^N                /'////'/
                    \\\\\\ ^//// /'/ y
         X
       /
   a/
of the two paths were measured by a light wooden rod
reaching diagonally from mirror to mirror, the distance being
read from a small steel scale to tenths of millimetres. The
difference in the lengths of the two paths was then annulled
by moving the mirror er This mirror had three "adjust
ments : it had an adjustment in altitude and one in azimuth,
like all the other mirrors, but finer ; it also had an adjust
ment in the direction of the incident ray, sliding forward or
backward, but keeping very accurately parallel to its former
plane. The three adjustments of this mirror could bo made
with the wooden cover in position.
   The paths being now approximately equal, the two images
of the source of light or of some well-defined object placed

456 Messrs. Michelson and Morley on the Relative Motion
in front of the condensing lens, were made to coincide, the
telescope was now adjusted for distinct vision of the expected
interference-bands, and sodium light was substituted for
white light, when the intorference-bands appeared. These
were now made as clear as possible by adjusting the mirror
e, ; then white light was restored, the screw altering the
length of path was very slowly moved (one turn of a screw
                              Fig. 5.
                        !o 9 d        ^ c
                            g *x> g t
                                  /
of one hundred threads to the inch altering the path nearly
1000 wave-lengths) till the coloured interference-fringes
reappeared in white light. These were now given a con
venient width and position, and the apparatus was ready for
observation.
   The observations were conducted as follows :—Around the
cast-iron trough were sixteen equidistant marks. The appa
ratus was revolved very slowly (one turn in six minutes) and
after a few minutes the cross wire of the micrometer was set
on the clearest of the interference-fringes at the instant of
passing one of the marks. The motion was so slow that this
could be done readily and accurately. The reading of the
screw-head on the micrometer was noted, and a very slight
and gradual impulse was given to keep up the motion of the
stone ; on passing the second mark, the same process was
repeated, and this was continued till the apparatus had com
pleted six revolutions. It was found that by keeping the
apparatus in slow uniform motion, the results were much
more uniform and consistent than when the stone was brought
to rest for every observation ; for the effects of strains could
be noted for at least half a minute after the stone came to
rest, and during this time effects of change of temperature
came into action.
   The following tables give the means of the six readings ;
the first, for observations made near noon, the second, those

            of the Earth and the Luminiferous ^Ether.                                     457
near six o'clock in the evening. The readings are divisions
of the screw-heads. The width of the fringes varied from
40 to 60 divisions, the mean value being near 50, so that one
division means 0'02 wave-length. The rotation in the obser
vations at noon was contrary to, and in the evening observa
tions, in the same direction as, that of the hands of a watch.
                            Noon Observations.
                       16.       1.      2.       3.       4.       6.       0.     7.       8.
                     44-7      440      43-5     39-7     35-2     34-7    34-3    32-5    28-2
  July 9             574       57 3     58-2     59-2     58-7     60-2    608     620     61-5
  July 11            27-3      23-5     22-0     193      19-2     193      187    18-8    16-2
  Mean               431       41-6     412      39-4     37-7     38-1    37 9    37-8    353
  Mean in w.l. ...    •802     •832     ¦824     ¦788     •754     •762     •758   •75<i   •706
                      •706     •692     •686     •688     •688     ¦678     •672   ¦628    •616
                     •784      •762     •755     ¦738     ¦721     ¦720     ¦715    692    •001
                        9. 1 10.          11.      12.      13.     14.        15.        16.
 July 8                26-2     23-8     23-2     20-3     18-7     17-5      16-8       13-7
 July 9               63-3      65-8     673      697      707      730       70-2       72-2
 July 11               14-3     133      12-8     133      12-3     10-2        73         6-5
                      34-6      34-3     34-4     34-4     33-9     336       31-4       308
                       •692     ¦686     •688     •688     ¦678     ¦672      ¦628       ¦616
 Final mean
                              P.M. Observations.
                  16.       1.       2,       3.       4.       5.       6.       7.        8.
  July 8         612 633 63-3 08-2 67-7 69-3 70-3                               69-8     690
  July 9         260 260 28-2 292 31-5 320 31-3                                 31-7      330
  July 12        668 665 660 643 622 61-0 61-3                                  59-7      58-2
                 51-3 51-9 52-5 539 53-8 541 543                                53-7      53-4
  Mean in w.l. 1-026 1038 1050 1078 1-076 1-082 1086                            1074     1068
               1068 1086 1-076 1084 1100 1-136 1144                             1-154    1172
  Final mean . 1-047 1-062 1063 1081 1-088 1109 1-115                           1-114    1120
                                 10.      11.      12.      13.      14.       15.        Hi.
 July 8                713 71-3 70-5 71-2 712 70-5 72-5 75-7
 July 9                358 36-5 37-3 38-8 410 427 43-7 440
 July 12               55-7 537 54-7 650 58-2 585 570 56-0
 Mean                  543 53-8 54-2 55-0 56-8 572 57-7 58-6
 Mean in w.l.        1-086 1-076 1-084 1-100 1-136 1144 1-154 1172
 Final

458 Messrs. Michelson and Morley on the Relative Motion
   The results of the observations are expressed graphically in
fig. 6. The upper is the curve for the observations at noon,
and the lower that for the evening observations. The dotted
curves represent one eighth of the theoretical displacements.
It seems fair to conclude from the figure that if there is any
                              Fig-. 6.
displacement due to the relative motion of the earth and the
luminiferous aether, this cannot be much greater than 0-01 of
the distance between the fringes.
    Considering the motion of the earth in its orbit only, this
displacement should be
                       2D-^=2DxlO"8.
The distance D was about eleven metres, or 2 X 10T wave
 lengths of yellow light ; hence the displacement to be expected
was 0-4 fringe. The actual displacement was certainly less
 than the twentieth part of this, and probably less than the
 fortieth part. But since the displacement is proportional
to the square of the velocity, the relative velocity of the
earth and the a?ther is probably less than one sixth the earth's
 orbital velocity, and certainly less than one fourth.
    In what precedes, only the orbital motion of the earth is
considered. If this is combined with the motion of the solar
system, concerning which but little is known with certainty,
the result would have to be modified ; and it is just possible
that the resultant velocity at the time of the observations was
small, though the chances are much against it. The experi
ment will therefore be repeated at intervals of three months,
and thus all uncertainty will be avoided.
   It appears from all that precedes reasonably certain that if
there be any relative motion botween the earth and the lumi

           of the Earth and the Luminiferous JEther.          459
niferous aether, it must be sm.aH ; quite small enough entirely
to refute Fresnel's explanation of aberration. Stokes has
given a theory of aberration which assumes the aether at the
earth's surface to be at rest with regard to the latter, and only
requires in addition that the relative velocity have a ]K>tential ;
but Lorentz shows that these conditions are incompatible.
Lorentz then proposes a modification which combines some
ideas of Stokes and Fresnel, and assumes the existence of a
potential, together with Fresnel's coefficient. If now it were
legitimate to conclude from the present work that the aether
is at rest with regard to the earth's surface, according to
Lorentz there could not be a velocity potential, and his own
theory also fails.
                            Supplement,
    It is obvious from what has gone before that it would be
 hopeless to attempt to solve the question of the motion of the
solar system by observations of optical phenomena at the sur
face of the earth. But it is not impossible that at even
moderate distances above the level of the sea, at the top of
 an isolated mountain-peak, for instance, the relative motion
might be perceptible in an apparatus like that used in these
experiments. Perhaps if the experiment should ever be tried
under these circumstances, the cover should bo of glass, or
should be removed.
    It may be worth while to notice another method for multi
 plying the square of the aberration sufficiently to bring it
 within the range of observation which has presented itself
 during the preparation of this paper. This is founded on the
 fact that reflexion from surfaces in motion varies from the
 ordinary laws of reflexion.
    Let ab (fig. l,p. 4(>1) be a plane wave falling on the mirror
 wn at an incidence of 45°. If the mirror is at rest, the
 wave-front after reflexion will be ac.
    Now suppose the mirror to move in a direction which
 makes an angle a with its normal, with a velocity o>. Let V
 be the velocity of light in the ajther, supposed stationary, and
 let cd be the increase in the distance the light has to travel
 to reach d. In this time the mirror will have moved a
distance —~            .
             +/2 COS a
We have                   cd _ m 2 cos a
                          ad        V      '
 which put = r, and          ac _ j_r
                            ad

4G0 Messrs. Michelson and Morley on the Relative Motion
    In order to find the new wave-front, draw the arc fg with b
 as a centre and ad as radius ; the tangent to this arc from d
 will be the new wave-front, and the normal to the tangent
 from b will be the new direction. This will differ from the
 direction ba by 6, which it is required to find. From the
 equality of the triangles adb and edb it follows that 6 = 2<f>,
 ab = ac,
                        /         fl\ 1— tan 3-
       tan adb = tan ( 45° - " )=               |=£f   i _r
                        V        l' 1 + tanJ. **
                                                it
or, neglecting terms of the order r",
              a       . r*    */2a>Cosa. , to*     «
              ^ = »-+2- = ^V             + Vs
   Now let the light fall on a parallel mirror facing the first,
we should then have
                  6a = .— — V2t»cosa +, — a? cos a a,
                    /          V                     '
and the total deviation would be
                           0 + 0,-= 2p* COB* a,
where p is the angle of aberration, if only the orbital motion
 of the earth is considered. The maximum displacement
 obtained by revolving the whole apparatus through 90°
 would be
                            A = 2/3* = 0-004".
 With fifty such couples the displacement would be 0-2".
 But astronomical observations in circumstances far less favour
 able than those in which these may be taken have been made
 to hundredths of a second ; so that this new method bids
 fair to be at least as sensitive as the former.
    The arrangement of apparatus might be as in fig. 2 ; a, in
 the focus of the lens a, is a slit, bb, cc, are two glass mirrors
 optically plane, and so silvered as to allow say one twentieth
 of the light to pass through, and reflecting say ninety per
cent. The intensity of the light falling on the observing
telescope df would be about one millionth of the original
intensity, so that if sunlight or the electric arc were used
it could still be readily seen. The mirrors bb, and cc, would
differ from parallelism sufficiently to separate the successive
images. Finally, the apparatus need not be mounted so as to
revolve, as the earth's rotation would be sufficient.
   If it were possible to measure with sufficient accuracy the


462      Motion of the Earth and Luminiferous JElher.
velocity of light without returning the ray to its starting
point, the problem of measuring the first power of the relative
velocity of the earth with respect to the aether would be
solved. This may not be as hopeless as might appear at first
sight, since the difficulties are entirely mechanical and may
possibly be surmounted in the course of time.
   For example, suppose wi and mt (fig. 3) two mirrors re
volving with equal velocity in opposite directions. It is
evident that light from s will form a stationary image at s,
and similarly light from s, will form a stationary image at s.
If now the velocity of the mirrors be increased sufficiently,
their phases still being exactly the same, both images will be
deflected from s and *( in inverse proportion to the velocities
of light in the two directions ; or, if the two deflections are
made equal, and the difference of phase of the mirrors be
simultaneously measured, this will evidently be proportional
to the difference of velocity in the two directions. The only
real difficulty lies in this measurement. The following is
perhaps a possible solution.
   99/       4) are two gratings on which sunlight is concen
trated. These are placed so that after falling on the revolv
ing mirrors m and m/} the light forms images of the gratings
at s and «,, two very sensitive selenium cells in circuit with a
battery and telephone. If everything be symmetrical, the
 sound in the telephone will be a maximum. If now one of
 the slits * be displaced through half the distance between
the image of the grating bars, there will be silence. Suppose
 now that the two deflections having been made exactly equal,
 the slit is adjusted for silence. Then *f the experiment be
 repeated when the earth's rotation has turned the whole
apparatus through 180°, and the deflections are again made
equal, there will no longer be silence, and the angular dis
tance through which s must be moved to restore silence will
measure the required difference in phase.
   There remain three other methods, all astronomical, for
attacking the problem of the motion of the solar system
 through space.
    1. The telescopic observation of the proper motions of
the stars. This has given us a highly probably determina
tion of the direction of this motion, but only a guess as to its
amount.
   2. The spectroscopic observation of the motion of stars in
the Hue of sight. This could furnish data for the relative
motions only, though it seems likely that by the immense im
provements in the photography of stellar spectra, the informa
tion thus obtained will be far more accurate than any other.

         Wave-length of Sodium as the Standard of Length. 463
   3. Finally there remains the determination of the velocity
of light by observations of the eclipses of Jupiter's satellites.
If the improved photometric methods practised at the Harvard
observatory make it possible to observe these with sufficient
accuracy, the difference in tho results found for the velocity of
light when Jupiter is nearest to and farthest from tho lino of
motion will give, not merely the motion of the solar system
with reference to the stars, but with reference to the lumini-
ferous tether itself.
LIX. On a Method of making the Wave-length of Sodium
    Light the actual and practical Standard of Length. By
    Albert A. Michelson and Edward W. Morley*.
THE first actual attempt to make the wave-length of
         sodium light a standard of length was made by Peircef.
This method involves two distinct measurements : first, that
 of the angular displacement of the image of a slit by a
 diffraction-grating, and second, that of the distance between
 the lines of the grating. Both of these are subject to errors
 due to changes of temperature and to instrumental errors.
 The results of this work have not as yet been published ;
 but it is not probable that the degree of accuracy attained
 is much greater than one part in fifty or a hundred thousand.
 More recently, Mr. Bell, of the Johns Hopkins University,
 using Rowland's gratings, has made a determination of the
 length of the wave of sodium light which is claimed to be
 accurate to one two hundred thousandth partj. If this claim
 is justified, it is probably very near the limit of accuracy of
 which the method admits. A short time before this, another
 method was proposed by Mace de Lepinay§. This consists
 in the calculation of the number of wave-lengths between
 two surfaces of a cube of quartz. Besides the spectroscopic
 observations of Talbot's fringes, the method involves the
 measurement of the index of refraction and of the density
 of quartz, and it is not surprising that the degree of accuracy
 attained was only one in fifty thousand.
     Several years ago, a method suggested itself which seemed
 likely to furnish results much more accurate than either of
 the foregoing, and some preliminary experiments made in
    * Communicated bv the Authors.
    t ' Nature,' xx. p. 99 (1879) ; Amer. Journ. Sci. [3], p. 51 (1879).
    % " On the Absolute Wave-lengths of Light," Auier. Journ. Sci. [3J,
 xxxiii. p. 167 (1887); Phil. Mag. [5], xxiii. p. 36.3.
    § Comptes lieiidtm, cii. p. 1153 (1880) ; Journ. de Phys. [2], v. p. 411
 (1880).

464    Messrs. Michelson and Morley on the Wave-length
June have confirmed the anticipation. The apparatus for
observing the interference phenomena is the same as that
used in the experiments on the relative motion of the earth
and the luminiferous aether.
   Light from the source at « (fig. 1), a sodium-flame, falls on
the plane parallel glass a, and is divided, part going to the
plane mirror c, and part to the plane mirror b. These two
pencils are returned along cae and bae, and the interference
of the two is observed in the telescope at e. If the distances
ac and ab are made equal, the plane c made parallel with that
of the image of b, and the compensating glass d interposed,
the interference is at once seen. If the adjustment be exaot,
the whole field will be dark, since one pencil experiences
external reflexion, and the other internal.
   If now b be moved parallel with itself a measured distance
by means of the micrometer-screw, the number of alternations
of light and darkness is exactly twice the number of wave
lengths in the measured distance ; thus the determination
consists absolutely of a measurement of a length and the
counting of a number.
   The degree of accuracy depends on the number of wave
lengths which it is possible to count. Fizeau was unable to
                          Figs. 1 and 2.
observe interference when the difference of path amounted to
50,000 wave-lengths. It seemed probable that with a smaller
density of sodium vapour this number might be increased, and

              of Sodium as the Standard of Length.             465
 the experiment was tried with metallic sodium in an exhausted
 tube provided with aluminium electrodes. It was found pos
 sible to increase this number to more than 200,000. Now it
 is very easy to estimate tenths or even twentieths of a wave
 length, which implies that it is possible to find the number of
 wave-lengths in a given fixed distance between two planes with
 an error less than one part in two millions and probably one
 in ten millions. But the distance corresponding to 400,000
 wave-lengths is roughly a decimetre, and this cannot be deter
 mined or reproduced more accurately than, say, to one part in
 500,000. So it would be necessary to increase this distance.
 This can be done by using the same instrument together with
a comparer.
    The intermediate standard decimetre Im (fig. 2) is put in
 place of the mirror b. It consists of a prism of glass one
 decimetre long with one end / plane, and the other slightly
 convex, so that when it touches the plane m, Newton's rings
 appear, and these serve to control any change in the distance
 Im, which has been previously determined in wave-lengths.
    The end I is now adjusted so that coloured fringes appear in
 white light. These can be measured to within one twentieth
 of a wave-length, and probably to within one fiftieth. The
 piece Im is then moved forward till the fringes again appear
 at m ; then the refractometer is moved in the same direction
till the fringes appear again at I, and so on till the whole metre
has been stepped off. Supposing that in this operation the
error in the setting of the fringes is always in the same direc
tion, the whole error in stepping off the metre would be one
part in two millions. By repetition this could of course be
reduced. A microscope rigidly attached to the carriage hold
ing the piece Im would serve to compare, and a diamond at
tached to the same piece would be used to produce copies. All
measurements would be made with the apparatus surrounded
by melting ice, so that no temperature corrections would be
required.
    Probably there would be considerable difficulty in actually
counting 400,000 wave-lengths, but this can be avoided by
first counting the wave-lengths and fractions in a length of
one millimetre, and using this to step off a centimetre. This
will give the nearest whole number of wave-lengths, and the
fractions may be observed directly. The centimetre is then
used in the same way to step oft' a decimetre, which again
determines the nearest whole number, the fraction being ob
served directly as before.
   The fractions are determined as follows : the fringes ob
served in the refractometer under the conditions above
    Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 24. No. 151. Dec. 1887.          2I

466     Mr. H. H. Turner on Mr. Edgeworth's Method of
mentioned can readily be shown to be concentric circles.
The centre has the minimum intensity when the difference in
the distances ab ac is an exact number of wave-lengths. The
diameters of the consecutive circles vary as the square roots
of the corresponding number of waves. Therefore, if x is
the fraction of a wave-length to be determined, and y the
diameter of the first dark ring, d being the diameter of the
ring corresponding to one wave-length, then x =
   There is a slight difficulty to be noted in consequence of
the fact that there are two series of waves in sodium-light.
The result of the superposition of these is that, as the diffe
rence of path increases, the interference becomes less distinct
and finally disappears, reappears, and has a maximum of dis
tinctness again, when the difference of path is an exact
multiple of both wave-lengths. Thus there is an alternation
of distinct interference-fringes with uniform illumination. If
the length to be measured, the centimetre for instance, is
such that the interference does not fall exactly at the maxi
mum—to one side by, say, one tenth the distance between
two maxima, there would be an error of one twentieth of a
wave-length requiring an arithmetical correction.
   Among other substances tried in the preliminary experi
ments were thallium, lithium, and hydrogen. All of these
gave interference up to fifty to one hundred thousand wave
lengths, and could therefore all be used as checks on the
determination with sodium. It may be noted, that in case of
the red hydrogen-line, the interference phenomena disappeared
at about 15,000 wave-lengths, and again at about 45,000 wave
 lengths; so that the red hvdrogen-line must be a double line
 with the components about one sixtieth as distant as the
sodium-lines.
 LX. On Mr. Edgeworth's Method of Reducing Observations
   relating to several Quantities. By H. H. Tuener, M.A.,
   B.Sc, Fellow of Trinity College, Cambridge*.
 IN the Philosophical Magazine for August 1887, Mr. F. Y.
      Edgeworth invites attention to a method of reducing
 observations relating to several quantities, which he has sug
 gested as a substitute for the ordinary process of the " Method
 of Least Squares." I have applied this method to an example
 for a particular case of two variables, and venture to offer the
 following remarks and suggestions for consideration.
                  * Communicated by the Author.

      Reducing Observations relating to several Quantities. 467
   Mr. Edgeworth thus describes his method in the case of
two variables x and y :—" Find an approximate solution by
some rough process (such as simply adding together several
of the equations so as to form two independent simultaneous
equations). Take the point thus determined as a new origin,
and substitute in the n (transformed) equations for one of the
variables x a series of values + 8, +28, &c. Corresponding
to each of these substitutions we have n equations for y. For
each of these systems determine the Median according to
Laplace's Method, of Situation. This series of Medians fonns
one locus for the sought point. A second locus is found by
transposing x and y in the directions just given. The inter
section of these loci is the required point."
    Some of the labour of this process, and sometimes the pre
liminary search for an approximate solution, may be avoided
by the use of a graphical method, which will be best described
by considering first a simple case. Suppose we have five
equations,
                        x + "01 y = au
                         x + '01 y = a2,
                         ¦>¦ +    y = K
                         x +      y = h,
                         x +      y = bt.
Geometrically these represent two lines nearly parallel to the
axis of y, and three inclined at 45° to it.
    Now in forming the first normal equation according to the
 Method of Least Squares, we should multiply each of the
 equations by the coefficient of x, which is unity in each case.
 In Mr. Edgeworth's method we are to find the median lino,
 weighting all the equations according to the coefficient of x,
 i. e. equally. This is evidently the broken line A B C D E F;
 for an ordinate drawn through any point of it cuts the system
 of five lines in five points, one of which is on the locus
 A B C D E F and two others are on either side.
     It is obviously very easy to draw this locus when once wo
 have any portion of it ; for we simply traverse the network,
 changing our line at every corner.
     The second median locus is obtained by weighting the
 eqiiations, or lines according to the coefficients of y. The
 first two count for very little, and the last three again count
 equally. The median is thus the line K L throughout, for the
 crossing of the slightly weighted lines does not disturb the
 balance of weights.
     We are now to take the point of intersection of these loci
                               2 12

468     Mr. H. H. Turner on Mr. Edgeworth's Method of
as the final solution of the equations. It will he noticed that
this leaves the solution somewhat indeterminate ; for any
point of the portion C D satisfies the required condition.
    This special case is in many respects an unfavourable
 example of the method under consideration ; but it illustrates
 sufficiently well the following points : —
    (1) The two median loci are broken lines which follow the
lines of the network formed by the separate observation-lines
 (except in one very special instance mentioned below), and
 formed according to the following rule. Suppose the lines
all labelled with the coefficients of x in the equations repre
 senting them. At any point of the locus let A be the sum of
 all the labels to the left (looking along the locus), and B the
 sum of all those to the right ; / the label of the line with
 which the locus coincides. Then A + />B and B + Z>A.
    The locus continues to coincide with the line I until it is
 crossed by another, say from the right, weight m. Then if
 the locus is to change to this new line, the sum of labels on
 the left is still A, but on the right is B— w + 1 : thus we must
have
                       A + m>(B— m + l),
and
                       (B— m + l) + m>A.
 The second condition is the same as one of the former ; but
 if the first is not fulfilled, the locus continues to travel along
 the line I. By this rule the two loci can be traced with great

    Reducing Observations relating to several Quantities.    469
ease. It is necessary, however, to select the scale of the dia
gram with some care, so as to prevent confusion when there
are many equations.
   If the final solution is roughly known, the origin should be
taken in the neighbourhood ; and substitution of this rough
solution in the equations will enable us to leave out of con
sideration those with large residuals, the lines representing
which will often not fall within the limited area of paper at
command. [If it should happen, when the line m crosses
that
                        A + m=B— m + I,
the locus does not follow either line, but consists of the whole
space between them up to the next crossing. This is the
special case referred to above.]
   (2) In the method of least squares the normal equations
give a unique solution ; but the intersection of two broken
lines may be a series of points, and the two median loci may
also have a common portion. The solution then becomes to
some extent indeterminate. It is difficult to decide whether
this is generally the case ; but in all the simple examples
which I have tried, and in two real examples of 93 and 67
equations respectively, the intersection of the loci consisted of
a finite line and one or more points : and there are also cases
where the loci approach very closely, and where they would
have again met had one only of the observations been almost
infinitesimally different. For instance, in the longest example
tried, I took ninety-three equations of the form x + Ay=B.
B is the tabular error in the semidiameter of Venus, as ob
tained by a certain observer at Greenwich. This is supposed
divisible into two parts ; one constant, x, and the other, y,
varying as the diameter A. The values of x and y obtained
by the method of least squares were
                         *=l"-22 ±0"-222,
                        y=0"-024±0"-011.
By the method of median loci, I obtain
                      tf=0"-93, y=0"-037,
or                    x=l"-13, y=0"-032;
or any value on the line joining these two points.       There is
also a point of meeting of the loci at
                      #=1"-15, y = 0"-029 ;
and a point of near approach at
                      *=l"-37,    y = 0"-017.

470    Reducing Observations relating to several Quantities.
   These equations were discussed by Mr. Thackeray in the
Monthly Notices of the Royal Astronomical Society ; and his
solution, obtained by simple addition of the equations with
largo and those with small coefficients of y, was
                          #=l"-432,
                          y=0"-014.
   It is possible that the number and distribution of these
points of intersection afford real information as to the value
and accordance of the observations. But, in practice, a
single solution, although its singularity may be somewhat
fictitious, is preferable to a variety ; and unless some ad
ditional criterion for extracting a single solution from the
median loci can be obtained, it is to be feared that wo have
here a somewhat serious objection to this method on the score
of convenience.
    The extension to the case of three variables is obvious : the
three normal equations, or rather the planes which they repre
sent, are replaced by three broken-plane loci, made up of
 individual planes corresponding to the separate observations.
These loci may intersect in a finite portion of a plane, one or
 more finite lines, and one or more points : and the multiplicity
 of solutions is obviously liable to increase largely with the
number of variables.
    Mr. Edgeworth claims as advantages for the new method
that
    (1) It is considerably less laborious than the Method of
 Least Squares.
    (2) In the case of Discordant Observations it is theoreti
 cally better.
    So far as my slight experience entitles me to express an
 opinion on these points, 1 should say that
    (1) is very doubtful. In trying a new method much time
is liable to be wasted ; but there wouid, I imagine, never be
 quite the same straightforwardness about the new method
 which makes the method of least squares so easy, although
 somewhat long.
     (2) is somewhat counterbalanced by the failure to give a
unique solution.

                            [  471    ]
LXI. On the Diffusion of Gases.—A simple case of Diffusion.
                     By S. H. Burbury*.
         ET two reservoirs be connected by a uniform horizontal
        I tube. In the left-hand reservoir shall be a mixture of
two gases, gas I. and gas II., in certain proportions ; and in
the right-hand reservoir a mixture of the same two gases in
different proportions. The temperature and also the pressure
of the mixture shall be the same in either reservoir. Then a
stream of gas I. will flow through the tube, say from left to
right, and a stream of gas II. from right to left.
    \Vre will suppose the proportions in which the gases are
mixed, as well as the total pressure and temperature, to be
maintained constant in each reservoir, as if, for instance, the
reservoirs be of infinite extent. Under these circumstances
the motion through the tube will become steady, and the tem
perature and pressure of the combined gases will be the same
 throughout. The problem of diffusion is to find what, under
 these circumstances, the stream-motion of either gas will be
 for given proportions of the mixture at the extremities of the
tube.
    It is assumed that the stream-velocity is very small com
 pared with the mean square velocity of either gas required by
 the kinetic theory. This must be the case if the tube be long
 enough. It is iissumed, further, that in calculating the result
 of encounters between the molecules they are to be regarded
as elastic spheres.
    If hx denote the number of molecules of gas I. in unit of
 volume at any point, nt the same for gas II., then by Avo-
 gadro's law n] +n3 is constant throughout the system. We
 will take the axis of the tube for axis of x. Then at any point,
                         dni d"s_Q
                         dx     dx
     2. Professor Tait has recently ("On the Foundations of the
  Kinetic Theory of Gases," Transactions of the Royal Society
  of Edinburgh, 1887) given what he considers to be the solu
 tion of the problem in a slightly more general form, assuming
 the tube vertical. He assumes that the molecules of the
  diffusing gas have, in addition to their ordinary velocities
  required by the kinetic theory, a common velocity a of trans
  lation along the tube, very small compared with the velocity
  of mean square. In his view this common translation-velocity
                  • Communicated by the Author.

472                    Mr. S. H. Burbury on the
is the same for all classes of molecules of the same gas what
ever their absolute speeds in space, no distinction being drawn
between those classes which have great and those which have
small absolute speeds.
     I propose to show (as has been already proved by Boltz-
mann) that, in order to represent the true motion of the dif
fusing gas, it is necessary to make a, the small additional
translation-velocity, a function of the absolute velocity of
the molecules, those classes which have greater absolute velo
city having greater translation-velocity ; and that Professor
Tait's hypothesis, making a constant, is inconsistent with
steady motion. It is sufficient to prove this for the imaginary
case of two gases, of which the molecules of one have the
same mass and the same diameter as those of the other.
    3. At any point in the tube let us take two parallel sections,
A and A', each of unit area, distant Bx from each other. The
volume of the cylinder whose bases are A and A' is Bx. We
will call it our element of volume. At A let nx be the number
of molecules of gas I., nt the number of molecules of gas II.,
per unit of volume. Then at A' the respective numbers will be
     . dni f         j    , dn2 r      ji . •      •     dn,   dn3
iiy + — ox, and n3 +             bx ; that is, since -~ = — —^t
and
                           «a + ^7 Bx for gas II.
    At A the number of molecules of gas I. in unit volume
whose velocities, irrespective of direction, lie between v and
v + dv, shall be denoted by n-J'^dv. We will call them the
class v. Those members of the class v whose directions of
motion make with the axis of the tube angles between i^r and
    -t-rfi/r shall be called the class (i>, i]r). Their number in the
gas at rest would be
                          n^v^dv \ sin ifr d-^r.
    In the moving gas it will be
                                  dv ^ sin iff d\}r
                       + \ «i/(t') dv - cos i]r sin yfr dyfr ;
a being the mean translation-velocity for the class v, whether
that be a function of v or not.
    4. Let us now find the number of molecules of the class

                           Diffusion of Gases.                          473
(v, y]r) that cross the section A per unit of time.            It is
                    «i/(t') do £ v cos yfr sin yfr dyfr
                  +          dv | a cos8 yfr sin    dyjr.
Of course if cos yjr is positive the}' enter the element of volume;
if cos t/t is negative they leave it.
   5. We next consider the momentum in direction x which is
carried across the section A by the class (y, i^-). If m be the
mass of a molecule, it is
           mni f(v) dv { £ v4 cos9 yfr + ^oa cos3 ijr } sin \fr difr.
If we integrate this expression according to yfr from ir to 0,
we obtain the momentum in direction x which the whole class
v brings into our element of volume through the section A in
unit time, negative momentum carried out of the element by
molecules having cos\Jr negative being treated as positive
momentum carried into the element. The result is
               mni/(y) dv ^ I cos8 ^ sin yfr dty,         ....          (A)
                            1 Jo
the term in cos3 ^ disappearing.
    6. We will now consider what happens at the other sec
tion A'.
   The momentum in direction x of the class v which is carried
out of our element of volume at A' per unit of time is found
from the expression A by writing n, + -~ Sx, that is,
       dn                     .
n,       r— dx for n,. It is therefore
        dx
         m ^i^— ^Sxj/(v)dv^ ^ cos2 y{r sin yff dyfr. .                . (A')
    7. Comparing the expressions A and A', we see that the
momentum of the class v in the direction of positive x which
enters the element of volume in unit time exceeds the mo
mentum which leaves the element of volume by the quantity
                m     Sx ^fiy) dv^ cos2 yfr sin           d^j
that is,
    If therefore there were no encounters, the class v within
 our element of volume would gain x momentum per unit time

474                Mr. S. H. Bnrbury on the
by the amount
                             ^A*) dvjri
or would gain x velocity -~hxf{v)dv-^ per unit time.         This
is the effect of the variation of density of gas I. from point to
point along the tube.
   8. But the motion is in fact steady. Therefore this gain in
translation-velocity, which would accrue to the class v in the
absence of encounters, is exactly compensated by the loss
which is due to encounters. A certain number of the class
undergo encounter, and are knocked out of the class in a unit
of time. An equal number of molecules come out of encoun
ters with velocity between v and dv, that is enter the class v,
in a unit of time. And these, as they enter the class, have
less average translation-velocity than the continuing members
of the class have.
   Let B be the average number of encounters with molecules
of either gas which a molecule of class v undergoes in unit
time. In the special case we are now treating, B is the same
for all directions of motion of the molecule ; because in what
ever direction there are more encounters with one gas, there are
by the same number fewer with the other. It follows that those
members of the class v which undergo encounter have before
such encounter the same mean translation-velocity which the
other members of the class have. Now n,/(t')rfr B molecules
per unit volume and unit time undergo encounters, and cease
to be members of the class. Were they not replaced, the ag
gregate translation-velocity of the class would be diminished
from this cause by n{Bf{v) dv.a per unit of volume and time.
But an equal number of molecules come out of encounters
with velocity between v and r; + dv ; and these have some
mean translation-velocity in .r, which we will call a!. The
effect of encounters on the translation-velocity of the class v
is to substitute per unit volume and unit time njB/^t') dv mole
cules with mean translation-velocity «' for the same number
with mean translation-velocity «.
   This diminishes the translation-velocity of the class v within
our element of volume Bx by
                      nj/(r) dv B(a —a') Bx
in unit time.
   9. For steady motion we equate this expression to the gain
of translation-velocity which, as we have seen, arises from the
variation of density. We thus obtain the equation

                        Diffusion of Gasen.                    475
             ~ ^ &r/(r) dv = n,B(« - «') &*/(t<) cfo,
or
                      ^=nlB(«-«)                                (1)
This equation must in steady motion be satisfied for every
class of molecules. And it cannot be satisfied without making
a a function of v. Were a made constant, molecules with
high values of v would begin to gain more translation-velocity
than they lose. The arrangement could not be permanent.
    10. It is of course true that the effect of encounters between
 the different classes of molecules of the same gas is to equalize
 the translation-velocity. A levelling-process is always going
 on. It is also true, as Professor Tait shows (page 83), that
 this process goes on very fast ; because B, the number of
 encounters per second, is a very large quantity. The larger
 you make B, the smaller you make at and a'. But the equa
 tion (1) remains none the less true, and none the less must a
 be a function of v.
    Nor is it a matter of indifference whether we treat a as
 constant or not. The greater the absolute speed the greater
 the number of encounters per unit time. Therefore, for given
 stream-velocity of the whole gas, the resistance will be greater
 if that stream-velocity be all attributed to the higher classes
 than if it be the same for all classes. Therefore, in order to
 get the same resistance with a constant, we must increase the
 stream. Any result obtained with a constant can be no more
 than a superior limit of the stream-velocity ; and the value of
  such a solution depends on the limits of error being ascertained.
     I think the same error vitiates Professor Tait's treatment of
  Viscosity and Thermal Conductivity.
     11. As a step towards the true solution, I will endeavour to
  obtain inferior and superior limits for the stream-velocity in
  this imaginary case, the molecules of one gas having equal
  mass and diameter with those of the other. I will further
  suppose that there exists a point C in the tube at which «j = n2.
  This must be the case if «i > n2 in one reservoir, and nx < n2
  in the other. If we can find the stream-velocity at C, we
  know it at every point in the tube.
     12. The number of encounters per unit of time for each
  molecule of the class v is B. I shall assume that at the point
  C, where n! = n2, there are for each molecule of the class £B
  encounters with molecules of gas II., and £B with other
  molecules of gas I.
     13. A molecule of gas I. coming out of encounter with

476                Mr. 8. H. Burbury on the
velocity between v and v + dv has on an average, if we include
encounters of both kinds, some translation-velocity in direc
tion x, which we have called          This will have altogether
different values according as the encounter is with another
molecule of gas I. or with a molecule of gas II. Let it be «/
in the first case, and «3' in the second. Then, at the point C,
our equation (1) becomes
                £g = iB(«-«1') + iB(«-a,'). ...                (2)
   14. We can now prove that at C, where nl = n2, «/ = 0.
This can be done as follows :—Let p, q be two velocities such
that pi + qt> vi. Then, for an encounter from which a mole
cule of gas I. issues with velocity v, the velocities before
encounter may be either p for the molecule of gas I., and q
for that of gas II., or vice versd. There are just as many
encounters one way as the other ; and the chance of the given
event happening, namely that the molecule of gas I. comes
out with velocity v, is the same in either case.
   Let V be the velocity of the centre of gravity of the two
molecules engaged. Then, taking the two groups p q and qp
together, V can have no average component in x. This
follows from the symmetry of the circumstances, nY being
equal to n3. If <j> be the angle made by V with x, cos <f> = 0.
    In the figure let C P denote V, and Q C = V denote the half
 relative velocity, and Q P denote t>. Then Q P must be
 seme radius vector of the cone described about C P as axis with
                                   uS-l-V'8— V2
 semivertical angle QPC= cos-1 —gyV7            "        since all
 directions of V are equally probable after encounter, Q P may
 with equal probability be any radius vector of that cone.
 Therefore if 6 be the angle made by Q P with x, and <f> that
 made by CP with x, the mean value of cos 6, given <p, is
 cos QPC cos        And the mean value of cos 6 for all directions

                         Diffusion of Gases.                    477
 of CP is cos QCP cos <f> ; that is, zero, since cos <f> = 0. There
fore molecules of gas I. issuing from encounter with molecules
 of gas II. with velocity v have no average translation-velocity ;
that is, a3' = 0.
    15. Our equation (2) is thus reduced to
                  v* dn*       _.         ..   , -r,
                  3 ^ = in1B(«-«1') + i"iBa»
or
                    _ 1 dnt v*       ,  ,
where a/ is the mean projection on x of the velocity v of a
molecule of gas I. as it comes with that velocity out of an
encounter with another molecule of gas I. Now there can be
no gain or loss of x velocity to gas I. as a whole from encoun
ters between its own molecules, although some classes may
gain and others lose. It follows that if we integrate for all
values of v from oo to 0,
or
                      §/{v) Badv =        B«/ dv.
   But the effect of these encounters is to equalize wholly or
partially the translation-velocities of the different classes ; so
that «i is less than a for high, greater than a for low, values
of v. Also B increases with v. Therefore, since
                   f f(v)B«dv = ("f^Bu/dv,
£ /[v)ct1'dv must be greater than J* f(v) dv.
   16. We have then
                            1 dn1vi          ,
                      a~ an~ldx'B+iai'
Therefore, taking mean values, nx is the stream of gas I., and

478                  On the Diffusion of Gases.
where jj denotes the mean for all classes of molecules of the
function g.     We may write vl for         if I be the mean free
path for a v. We have thus obtained an inferior limit for n^a..
   17. We have now to ascertain the superior limit. Let us
suppose a to be for an instant constant. The gain of x velo
city to the class v per unit of time due to variation of density
is in this case, as before,
And there is a loss due to encounters. We cannot with a
constant make the loss equal to the gain for each class sepa
rately ; but we can so choose the constant a as that, for an
instant, the loss to the whole gas per unit time shall bo equal
to the gain for the whole gas. That is,
             £      = {7(«o«,B(«-«')d»
                    = f dvf{v)n^Bo^' + ^Bo^<).
                       Jo
Then, as before,
and, as before,
 Our equation is thus reduced to
 and therefore
 Here we have WB, the quotient of the means, instead of '— >
 the mean of the quotient.
    Also for given stream, the loss of translation-velocity by
 encounters is less when a is constant than when a is variable,
 and increases with v. Therefore, to make the loss equal to the
 gain for the whole gas, we must make a greater in the former
 than in the latter case. And therefore the value of a last
 found must be greater than the true stream-velocity. We may

            On Resistance and Conductance Operators.          479
then say that the stream nxa lies between
                   2 dnt v*        2 dn3
                   3 dx B         3 cfo;
   18. The value of the stream which we have found at C must
be the same at every point in the tube.      This depends on J*^
being constant.     Now from equation (1) we deduce
                      1 v* dn?    —      —:
                      3B^=nia-"ia-
and nxx is constant. In the case we are now treating, all
molecules having the same mass and diameter, the relation
between a! and a is the same at all points of the tube. There
fore n(a.—a!) is constant, and^-p is constant.
    19. It would appear from this investigation that if the
molecules of gas I. could be so guided as never to collide with
each other, but only with the common enemy, the molecules
of the other gas (the motion being in other respects unaltered),
then the stream-velocity would assume ^          g as its limiting
value. We might, on the other hand, keep continually changing
the directions, so as to make and maintain a the same for all
classes without changing its mean value a, or in other respects
altering the motion. In this case the stream-velocity would
assume the limiting value g         tf[B.
LXII. On Resistance and Conductance Operators, and their
    Derivatives, Inductance and Permittance, especially in con
    nexion with Electric and Magnetic Energy. By Oliver
    Heaviside*.
 1. TF we regard for a moment Ohm's law merely from a
    JL mathematical point of view, we see that the quantity R,
which expresses the resistance, in the equation V = RC, when
 the current is steady, is the operator that turns the current
 C into the electromotive force V. It seems, therefore, appro
 priate that the operator which takes the place of R when the
 current varies should be termed the resistance-operator. To
 formally define it, let any self-contained electrostatic and
                   * Communicated by the Author.

480               Mr. 0. Heaviside on Resistance
electromagnetic combination be imagined to be cnt anywhere,
producing two electrodes or terminals. Let the current enter
ing at one and leaving at the other terminal be C, and let the
potential-difference be V, this being the fall of potential from
where the current enters to where it leaves. Then, if V = ZC
be the differential equation (ordinary, linear) connecting V
and C, the resistance-operator is Z.
   All that is required to constitute a self-contained system is
the absence of impressed force within it, so that no energy
can enter or leave it (except in the latter case by the irrever
sible dissipation concerned in Joule's law) until we introduce
an impressed force ; for instance, one producing the above
potential-difference V at a certain place, when the product
VC expresses the energy-current, or flux of energy into the
system per second.
   The resistance-operator Z is a function of the electrical
constants of the combination and of d/dt, the operator of time-
differentiation, which will in the following be denoted by p
simply. As I have made extensive use of resistance-operators
and connected quantities in previous papers*, it will be suf
ficient here, as regards their origin and manipulation, to say
that resistance-operators combine in the same way as if they
represented mere resistances. It is this fact that makes them
of so much importance, especially to practical men, by whom
they will be much employed in the future. I do not refer to
practical men in the very limited sense of anti- or extra-
theoretical, but to theoretical men who desire to make theory
practically workable by the simplification and systematization
of methods which the employment of resistance-operators and
their derivatives allows, and the substitution of simple for
more complex ideas. In this paper I propose to give a con
nected account of most of their important properties, including
some new ones, especially in connexion with energy, and some
illustrations of extreme cases, which are found, on examina
tion, to " prove the rule."
   2. If we put/> = 0 in the resistance-operator of any system
as above defined, we obtain the steady resistance, which we
may write Z0. If all the operations concerned in Z involve
only differentiations, it is clear that when C is given com
pletely, V is known completely. But if inverse operations
(integrations) have to be performed, we cannot find V from
C completely ; but this does not interfere with the use of the
resistance-operator for other purposes.
   * Especially Part III., and after, "On the Self-induction of Wires,"
Phil. Mag. Oct. 1886 and after. Also 'Electrician,' Dec. 1884.

                        and Conductance Operators.                 481
    It is sometimes more convenient to make use of the converse
method. Thus, let Y be the reciprocal of Z, so that C = YV.
If we make p vanish in Y, the result, say Y0, is the conduct
ance of the combination. Therefore Y is the conductance-
operator.
    The fundamental forms of Y and Z are
                             Z=R + Lp,                              (1)
                             Y=K + Sp                               (2)
In the first case, it is a coil of resistance R and inductance L
that is in question, with the momentum LC and magnetic
energy £LC2. In the second case, it is a condenser of con
ductance K and permittance S, with the charge SV and
electric energy £SV2 ; or its equivalent, a perfectly non
conducting condenser having a shunt of conductance K.
     In a number of electromagnetic problems (no electric
energy) the resistance-operator of a combination, even a
complex one, reduces to the simple form (1). The system
then behaves precisely like a simple coil, so far as externally
 impressed force is concerned, and is indistinguishable from a
 coil, provided we do not inquire into the internal details. I
 have previously given some examples*. Substituting con
 densers for coils, permittances for inductances, we see that
 corresponding reductions to the simple form (2) occur in
 electrostatic combinations (no magnetic energy).
     But such cases are exceptional ; and, should a combination
 store both electric and magnetic energy, it is not possible to
 effect the above simplifications except in some very extreme
 circumstances. There are, however, two classes of problems
 which are important practically, in which we can produce
 simplicity by a certain sacrifice of generality. In the first
 class the state of the whole combination is a sinusoidal or
 simple harmonic function of the time. In the second class
 we ignore altogether the manner of variation of the current,
 and consider only the integral effects in passing from one
 steady state to another, which are due to the storage of
 electric and magnetic energy.
     3. If the potential-difference at the terminals be made sinu
 soidal, the current will eventually become sinusoidal in every
 part of the system, unless it be infinitely extended, when con
 sequences of a singular nature result. At present we are
 concerned with a finite combination. Then, if ?i/2tt be the
 frequency of the alternations, we have the well-known pro-
    * « On the Self-Induction of Wires," Parts VI. and VII. (Phil. Mag.
  [6], vols, zxiii. & xxiv.)
     Phil. Mag. 8. 5. Vol. 24. No. 151. Dec. 1887.           2 K

482                Mr. 0. Heaviside on Resistance
perty jt>a= — n3; which substitution, made in Z and Y, reduces
them to the forms
                           Z^R' + I/p,                                   (3)
                            Y=K' + 8'p;                                  (4)
where R', I/, K', S' are functions of the electrical constants
and of n2, and are therefore constants at a given frequency.
    In the first case we compare the combination to a coil
whose resistance is R' and inductance I/, so that R' and 1/
are the effective resistance and inductance of the combination,
originally introduced by Lord Rayleigh* for electromagnetic
combinations. In my papers, however, there is no limitation
to cases of magnetic energy onlyt, and it would be highly
inconvenient to make a distinction.
    In a similar way, in the second case we compare the com
bination to a condenser, and we may then call Kf the effective
conductance and S' the effective permittance at the given
frequency. R' reduces to Z0, and K' to Y0 at zero frequency.
But it is important to remember that the two comparisons are
of widely different natures : and that the effective resistance
is not the reciprocal of the effective conductance.
    Y and Z in (3) and (4) are reciprocal, or YZ = 1, just as
the general Y and Z of (1) and (2) are reciprocal.
    If (V) and (C) denote the amplitudes of V and C, we have,
by (3) and (4),
                  (V)/(C) = (R/2 + W)*=I, say, ... (5)
                  (C)/(V)=(K'2 + S*«2)W,say.                 ...          (6)
 I and J are also reciprocal. The former, I, being the ratio of
 the force to the flux (amplitudes), is the impedance of the
 combination. It is naturally suggested to call J the " admit
 tance" of the combination. But it is not to be anticipated
 that this will meet with so favourable a reception as impe
 dance, which term is now considerably used, because the
 methods of representation (1), (3), and (5) are more useful
 practically than (2), (4), and (6) ; although theoretically tbe
 two sets are of equal importance f.
   * Phil. Mag. May 1886.
   t In Part V. of " On the Self-Induction of Wires " I have given a few
 examples of mixed cases of an elementary nature, in connexion with the
 problem of finding the effect of an impressed force in a telegraph circuit.
   \ The necessity of the term impedance (or some equivalent) to take the
 place of the various utterlv misleading expressions that have been used,
 has come about through the wonderful popularization of electromagnetic
 knowledge due to the dynamo, and its adoption to Sir W. Thomson's
 approval of it and of one or two other terms.

                  and Conductance Operators.                 483
   To obtain the relations between R' and K', and 1/ and S',
we have
            Y=(R' + L'p)-' = (R'-L»I-s, .... (7)
            Z=(K' + S/p)-1 = (K/-S»J-,; ....                 (8)
from which we derive
             PK'=R',                J2R'=K',
            -P8'=I/,              -J2L'=S',             V '. (9)
            L'/R' = - S'/K'.       R'/K' = P = - L'/S', )
all of which are useful relations.
   4. By (3) and (4) we have the equations of activity
                   VC = R'Cs+p(iL'C2),                      (10)
                   VC=K'Vs + p(iS'V2),                      (U)
in general. Now, if we take the mean values, the differen
tiated terms go out, leaving
                       VC = R'C5=K'V3,                      (12)
the bars denoting mean values. The three expressions in
(12) each represent the mean dissipativity, or heat per
second. R' and K' are therefore necessarily positive. It
should be noted that R'O2 or K'V2 do not represent the dis
sipativity at any moment. The dissipativity fluctuates, of
course, because the square of the current fluctuates ; but
besides that, there is usually a fluctuation in the resistance,
because the distribution of current varies, and it is only by
taking mean values that we can have a definite resistance at
a given frequency.
   If the combination be electromagnetic, and T denote the
magnetic energy, its mean value is given by
                           T=iL'C2,                         (13)
so that L' is necessarily positive and S' negative. But £L'C2
is not usually the magnetic energy at any moment.
   If the combination be electrostatic, and U denote the elec
tric energy, its mean value is
                           U = iS'V2,                       (14)
so that S' is positive and L' negative. The electric energy at
any moment is not usually £S'V2.
    But, in the general case of both energies being stored, we
have
                   T-U = iL'U2=-^S'V2                       (15)
                              2K2

484             Mr. 0. Heaviside on Resistance
If the mean magnetic energy preponderates, the effective
inductance is positive, and the permittance negative ; and
conversely, if the electric energy preponderates. If there be
no condensers, the comparison with a coil is obviously most
suitable, and if there be no magnetic energy we should natu
rally use the comparison with a condenser ; but when both
energies coexist, which method of representation to adopt is
purely a matter of convenience in the special application
concerned.
   If the mean energies, electric and magnetic, be equal, then
                  I7=0 = S', R'K'=1, -»
                       I=R',       J=K'.J      •   •  •  *   (16)
That is, by equalizing the mean energies we bring the cur
rent and potential-difference into the same phase, annihilate
the effective inductance (and also permittance), and make the
effective conductance the reciprocal of the effective resistance,
which now equals the impedance itself. It should be noted
that the vanishing of the energy-difference only refers to the
mean value. The two energies are not equal and do not
vanish simultaneously. Sometimes, however, their sum is
constant at every moment, but this is exceptional. [Example,
a coil and a condenser in sequence.]
   5. Passing now to the second class referred to in § 2.
imagine, first, the combination to be electromagnetic, and
that V is steady, producing a steady C, dividing in the
system in a manner solely settled by the distribution of con
ductivity. Although we cannot treat the combination as a
coil as regards the way the current varies when the impressed
force is put on, we may do so as regards the integral effect
at the terminals produced by the magnetic energy. This last
is the well-known quadratic function of the currents in different
parts of the system,
               T=iL1C12 + MC1C2 + iLsC22 +                   (17)
Now put every one of these C's in terms of the C, the total
current at the terminals, which may be done by Ohm's law.
This reduces T to
                           T=£L0C2,                          (18)
where L0 is a function of the real inductances, self and mutual,
of the parts of the system, and of their resistances. This L0
may be called the impulsive inductance of the system. For
although it is, in a sense, the effective steady inductance,
taking the current C at the terminals as a basis, being, in
fact, the value of the sinusoidal inductance 1/ at zero fre

                   and Conductance Operators.                485
quency ; yet, as it is only true for impulses that the com
bination behaves as a coil of inductance L0, it is better to
signify this fact in the name, to avoid confusion. This will
be specially useful in the more general case in which both
energies are concerned.
   Secondly, let the system be electrostatic. Then, in a similar
way, we may write the electric energy in the form
                           U = £S0V,                        (19)
in terms of the V at the terminals, where Sj is a function of
the real permittances and of the resistances. S0 is the
impulsive permittance of the combination. It is also the
sinusoidal S' at zero frequency.
   In (18) L0 is positive, and in (19) S0 is positive. The
momentum or electromotive impulse at the terminals in the
former case is L0C, and in the latter case is — S0RV, where
R is the steady resistance. The true analogue of momentum,
however, is charge, or time-integral of current, and this, at
the terminals, is — S0V, corresponding to L0G.
   6. Passing to the general case, and connecting with the
resistance-operator, let T be the current at the terminals at
time t when varying, so that
             v=zr«(Z0+/>z0/+ii>%"+...)r, . . (20)
where the accents denote differentiations to p, and the zero
suffixes indicate that the values when p = 0 are taken. The
coefficients of the powers of p are therefore constants. Inte
grating to the time,
             jvd<=jz0iv* +z0'[r] +iZo"[f] +                 (21)
If the current be steady at beginning and at end,
                     j(V-z0r)d<=Zo'[r],         .... (22)
and if tho initial current be zero, and the final value be C,
                     j(V-Zor)cfc = Z0'C;                    (23)
so that Z0'G is the electromotive impulse employed in setting
up the magnetic and the electric energy of the steady state
due to steady V at the terminals. Thus
                           L0=Z0'                           (24)
finds the impulsive inductance from the resistance-operator.
Or,
                   Lo=(Z-Z0)p-' with p=0. . . . (25)
   In a similar manner, we may show that
                        S0=Y0' = -Z-2Z0'                    (26)

486              Mr. 0. Heaviside on Resistance
finds the impulsive permittance from the conductance-operator.
L0C and — S0Z0V are equivalent expressions for the electro
motive impulse.
   If Z0 should be infinite, then nse Y. For instance, the
insertion of a nonconducting condenser of permittance S! in
the main circuit of the current makes Z0 infinite, since the
resistance-operator of the condenser is (Sjjo)-1. There is no
final steady current, and L0 is infinite. We should then use
(26) instead of (24), especially as the energy is wholly electric
in the steady state.
   7. To connect with the energy, multiply (23) by C, the
final current, and, for simplicity, let V be steady ; giving
              j(v-Br)Cdt=z0,c:!=jv(C-r)^. .              .  (27)
It may be anticipated from the preceding that these equated
quantities express twice the excess of the magnetic over the
electric energy.
   In connexion with this I may quote from Maxwell, vol. ii.
art. 580. A purely electromagnetic system is in question.
" If the currents are maintained constant by a battery during
a displacement in which a quantity of work, W, is done by
electromotive force, the electrokinetic energy of the system
will be at the same time increased by W. Hence the battery
will be drawn upon for a double quantity of energy, or 2W, in
addition to that which is spent in generating heat in the
circuit. This was first pointed out by Sir YV. Thomson.
Compare tbis result with the electrostatic property in art. 93."
The electrostatic property referred to relates to conductors
charged by batteries. If " their potentials are maintained
constant, they tend to move so that the energy of the system
is increased, and the work done by the electrical forces during
the displacement is equal to the increment of the energy of the
system. The energy spent by the batteries is equal to double
of either of these quantities, and is spent half in mechanical,
half in electrical work."
   Although of a somewhat similar nature, these properties are
not what is at present required, which is contained in the fol
lowing general theorem given by me*:—Let any steady
impressed electric forces be suddenly started and continued in
a medium permitting linear relations between the two forces,
electricand magnetic, and the three fluxes—conduction current,
electric displacement, and magnetic induction (but with no
rotational property allowed, even for conduction current); the
whole work done by the impressed forces during the establish-
               * 'Electrician,' April 25, 1885, p. 490.

                    and on Cductance Operators.               487
 ment of the steady state exceeds what would have been done
 had this state been instantly established (but then without any
electric or magnetic energy) by twice the excess of the electric
over the magnetic energy. That is,
              J rf<2e(r-r0)A=2(U-T),            ....        (28)
where e stands for an element of impressed force, T the
current-density at time t, T0 the final value, and 2 the space-
integration to include all the impressed forces. (Black letters
for vectors.) The theorem (28) seems the most explicit and
general representation of what has been long recognized in a
general way, that permitting electric displacement increases
the activity of a battery, whilst permitting magnetization
decreases it. The one process is equivalent to allowing elastic
yielding, and the other to putting on a load (not to increasing
the resistance, as is sometimes supposed).
   Applying (28) to our present case of one impressed force V,
producing the final current C, we obtain
                  j'<aV(r-C)<ft = 2(U-T),       ....        (29)
comparing which with (27), we see that
              T-U=iZ0'C2=iL0Cl=-iS0V8, .               .  .  (30)
confirming the generality of our results.
   8. It is scarcely necessary to remark that the properties of
Z and Z' previously discussed do not apply merely to com
binations consisting of coils of fine wire and condensers ; the
currents may be free to flow in conducting masses or dielectric
masses. Solid cores, for example, may be inserted in coils
within the combination. The only effect is to make the
resultant resistance-operator at a given place more complex.
   But a further very remarkable property we do not recognize
by regarding only common combinations of coils and con
densers. If we, in the complex medium above defined, select
any unclosed surface, or surface bounded by a closed line, and
make it a shell of impressed force (analogous to a simple mag
netic shell), thereby producing a potential-difference V between
its two faces, and C be the current through the shell in the
direction of the impressed force, there must be a definite
resistance-operator Z connecting them, depending upon the
distribution of conductivity, permittivity, and inductivity
through all space, and determinable by a sufficiently ex
haustive analysis. The remarkable property is that the
resistance-operator is the same for any surfaces having the
same bounding-edge. For a closed shell of impressed force

 488               Mr. 0. Heaviside on Resistance
 of uniform strength can produce no flux whatever.          This is
 instructively shown by the equation of activity,
                         2er = Q + U + f,                      (31)
 indicating that the sum of the activities of the impressed
 forces, or the energy added to the system per second, equals
 the total dissipativity Q, plus the rate of increase of the stored
 energies, electric and magnetic, throughout the system. Now
 here T consists of closed tubes ; if, therefore, the distribution
of e be polar, or e be the vector space-variation of a single-
 valued scalar potential, of which a simple closed shell of
impressed force is an example, the left member of (31)
vanishes, so that the dissipation, if any, is derived entirely
from the stored energy. Start, then, with no electric or
magnetic energy in the system ; then the positivity of Q, U,
and T ensures that there never can be any, under the influence
of polar impressed force. Hence two shells of impressed
force of equal uniform strength produce the same fluxes
if their edges be the same ; not merely the steady fluxes
possible, but the variable fluxes anywhere at corresponding
moments after commencing action. The only difference made
when one shell is substituted for the other is in the manner of
the transfer of energy at the places of impressed force ; for
we have to remember that the effective force producing a
flux, or the " force of the flux/' equals the sum of the impressed
force and the " force of the field ;" whereas the transfer of
energy is determined by the vector product of the two forces
of the field, electric and magnetic respectively. In (31) no
count is taken of energy transferred from one seat of impressed
force to another, reversibly, all such actions being eliminated
by the summation.
   It is well to bear in mind, when considering the consequences
of this transferability of impressed force, especially in cases of
electrolysis or the Volta force, not only that the three physical
properties of conductivity, permittivity, and inductivity, though
sufficient for the statement of the main facts of electro-
magnetism, are yet not comprehensive, but also that they
have no reference to molecules and molecular actions ; for
the equations of the electromagnetic field are constructed on
the hypothesis of the ultimate homogeneity of matter, or, in
another form, only relate to elements of volume large enough
to allow us to get rid of the heterogeneity.
   As the three fluxes are determined solely by the vorticity
(to borrow from liquid motion) of the vector impressed force,
we cannot know the distribution of the latter from that of the
former, but have to find where energy transformations are

                   and Conductance Operators.                  489
going on ; for the denial of the law that er not only measures
the activity of an impressed force e on the current T, but
represents energy received by the electromagnetic system at
the very same place, lands us in great difficulties.
   Again, as regards the " electric force of induction." We
cannot find the distribution through space of this vector from
the Faraday law that its line-integral in a closed circuit equals
the rate of decrease of induction through the circuit. We
may add to any distribution satisfying this law any polar dis
tribution without altering matters, except that a different
potential function arises. In this case we do not even alter
the transfer of energy. The electric force of the field is
always definite ; but when we divide it into two distinct dis
tributions, and call one of them the electric force of induction,
and the other the force derived from electric potential, it is
then quite an indeterminate problem how to effect the division,
unless we choose to make the quite arbitrary assumption that
the electric force of induction has nothing of the polar cha
racter about it (or has no divergence anywhere), when of
course it is the other part that possesses the whole of the
divergence. This fact renders a large part of some mathe
matical work on the electromagnetic field that I have seen
redundant, as we may write down the final results at the
beginning. In the course of some investigations concerning
normal electromagnetic distributions in space I have been
forcibly struck with the utter inutility of dividing the electric
field into two fields, and by the simplicity that arises by not
doing so, but confining oneself to the actual forces and fluxes,
which describe the real state of the medium and have the least
amount of artificiality about them. Similar remarks apply to
Maxwell's vector-potential A. Has it divergence or not ? It
does not matter in the least, on account of the auxiliary polar
force. When the electric force itself is made the subject of
investigation, the question of divergence of the vector-potential
does not present itself at all.
   The lines of vorticity, or vortex-lines of the vector impressed
force, are of the utmost importance, because they are the ori
ginating places of all disturbances. This is totally at variance
with preconceived notions founded upon the fluid analogy,
which is, though so useful in the investigation of steady
states, utterly misleading when variable states are in question,
owing to the momentum and energy belonging to the mag
netic field, not to the electric current. Every solution
involving impressed forces consists of waves emanating from
the vortex lines of impressed force (electric or magnetic as
the case may be, but only the electric are here considered),

490              Mr. 0. Heaviside on Resistance
together with the various reflected waves produced by change
of media and other causes. At the first moment of starting
an impressed force the only disturbance is at the vortex lines,
which are the first lines of magnetic induction.
   (a) Thus a uniform field of force suddenly started over all
space can produce no effect. For, either there are no vortex
lines at all, or they are at an infinite distance, so that an
infinite time must elapse to produce any effect at a finite
distance from the origin.
    (b) Copper and zinc put in contact. Whether the Volta-
force be at the contact or over the air-surfaces away from
and terminating at the contact (if perfectly metallic), the
vortex-line is the common meeting-place of air, zinc, and
copper ; the first line of magnetic force is there, and from it
the disturbance proceeds into the metals and out into the air,
which ends in the steady electric field*.
    Since the vortex-lines or tubes are closed, we need only
consider one at present—say, that due to a simple shell of
impressed force. If it be wholly within a conductor, the
initial wave emanating from it is so rapidly attenuated by the
conductivity (the process being akin to repeated internal
reflexions, say reflexion of 9 parts and transmission of
1 part, repeated at short intervals) that the transmission
to a distance through the conductor (if good) becomes a very
slow process, that of diffusion. Consequently, when the
impressed force is rapidly alternated, there is no sensible
disturbance except at and near the vortex-line.
    But if there be a dielectric outside the conductor, the
moment disturbances reach it, and therefore instantly if
the vortex-line be on the boundary, waves travel through
the dielectric at the speed of light unimpeded, and without
the attenuating process within the conductor, which therefore
becomes exposed to electric force all over its boundary in a
very short time ; hence diffusion inward from the boundary.
The electric telegraph would be impossible without the di
electric. It would take ages if the wire itself had to be the
seat of transfer of energy.
    (c) In the electromagnetic theory of the rise of current in
a wire we have, at first sight, an exception to the law that at
the first moment there is no disturbance except at the vortex-
 lines of impressed force. But it is that theory which is
incorrect, in assuming that there is no displacement. This
is equivalent to making the speed of propagation through
the dielectric infinitely great ; so that we have results mathe-
   * " Some Remarks on the Volte Force," Journal S. T. E. & E., 1885.

                   and Conductance Operators.                 491
matically equivalent to distributing the impressed force
throughout the whole circuit, and therefore its vortex-lines
over the whole boundary*. In reality, with finite speed, the
disturbances come from the real vortex-lines in time.
   There is still a limitation of the disturbances to the neigh
bourhood of the vortex-lines when they are on the boundary
of the conductor, and the frequency of alternations is suffi
ciently great, the impressed force being within the con
ductor.
   But in a non-conducting dielectric this effect does not
occur, at least in any case I have examined. On the con
trary, as the frequency is raised, there is a tendency to
constancy of amplitude of the waves sent out from the edge
of a simple sheet of impressed force, or from a shell of
vortex-lines of the same, in a dielectric. Very remarkable
results follow from the coexistence of the primary and re
flected waves. Thus :—
   (d) If a spherical portion of an infinitely extended di
electric have a uniform field of alternating impressed force
within it, and the radius a, the frequency n/2ir, and the
speed v be so related that
there is no disturbance outside the sphere. There are nume
rous similar cases ; but this is a striking one, because, from
the distribution of the impressed force, it looks as if there
must be external displacement produced by it. There is not,
because the above relation makes the primary wave outward
from the surface of the sphere, which is a shell of vorticity,
be exactly neutralized by the reflexion, from the centre,
of the primary wave inward from the surface.
   (e) If, instead of alternating, the uniform field of impressed
force in (d) be steady, the final steady electric field due to it
takes the time (r+a)jv to be established at distance r from
the centre. The moment the primary wave inward reaches
the centre, the steady state is set up there ; and as the
reflected wave travels out, its front marks the boundary
between the steady field (final) and a spherical shell of
depth 2a, within which is the uncancelled first portion of
the primary wave outward from the surface ; which carries
 out to an infinite distance an amount of energy equal to that
of the final steady electric field. This is the loss by radiation.
 [The magnetic energy in this shell equals half the final
                 * ' Electrician,' June 25, 1886, p. 129.

492              Mr. 0. Heaviside on Resistance
electric energy on the whole journey ; the electric energy in
the shell is greater, but ultimately becomes the same.] In
practical cases this energy would be mostly, perhaps wholly
dissipated in conductors.
   (/) If a uniformly distributed impressed force act alter-
natingly longitudinally within an infinitely long circular
cylindrical portion of a dielectric, the axis is the place of
reflexion of the primary wave inward, and the reflected wave
cancels the outward primary wave when
                             J,(na/r) = 0 ;
so that there is no external disturbance, except at first.
   (ff) There is a similar result when the vorticity of impressed
force takes the place of impressed force in (/).
   (A) If the alternating impressed force act uniformly and
longitudinally in a thin conducting-tube of radius a, with air
within and without, then
                            J0(na/v) == 0
destroys the external field and makes the conduction-current
depend upon the impressed force only. And if we put a
barrier at distance x to serve as a perfect reflector, that is, a
tube of infinite conductivity,
                             J0(n.«/t<) = 0
makes the electric force of the field in the inner tube to be
the exact negative of the impressed force ; so that there is no
conduction-current. The electromagnetic field is in sta
tionary vibration. If the inner tube be situated at one of
the nodal surfaces of electric force, the vibrations mount up
infinitely.
   (t) If, in case (/t), the impressed force act circularly about
the axis of the inner tube (which may be replaced by a
solenoid of small depth),
                           J^na/v) = 0
destroys the external field, and
                           J^nx/v) = 0
makes the electric force of the field the negative of the
impressed force, and so destroys the conduction-current.
   (J) We can also destroy the longitudinal force of the field
in a conductor without destroying the external field. Let it
be a wire of steady resistance in a dielectric, and the impressed
force in it be
                         e = e0 cos mx cos nt
per unit length. Then m = n/v makes e be the force of the

                    and Conductance Operators.                 493
flax, in the wire ; so that the current is JZe, if K be the con
ductance of unit length.
   These examples are mostly selected from a paper I am
now writing on the subject of electromagnetic waves, which
I hope to be permitted to publish in this Journal.
    If the electric and magnetic energies, and the dissipation of
energy, in a given system be bounded in their distribution, it
is clear that the resistance-operator is a rational function of p.
But should the field be boundless, as when conductors are
contained in an infinitely extended dielectric, then just as
complete solutions in infinite series of normal solutions may
become definite integrals by the infinite extension, so may the
resistance-operator become irrational. We may also have to
modify the meaning of the sinusoidal R' from representing
mean resistance only, on account of the never-ceasing outward
transfer of energy so long as the impressed force continues.
    9. Returning to a finite combination represented by V = ZC,
there are at least three kinds of induction-balances possible.
 First, true balances of similar systems, where we balance one
 combination against another which either copies it identically
 or upon a reduced scale, without any reference to the manner
 of variation of the impressed force. Along with these we may
 naturally include all cases in which the Z of a combination, in
 virtue of peculiar internal relations, reduces to a simpler form
 representing another combination, equivalent so far as V and
 C are concerned. The telephone may be employed with great
 advantage, and is, in fact, the only proper thing to use, espe
 cially for the observation of phenomena.
     There are, next, the sinusoidal current-balances. These are
 also true, in being independent of the time, so that the telephone
 may be used ; but are of course of a very special character
 otherwise. Here any combination is made equivalent to a
 mere coil if L' be positive, or to a condenser if S' be positive
  [§§3 and 4], and so may be balanced by one or the other.
 But intermittences of current cannot be safely taken to
  represent sinusoidality, and large errors may result from an
 assumed equivalence.
     In the third kind of balances it is the impulsive inductance
  that is balanced against some other impulsive inductance,
  positive or negative as the case may be ; or perhaps the
  impulsive inductance of a combination is made to vanish, by
  equating the electric and magnetic energies in it when its
  state is steady. The rule that the impulsive balance in a
  Christie arrangement without mutual induction between the
  four sides is given by equating to zero the coefficient of p in
  the expansion of Z^— Z2Z3 in powers of p, where Z1 &c. are

                   Mr. 0. Heaviside on Resistance
the resistance-operators of the four sides*, is in agreement
with the rule derived from (24) or (25) above, to make the
impulsive inductance of one combination vanish. Impulsive,
or " kick " balances, naturally require a galvanometer. Even
then, however, the method is sometimes unsatisfactory, when
the opposing influences which make up the impulse are not
sufficiently simultaneous, as has been pointed out by Lord
Eavleighf.
   There is also the striking method of cumulation of impulses
employed by Ayrton and Perryf, employing false resistance-
balances. It seems complex, and of rather difficult theory ;
but, just as a watch is a complex piece of mechanism, and is
yet thoroughly practical, so perhaps the secohmmeter may
have a brilliant career before it.
    Several interesting papers relating to the comparison of
inductances and permittances have appeared lately. It is
usually impulsive balances that are in question, probably
because it is not the observation of phenomena that is required,
but a direct, even if rough, measurement of the inductance or
permittance concerned, often under circumstances that do not
well admit of the use of the telephone. Only one of these
papers, however, contains anything really novel, scientifically,
viz. that of Mr. W. H. Preece, F.R.S.§, who concludes, from
his latest researches, that the " coefficient of self-induction " of
copper telegraph-circuits is nearly zero, the results he gives
being several hundred times smaller than the formula derived
from electromagnetic principles asserts it to be. Here is
work for the physicist.
    10. To equate the expressions for the electric and magnetic
energies of a combination is, I find, in simple cases, the easiest
and most direct way of furnishing the condition that the
impulsive inductance shall vanish. Thus, if there be but one
condenser and one coil, 8V2=LC2 is the condition, S and L
being the permittance and the inductance respectively, V the
potential-difference of the condenser, and C the current in the
coil. The relation between V and C will be, of course,
dependent upon the resistances concerned ||. But in complex
cases, and to obtain the value of the impulsive inductance
when it is not zero, equation (24) is most useful.
   * "On the Self-Induction of Wires," Part VI., Phil. Mag. Feb. 1887.
   t ' Electrical Measurements,' p. 65.
   J Journ. Soc. Tel. Engineers and Electricians, 1887.
   § B.A. Meeting, 1887 : " On the Coefficient of Self-induction of Iron
and Copper Wires."
   || If the condenser shunts the coil, making V = RC, we get the case
brought before the S. T. E. & E. by Mr. Suuipner, with developments.

                    and Conductance Operators.                      4!>5
   Tbe following illustration of the properties of Z and Z0' is
a complex one, but I choose it because of its comprehensive
character, and because it leads to some singular extreme
cases, interesting both mathematically and in the physical
interpretation of the apparent anomalies. Let the combination
be a telegraph -circuit, say a pair of parallel copper wires, of
length I ; resistance It, permittance S, inductance L, and
leakage-conductance K, all per unit length, and here to be
considered strictly constants, or independent of p. Let the
two wires be joined through an arrangement whose resistance-
operator is Zl at the distant end B ; then the resistance-
operator at the beginning A of the circuit is given by*
               g_ (R+ Lp)l\ (tan ml)/ml\ + Zt                      „ .
                   l + tK + S^/Z^tanmO/Cm/)}'                   "
if                  -ms=(R+Lp)(K + Sp)                             (33)
Take Zx = 0 for the present, or short-circuit at B.                This
makes
                       Z=(R + Lp)l(tnnml)/ml, . . .                (34)
and the steady resistance at A is therefore
                      Z0=Bi(tan m0l)/m0l,                          (35)
if — mo2=RK. Also, differentiating (34) to p, and                  then
making p = 0, we find
  Z/ = L0=iZ^(L-^) + ^sec^0^L + ^) .                               (36)
represents the impulsive inductance.
   If we put S = 0 in (36) we make the arrangement electro
magnetic, and then L0 is positive. If we put L = 0, wo make
it electrostatic, and L0 is negative, or S0, the impulsive per
mittance, is positive. It is to be noticed that there is no con
fusion when both energies are present ; that is, there aro no
terms in Z0' containing products of real permittances and
inductances, which is clearly a general property of resistance-
operators, otherwise the two energies would not be inde
pendent.
   We may make L0 vanish by special relations. Thus, if there
be no leakage, or K = 0, (36) is
                        L0=LZ-£R7. BSi»;                           (37)
so that the electromagnetic must be one third of the electro
static time-constant to make the " extra-current " and the
static charge balance. (The length of the circuit required for
   * " On the Self-induction of Wires," Part IV., l'hil. Mag. Nov. 1880.

496               Mr. 0. Heaviside on Resistance
this result may be roughly stated as about GO kilometres if it
be a single copper wire of 6 ohms per kilometre, 4 metres
high, with return through the ground ; but it varies con
siderably, of course.)
  ¦ But if leakage be now added, it will increase the relative
importance of the magnetic energy, so that the length of the
circuit requires to be increased to produce a balance. This
goes on until K reaches the value RS/L, when, as an exami
nation of (36) will show, the length of the circuit needs to be
infinitely great. The same formula also shows that if K be
still greater, L0 cannot be made to vanish at all, being then
always positive.
    11. Now let the circuit be infinitely long. Equation (35)
reduces to the irrational form
                    Z=±(R + Lp)*(K + Sp)-*, . . . (38)
with ambiguity of sign. Of course the positive sign must be
taken. The negative appears to refer to disturbances coming
from an infinite distance, which are out of the question in our
problem, as there can be no reflexion from an infinite distance.
But equation (38) may be obtained directly in a way which
is very instructive as regards the structure of resistance-
operators. Since the circuit is infinitely long, Z cannot be
altered by cutting-off from the beginning, or joining on, any
length. Now first add a coil of resistance R, and inductance
L, in sequence, and a condenser of conductance           and per
mittance 8|, in bridge, at A, the beginning of the circuit.
The effect is to increase Z to Z2, where
            Z,= {K1 + S1^+(Ri + LlP + Z)-1}-1; . . (39)
i. e. the reciprocal of the new Z2, or the new conductance-
operator, equals the sum of the conductance-operators of the
two branches in parallel, one the conducting condenser, the
other the coil and circuit in sequence. (39) gives the qua-
drfttio
          Za2+(R1 + LljD)Zs=(Rl + LljP)(K1 + S1^)-1. . (40)
Now choose Rj, L1; Kj, Sx in exact proportion to R, L, K, and
 S, and then make the former set infinitely small. The result
is that we have added to the original circuit a small piece of
the same type, so that Z2 and Z are identical, and that the
coefficient of' the first power of Z2 in (40) vanishes. Therefore
(40) becomes
                    Z = (R + Li9)i(K-pSp)-i                  (41)
This fully serves to find the sinusoidal solution.       Differen

                      and Conductance Operators.                   497
tiating it, we find
corroborating the previous result as to the vanishing of L0
when the circuit is infinitely long by equality of RS and KL
and the positivity of L0 when KL > RS.
    12. Now, in this singular case, we have, by (41) and (42),
                           Z=Lv, L0=0,                            (43)
if v = (LS)-*, the speed of transmission of disturbances along
the circuit. The resistance-operator has reduced to an absolute
constant, and the current and potential-difference are in the
same phase, altogether independent of the frequency of alter
nations, or indeed of the manner of variation. The quantity
Lu, or L x 30 ohms, approximately, if the dielectric be air, is
strictly, and without any reservation, the impedance of the
circuit at A, but it is only exceptionally the resistance.
    Make V =/(<), at A, an arbitrary function of the time;
then, if V, and C, are the potential-difference and the current
at distance x from A at time t, respectively, we shall have
                   T^-^l                                          (44)
                    Cx=YJLv                y                          '
or all disturbances originating at A are transmitted un-
distorted along the circuit at the speed v, attenuating at
a rate indicated by the exponential function. (I have else
where* fully developed the properties of this non-distortional
 circuit, and only mention such as are necessary to understand
 the peculiarities connected with the present subject-matter.)
 The electric and magnetic energies are always equal, not only
 on the whole, but in any part of the circuit ; this accounts for
 the disappearance of Lq, and the bringing of V, and Q, to the
 same phase, as we should expect from § 4. But in the present
 case Z0, or Lt', or R', for they are all equal, is only the resistance
 when the steady state due to the steady V at A is arrived at
  (asymptotically), or the effective resistance at a given frequency
  when V is sinusoidal, and sufficient time has elapsed to have
  allowed Vx and C, to become sinusoidal to such a distance
  from A that we can neglect the remainder of the circuit
  into which greatly attenuated disturbances are still being
  transmitted.
     13. Now, since the impedance is unaltered by joining on
 at A any length of circuit of the same type, and is a constant,
    * " Electromagnetic Induction and its Propagation," Arts. xl. to l.,
 ' Electrician,' 1887.
     Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 24. No. 151. Dec. 1887.            2 L

498               Mr. O. Heaviside on Resistance
it follows that the impedance at A of a non-distortional circuit
as above described, but offinite length, stopping at B, where
x=l, with a resistance of amount Lt> inserted at B, is also a
constant, viz. the same Lt>. To corroborate, take RS = KL
and Z1 = hv in the full formula (32) . The result is Z, = ~Lv.
The interpretation in this case is that all disturbances sent
from A are absorbed completely by the resistance at B imme
diately on arrival, so that the finite circuit behaves as if it
were infinitely long. The permanent state due to a steady V
al A is arrived at in the time l/v. The impedance and the
resistance then become identical.
    14. If, in the case of § 12, we further specialize by taking
R=0, K = 0, producing a perfectly insulated circuit of no
resistance, the impedance is, as before, Lr ; but no part of it
is resistance, or ever can be, in spite of the identity of phase
of V and C. However long we may keep on a steady V at
A, we keep the impressed force working at the same rate, the
energy being entirely employed in increasing the electric and
magnetic energies at the front of the wave, which is unat-
tenuated, and cannot return.
    But if we cut the circuit at B, at a finite distance I, and
there insert a resistance Lt', the effect is that, as soon as the
front of the wave reaches B, the inserted resistance imme
diately becomes the resistance of the whole combination ;
or the impedance instantly becomes the resistance, without
change of value.
    15. As a last example of singularity, substitute a short-
circuit for the terminal resistance Lt' just mentioned. Since
 there is now no resistance in any part of the system, if we
make the state sinusoidal everywhere, by V sinusoidal at A,
 R' must vanish, or V and 0 be in perpendicular phases, due
 to the infinite series of to-and-fro reflexions. We now have,
by (32),
                     r     pli/v            nljv             v  '
if n[2ir= frequency, and R' has disappeared.
    If, on the othee hand, V be steady at A, the current in
 creases without limit, every reflexion increasing it by the
amount Y/Lv at A or at B (according to which end the re
 flexion takes place at) , which increase then extends itself to
 B or A at speed v. The magnetic energy mounts up infi
 nitely. On the other hand, the electric energy does not,
 fluctuating perpetually between 0 when the circuit is un
 charged, and -£SZV* when fully charged. The impedance of
 the circuit to the impressed force at A is Lv for the time 2l/v

                    ami Conductance Operators.                 499
 after starting it ; then £Lu for a second period 2l/v; then
 for a third period, and so on.
    It will have been observed that I have, in the last four para
 graphs, used the term impedance in a wider sense than in § 3,
 where it is the ratio of the amplitude of the impressed force
 to the amplitude of the flux produced at the place of impressed
 force when sufficient time has elapsed to allow the sinusoidal
state to be reached, when that is possible. The justification
for the extension of meaning is that, since in the non-distor-
 tional circuit of infinite length, or of finite length with a
terminal resistance to take the place of the infinite extension,
we have nothing to do with the frequency of alternations, or
with wailing to allow a special state to be established, it is
quite superfluous to adhere to the definition of the last sen
tence ; and we may enlarge it by saying that the impedance
of a combination is simply the ratio of the force to the flux,
when it happens to be a constant, which is very exceptional
indeed. I may add that R, L, K, and S need not be constants,
as in the above, to produce the propagation of waves without
tailing. All that is required is B/L = K/S, and Lu= constant;
so that R and L may be functions of x. The speed of the
current, and the rate of attenuation, now vary from one part
of the circuit to another.
    16. In conclusion, consider the application of the resistance-
operator to normal solutions. If we leave a combination to
itself without impressed force, it will subside to equilibrium
(when there is resistance) in a manner determined by the
normal distributions of electric and magnetic force, or of
charges of condensers and currents in coils ; a normal system
being, in the most extended sense, a system that, in subsiding,
remains similar to itself, the subsidence being represented by
the time-factor e^', where p is a root of the equation Z = 0. It
is true that each part of the combination will usually have a
distinct resistance-operator ; but the resistance-operators of
all parts involve, and are contained in, the same characteristic
function, which is merely the Z of any part cleared of frac
tions. It is sometimes useful to remember that we should
clear of fractions, for the omission to do so may lead to the
neglect of a whole series of roots ; but such cases are excep
tional and may be foreseen ; whilst the employment of a
resistance-operator rather than the characteristic function is
of far greater general utility, both for ease of manipulation
and for physical interpretation.
   Given a combination containing energy and left to itself, it
is upon the distribution of the energy that the manner of sub
sidence depends, or upon the distribution of the electric and
                              2 L 2

500             Mr. 0. Heaviside on Resistance
magnetic forces in those parts of the system where the per
mittivity and the inductivity are finite, or are reckoned finite
for the purposes of calculation. Thus conductors, if they be
not also dielectric, have only to be considered as regards the
magnetic force, whilst in a dielectric we must consider both
the electric and the magnetic force. [The failure of Max
well's general equations of propagation arises from the impos
sibility of expressing the electric energy in terms of his
potential function. The variables should always be capable
of expressing the energy.] Now the internal connexions of a
system determine what ratios the variables chosen should
bear to one another in passing from place to place in order
that the resultant system should be normal ; and a constant
multiplier will fix the size of the normal system. Thus, sup
posing u and w are the normal functions of potential-difference
and current, which are in most problems the most practical
variables, the state of the whole system at time t will be
represented by
                     V = 2Am6"<, C = 2A«>eP'; . . . (46)
V being tho real potential-difference at a place where the
 corresponding normal potential-difference is u, and C the
real current where the normal current is w, the summation
 extending over all the p roots of the characteristic equation.
 The size of the systems, settled by the A's (one for each p)
are to be found by the conjugate property of the vanishing of
the mutual energy-difference of any pair ofp systems, applied
to the initial distributions of V and 0.
    17. To find the effect of impressed force is a frequently
recurring problem in practical applications ; and here the
 resistance-operator is specially useful, giving a general solu
 tion of great simplicity. Thus, suppose we insert a steady
 impressed force e at a place where the resistance-operator is
 Z, producing e=ZG thereafter. Find C in terms of e and Z.
 The following demonstration appears quite comprehensive.
 Convert the problem into a case of subsidence first, by sub
 stituting a condenser of permittance S, and initial charge Se,
 for the impressed force. By making S infinite later we arrive
 at the effect of the steady e. In getting the subsidence solu
 tion we have only to deal with the energy of the condenser,
 so that a knowledge of the internal connexions of the system
 is quite superfluous.
    The resistance-operator of the condenser being (Sp)_l. that
 of the combination, when we use the condenser, is Z\, where
                    '    Z1 = (Sp)-' + Z                    (47)
 Let V and C be the potential-difference and the current,

                     and Conductance Operators.                    501
 respectively, at time t after insertion of the condenser, and due
 entirely to its initial charge. Equations (46) above express
 them, if n and ic have tbo special ratio proper at the condenser,
 given by                   w=-Spu,                               (48)
because the current equals the rate of decrease of its charge.
 Initially, we have e=%Au and 2An' = 0. So, making use of
the conjugate property*, we have
                        Seu=2(Up-T„)A,                            (49)
if Up be the electric and Tp the magnetic energy in the normal
system. But the following property of the resistance-operator
is also true *,                        ,7
                          Tp-Vp=^;                                (50)
that is, dZJdp is the impulsive inductance in the p system at
a place where tbe resistance-operator is Z1; p being a root of
 Zi=0 ; just as dZx\dp withp = 0 is the impulsive inductance
(complete) at the same place. Using (50) in (49) gives
                 A       (S,u)-(Ws^|)                             (51)
Now use (48) in (51) and insert the resulting A in the second
of (46), and there results
                            C = 2P?^                              (52>
where the accent means differentiation to p. This is the com
plete subsidence solution. Now increase S infinitely, keeping
e constant. Zj ultimately becomes Z ; but, in doing so, one
root of Zx = 0 becomes zero. We have, by (47), and remem
bering that Zx = 0,
                pZ,'=-(S^)-1-rpZ'=Z+;)Z'; . . . (53)
so, when S = c© and Z = 0, we have pZJ=pZ' for all roots ex
cept the one just mentioned, in which case ;> tends to zero and
Z' is finite, making in the limit pZ1' = 7JQ, by (53), where Z0 is
the p = 0 value of Z, or the steady resistance. Therefore,
final7'                C=£+2,V'>                                  w
where the summation extends over the roots of Z = 0, shows
the manner of establishment of the current by the impressed
force e. The use of this equation (54), even in comparatively
elementary problems, leads to a considerable saving of labour,
whilst in cases involving partial differential equations it is
invaluable*. To extend it to show the rise of the current at
       » « On the Self-induction of Wires," Phil. Mag. Oct. 1886.

 502          On Resistance and Conductance Operators.
 any other part of the system than where the impressed force
 is, it is necessary to know the connexions, so that we may
 know the ratio of the current in a normal system at the new
 place to that at the old ; inserting this ratio in the summa
 tion, and modifying the external Z0 to suit the new place,
 furnishes the complete solution there. Or, use the more
general resistance-operator Z^, such that ex = Z1,Cy, connect
ing the impressed force at any place x with the current at
another place y.
    18. When the initial current is zero, as happens when there
is self-induction without permittance at the place of e, and in
 other cases, (54) gives
                           z^ = 2^zr;                              <55)
showing that the normal systems may be imagined to be
arranged in parallel, the resistance of any one being (—j»Z').
    To express the impulsive inductance Z0' in terms of the
normal Z's, multiply (54) by e and take the complete time-
integral. We obtain
              je(C-|^=2(U-T) = -2-^,,                         . .   (56)
remembering (29).         Or, using (26),
    In electrostatic problems the roots of Z=0 are real and
negative, as is also the case in electromagnetic problems.
There are never any oscillatory results in either case, and the
vanishing of Z' is then accompanied by vanishing of the cor
responding normal functions, to prevent the oscillations whicb
seem on the verge of occurring by the repetition of a root
which Z' = 0 implies. When both energies are present, the
real parts of the imaginary roots are always compelled to be
negative by the positivity of U, T, and of Q the dissipativity.
    When Z is irrational, it is probable that the complete solu
tion corresponding to (54) might be immediately derived
from Z. In tbe case of (41), however, the application is not
obvious, although there is no difficulty in passing from the
(54) solution to the corresponding definite integrals which
arise when the length of the circuit is infinitely increased.
   October 15, 1887.
   » In Part III. of " On the Self-induction of Wires" I employed the
Condenser Method, with application to a special kind of combination ;
but, as we have seen from the above proof, (54) is true for any electro
static and electromagnetic combination provided it be finite.

                                [   503   ]
 LXTII. On the Division of Space with Minimum Partitioned
               Area. By Sir William Thomson*.
 1. rTVHIS problem is solved in foam, and the solution is
      J- interestingly seen in the multitude of film-enclosed
 cells obtained by blowing air through a tube into the middle
 of a soap-solution in a largo open vessel. I have been led to
 it by endeavours to understand, and to illustrate, Green's
 theory of " extraneous pressure " which gives, for light tra
 versing a crystal, Fresnel's wave-surface, with FresneTs sup
 position (strongly supported as it is by Stokes and Rayleigh)
 of velocity of propagation dependent, not on the distortion-
 normal, but on the line of vibration. It has been admirably
 illustrated, and some elements towards its solution beautifully
 realized in a manner convenient for study and instruction,
 by Plateau, in the first volume of his Statique des Liquides
 soumis aux seules Forces Moleculaires.
    2. The general mathematical solution, as is well known, i3
 that every interface between cells must have constant cur
 vature! throughout, and that where three or more interfaces
 meet in a curve or straight line their tangent-planes through
 any point of the line of meeting intersect at angles such that
 equal forces in these planes, perpendicular to their line of
 intersection, balance. The minimax problem would allow any
 number of interfaces to meet in a line ; but for a pure minimum
 it is obvious that not more than three can meet in a line, and
 that therefore, in the realization by the soap-film, the equi
 librium is necessarily unstable if four or more surfaces meet
 in a line. This theoretical conclusion is amply confirmed by
 observation, as we see at every intersection of films, whether
 interfacial in the interior of groups of soap-bubbles, large or
 small, or at the outer bounding-surface of a group, never more
 than three films, but, wherever there is intersection, always
just three films, meeting in a line. The theoretical conclusion
as to the angles for stable equilibrium (or pure minimum
solution of the mathematical problem) therefore becomes,
simply, that every angle of meeting of film-surfaces is exactly
 120°
    3. The rhombic dodecahedron is a polyhedron of plane sides
between which every angle of meeting is 120°; and space can
   * Communicated by the Author.
   t By " curvature " of a surface I mean sum of curvatures in mutually
perpendicular normal sections at any point ; not Gauss's " curvatura
Integra," which is the product of the curvature iu the two " principal
normal sections," or sections of greatest and least curvature. (See
Thomson and Tait's ' Natural Philosophy,' part i. §§ 130, 136.)

504           Sir W. Thomson on the Division of Space
be filled -with (or divided into) equal and similar rhombic
dodecahedrons. Hence it might seem that the rhombic
dodecahedron is the solution of our problem for the case
of all the cells equal in volume, and every part of the boundary
of the group either infinitely distant from the place considered,
or so adjusted as not to interfere with the homogeneousness
of the interior distribution of cells. Certainly the rhombic
dodecahedron is a solution of the minimax, or equilibrium-
problem ; and certain it is that no other plane-sided poly
hedron can be a solution.
    4. But it has seemed to me, on purely theoretical con
sideration, that the tetrahedral angles of the rhombic dodeca
hedron*, giving, when space is divided into such figures,
twelve plane films meeting in a point (as twelve planes from
the twelve edges of a cube meeting in the centre of the cube)
are essentially unstable. That it is so is proved experi
mentally by Plateau (vol. i. § 182, fig. 71) in his well-known
beautiful experiment with his cubic skeleton frame dipped in
soap-solution and taken out. His fig. 71 is reproduced here in
fig. 1. Instead of twelve plane films stretched inwards from
the twelve edges and meeting in the centre of the cube, it
shows twelve films, of which eight are slightly curved and four
are planef, stretched from the twelve edges to a small central
plane quadrilateral film with equal curved edges and four
angles each of 109° 28'. Each of the plane films is an
isosceles triangle with two equal curved sides meeting at
a corner of the central curvilinear square in a plane perpen
dicular to its plane. It is in the plane through an edge and
the centre of the cube. The angles of this plane curvilinear
triangle are respectively 109° 28', at the point of meeting of
the two curvilinear sides : and each of the two others half of
this, or 54° 44'.
    5. I find that by blowing gently upon the Plateau cube
into any one of the square apertures through which the little
central quadrilateral film is seen as a line, this film is caused
   * The rhombic dodecahedron has six tetrahedral angles and eight tri
hedral angles. At each tstrahedral angle the plane faces cut one another
successively at 120J, while each is perpendicular to the one remote from
it; and the angle between 8ucce:aive edges is cos-1i, or 70° 32'. The
obtuse angles (109° 28') of the rhombs meet in the trihedral angles of the
solid figure. The whole figure may be regarded as composed of six square
pyramids, each with its alternate slant faces perpendicular to one another,
placed on six squares forming the sides of a cube. The long diagonal
of each rhombic face thus made up of two sides of pyramids conterminous
in the short diagonal, is V2 times the short diagonal.
   t I see it inadvertently stated by Plateau that all the twelve films are
" legerement courbees,"

                 with Minimum Partitioned Area.                   505
to contract. If I stop blowing before                  Fig. 1-
it contracts to a point, it springs back
to its primitive size and shape. If I
blow still very gently bnt for a little
more time, the quadrilateral contracts
to a point, and the twelve films meeting
in it immediately draw out a fresh little
quadrilateral film similar to the former,
but in a plane perpendicular to its plane
and to the direction of the blast. Thus,
again and again, may the films be trans
formed so as to render the little central
curvilinear square parallel to one or
 other of the three pairs of square aper
tures of the cubic frame. Thus we
see that the twelve plane films meeting
in the centre of the cube is a configura
tion of unstable equilibrium which may
be fallen from in three different ways.
    6. Suppose now space to be filled
with equal and similar ideal rhombic
 dodecahedrons. Draw the short diagonal of every rhombic
face, and fix a real wire (infinitely thin and perfectly stiff)
 along each. This fills space with Plateau cubic frames.
 Fix now, ideally, a very small rigid globe at each of the
 points of space occupied by tetrahedral angles of the dodeca
 hedrons, and let the faces of the dodecahedrons be realized by
soap-films. They will be in stable equilibrium, because of the
little fixed globes ; and the equilibrium would be stable without
the rigid diagonals which we require only to help the imagina
tion in what follows. Let an exceedingly small force, like
gravity*, act on all the films everywhere perpendicularly to
one set of parallel faces of the cubes. If this force is small
 enough it will not tear away the films from the globes ; it
 will only produce a very slight bending from the plane
 rhombic shape of each film. Now annul the little globes.
 The films will instantly jump (each set of twelve which meet
 in a point) into the Plateau configuration (fig. 1), with the
 little curve-edged square in the plane perpendicular to the
 determining force, which may now be annulled, as we no
 longer require it. The rigid edges of the cubes may also be
 now annulled, as we have done with them also ; because each
 is (as we see by symmetry) pulled with equal forces in oppo
 site directions, and therefore is not required for the equi-
    * To do for every point of meeting of twelve films what is done by
 blowing in the experiment of § 5.

506           Sir W. Thomson on the Division of Space
librium, and it is clear that the equilibrium is stable without
them*.
   * The corresponding two-dimensional problem is much more easily
imagined; and may probably be realized by aid of moderately simple
appliances.
   Between a level surface of snap-solution and a horizontal plate of glass
fixed at a centimetre or two above it, imagine vertical film-partitions to
be placed along the sides of the squares indicated in the drawing (fig. 2) :
                                      Fig. 2.
 these will rest in stable equilibrium if thick enough wires are fixed ver
 tically through the corners of the squares. Now draw away these wires
 downwards into the liquid: the equilibrium in the square formation
 becomes unstable, and the films instantly run into the hexagonal forma
 tion shown in the diagram ; provided the square of glass is provided with
 vertical walls (for which slips of wood are convenient), as shown in plan
 by the black border of the diagram. These walls are necessary to main
 tain the inequality of pull in different directions which the inequality of
 the sides of the hexagons implies. By inspection of the diagram we see
 that the pull is T/a per unit area on either of the pair of vertical walls
 which are perpendicular to the short sides of the hexagons ; and on either
 of the other pair of walls 2 cos 30° x T/a ; where T denotes the pull of the
 film per unit breadth, and a the side of a square in the original formation.
 Hence the ratio of the pulls per unit of area in the two principal directions
 is as 1 to 1-732.

                with Minimum Partitioned Area.                507
   7. We have now space divided into equal and similar tetra-
kaidecahedral cells by the soap-film ; each bounded by
   (1) Two small plane quadrilaterals parallel to one another ;
   (2) Four large plane quadrilaterals in planes perpendicular
to the diagonals of the small ones ;
   (3) Eight non-plane hexagons, each with two edges common
with the small quadrilaterals, and four edges common with
the large quadrilaterals.
   The films seen in the Plateau cube show one complete
small quadrilateral, four halves of four of the large quadri
laterals, and eight halves of eight of the hexagons, belonging
to six contiguous cells ; all mathematically correct in every
part (supposing the film and the cube-frame to be infinitely
thin). Thus we see all the elements required for an exact
construction of the complete tetrakaidecahedron. By making
a clay model of what we actually see, we have only to
complete a symmetrical figure by symmetrically completing
each half-quadrilateral and each half-hexagon, and putting
the twelve properly together, with the complete small quadri
lateral, and another like it as the far side of the 14-faced
figure. We thus have a correct solid model.
   8. Consider now a cubic portion of space containing a
large number of such cells, and of course a large but a
comparatively small number of partial cells next the boundary.
Wherever the boundary is cut by film, fix stiff wire ; and
remove all the film from outside, leaving the cubic space
divided stably into cells by films held out against their tension
by the wire network thus fixed in the faces of the cube. If
the cube is chosen with its six faces parallel to the three pairs
of quadrilateral films, it is clear that the resultant of the
whole pull of film on each face will be perpendicular to the
face, and that the resultant pulls on the two pairs of faces
parallel to pairs of the greater quadrilaterals are equal to one
another and less than the resultant pull on the pair of faces
parallel to the smaller quadrilaterals. Let now the last-
rnentioned pair of faces of the cube be allowed to yield to
the pull inwards, while the other two pairs are dragged out
wards against the pulls on them, so as to keep the enclosed
volume unchanged ; and let the wirework fixture on the faces
be properly altered, shrunk on two pairs of faces, and extended
on the other pair of faces, of the cube, which now becomes a
square cage with distance between floor and ceiling less than
the side of the square. Let the exact configuration of the
wire everywhere be always so adjusted that the cells through
out the interior remain, in their altered configuration, equal
and similar to one another. We may thus diminish, and if we

 508          Sir W. Thomson on the Division of Space
  please annul, the difference of pull per unit area on the. three
  pairs of sides of the cage. The respective shrinkage-ratio
  and extension-ratio, to exactly equalize the pulls per unit area
  on the three principal planes, (and therefore on all planes), are
  2-*, 2*, 2^, as is easily seen from what follows.
     9. While the equalization of pulls in the three principal
  directions is thus produced, work is done by the film on the
  moving wire- work of the cage, and the total area of film is
  diminished by an amount equal to W/T, if W denote the
  whole work done, and T the pull of the film per unit breadth.
  The change of shape of the cage being supposed to be per
  formed infinitely slowly, so that the film is always in equi
  librium throughout, the total area is at each instant a mini
  mum, subject to the conditions
     (1) That the volume of each cell is the given amount;
     (2) That every part of the wire has area edged by it ; and
     (3) That no portion of area has any free edge.
     10. Consider now the figure of the cell (still of course a
  tetrakaidecahedron) when the pulls in the three principal
  directions are equalized, as described in § 8. It must be
  perfectly isotropic in respect to these three directions. Hence
  the pair of small quadrilaterals must have become enlarged
  to equality with the two pairs of large ones, which must have
  become smaller in the deformational process described in
  § 8. Of each hexagon three edges coincide with edges of
  quadrilateral faces of one cell ; and each of the three others
  coincides with edges of three of the quadrilaterals of one of
  the contiguous cells. Hence the 36 edges of the isotropic
  tetrakaidecahedron are equal and similar plane arcs ; each of
  course symmetrical about its middle point. Every angle of
  meeting of edges is essentially 109° 28' (to make trihedral
  angles between tangent planes of the films meeting at 120°).
  Symmetry shows that the quadrilaterals are still plane
  figures ; and therefore, as each angle of each of them is
  109° 28', the change of direction from end to end of each arc-
  edge is 19° 28'. Hence each would be simply a circular arc
  of 19° 28', if its curvature were equal throughout ; and it
  seems from the complete mathematical investigation of §§ 16,
  17, 18 below, that it is nearly so, but not exactly so even to a
  first approximation.
     Of the three films which meet in each edge, in three
  adjacent cells, one is quadrilateral and two are hexagonal.
     11. By symmetry we see that there are three straight lines
  in each (non-plane) hexagonal film, being its three long dia
  gonals ; and that these three fines, and therefore the six
• angular points of the hexagon, are all in one plane. The arcs

                 with Minimum Partitional Area.                     509
composing its edges are not in this plane, bnt in planes making,
as we shall see (§ 12), angles of 54° 44' with it. For three
edges of each hexagon, the planes of the arcs bisect the angle
of 109° 28' between the planes of the six corners of contiguous
hexagons ; and for the other three edges are inclined on the
outside of its plane of corners, at angles equal to the supple
ments of the angles of 125° 16' between its plane of corners
and the planes of contiguous quadrilaterals.
    12. The planes of corners of the eight hexagons consti
tute the faces of an octahedron which we see, by symmetry,
must be a regular octahedron (eight equilateral triangles in
planes inclined 109° 28' at every common edge) . Hence these
planes, and the planes of the six quadrilaterals, constitute a
plane-faced tetrakaidecahedron obtained by truncating the six
corners * of a regular octahedron each to such a depth as to
reduce its eight original (equilateral triangular) faces to equi
lateral equiangular hexagons. An orthogonal projection of this
figure is shown in fig. 3. It is to be remarked that space
can be filled with such figures. For brevity we shall call it
a plane-faced isotropic tetrakaidecahedron.
    1 3. Given a model of the plane-faced isotropic tetrakaideca
hedron, it is easy to construct approximately a model of the
minimal tetrakaidecahedron, thus :—Place on each of the six
square faces a thin plane disk having the proper curved arcs of
19° 28' for its edges. Draw the three long diagonals of each
hexagonal face. Fill up by little pieces of wood, properly cut,
the three sectors of 60° from the centre to the overhanging
                 Fig. 3.                             Fig. 4.
edges of the adjacent quadrilaterals. Hollow out symmetrically
the other three sectors, and the thing is done. The result is
shown in orthogonal projection, so far as the edges are con
cerned, in fig. 4 ; and as the orthogonal projections are equal
and similar on three planes at right angles to one another,
   * This figure (but with probably indefinite extents of the truncation)
is given in books on mineralogy as representing a natural crystal of red
oxide of copper.

510          Sir W. Thomson on the Division of Space
this diagram suffices to allow a perspective drawing from any
point of view to be made by " descriptive geometry."
    14. No shading could show satisfactorily the delicate cur
vature of the hexagonal faces, though it may be fairly well
seen on the solid model made as described in § 12. But it is
shown beautifully, and illustrated in great perfection, by
making a skeleton model of 36 wire arcs for the 36 edges
of the complete figure, and dipping it in soap solution to
fill the faces with film, which is easily done for all the faces
but one. The curvature of the hexagonal film on the two
sides of the plane of its six long diagonals is beautifully shown
by reflected light. I have made these 36 arcs by cutting
two circles, 6 inches diameter, of stiff wire, each into 18 parte
of 20° (near enough to 19° 28'). It is easy to put them
together in proper positions and solder the corners, by aid of
simple devices for holding the ends of the three arcs together
in proper positions during the soldering. The circular cur
vature of the arcs is not mathematically correct, but the error
due to it is, no doubt, hardly perceptible to the eye.
    15. But the true form of the curved edges of the quadri
lateral plane films, and of the non-plane sufaces of the hexa
gonal films, may be shown with mathematical exactness by
taking, instead of Plateau's skeleton cube, a skeleton square
cage with four parallel edges each 4 centimetres long: and
the other eight, constituting the edges of two squares each
                 Fig. 6.                          Fig. 6.
 ^/2 times as long, or 5'66 centim. Dipped in soap-solution
 and taken out it always unambiguously gives the central

                with Minimum Partitioned Area.               511
quadrilateral in the plane perpendicular to the four short
edges. It shows with mathematical accuracy (if we suppose
the wire edges infinitely thin) a complete quadrilateral, four
half-quadrilaterals, and four half-hexagons of the minimal
tetrakaidecahedron. The two principal views are represented
in figs. 5 and 6.
   16. The mathematical problem of calculating the forms of
the plane arc-edges, and of the curved surface of the hexa
gonal faces, is easily carried out to any degree of approxima
tion that may be desired ; though it would be very laborious,
and not worth the trouble, to do so further than a first ap
proximation, as given in § 17 below. But first let us state
the rigorous mathematical problem ; which by symmetry
becomes narrowed to the consideration of a 60° sector B C 13'
of our non-plane hexagon, bounded by straight lines C B, C B',
and a slightly curved edge B E B', in a plane, Q, through
                              Fig. 7.
B B', inclined to the plane B C B' at an angle of tan-1 V2, or
54° 44'. The plane of the curved edge I call Q, because it is
the plane of the contiguous quadrilateral. The mathematical
problem to be solved is to find the surface of zero curvature
edged by BOB' and cutting at 120° the plane Q all along the
intersectional curve (fig. 7). It is obvious that this problem is

512        Sir W. Thomson on the Division of Space
determinate and has only one solution. Taking C A for axis
of x ; and z perpendicular to the plane BOB': and regarding
z as a function of x, y, to be determined for finding the form
of the surface, we have, as the analytical expression of the
conditions
   ^l+£)-2** *                                 gx=Q . (1);
   dx1 \    dy1)     dx dy ax dy dyl \        dorJ           x '
and
               (>+S+y)>*-5"i)-*l                             m.
                                    when z=(a—x) ,/2 J
   17. The required surface deviates so little from the plane
BOB' that we get a good approximation to its shape by
neglecting dzP/dx*, dz/dx . dz/dy, and dz2/dy*, in (1) and (2),
which thus become
                          V'*=0                              (3),
and
     ~=            */§ =-094735, when x=a-z/^2,           .  (4),
Vs denoting {d/dxf + (d/dy)*. The general solution of (3),
in polar coordinates (r, $) for the plane {x, y), is
                 2(Acosm<£ + Bsin»n<f>)rm, .... (5)}
where A, B, and m are arbitrary constants. The symmetry
of our problem requires B=0, and m = 3. (28 + 1), where i is
any integer. We shall not take more than two terms. It
seems not probable that advantage could be gained by taking
more than two, unless we also fall back on the rigorous equa
tions (1) and (2), keeping dz^jdx1 &c. in the account, which
would require each coefficient A to be not rigorously constant
but a function of r. At all events we satisfy ourselves with
 the approximation yielded by two terms, and assume
                 z=Ar3cos 3<f> + A'r9cos9£      ....          (6);
 with two coefficients A, A' to be determined so as to satisfy
 (4) for two points of the curved edge, which, for simplicity,
we shall take as its middle, E (<f> = 0); and end, B (</> = 30°).
 Now remark that, as z is small, even at E, where it is
 greatest, we have, in (4), x=a or r=asec^. Thus, and
 substituting for dz/dx its expression in polar (r, <j>) coor
 dinates, which is
                     dz    dz     ,   dz . ,                  ,_,
                     dx^dr00**-^6™*' * * ¦ W>

                 with Minimum Partitional Area.                 513
we find, from (4) with (6),
      (by case £ = 0) A+ 3a6A' = -031578a-* . . . (8),
(and by case <j> = 30°) A - 694a"A' = '031578 . § . a"2 . (9) ;
whence
       A'= ~ i • 99r x -031578 . a"8 = - 9 x -0001735 . a~s
                                       = -•001561. a-8,
       A =i(3— §f) x -031578 . a-3 =209 x -0001735 . a"2
                                      = •036261. a- ;
and for required equation of the surface we have (taking
a=l for brevity)
       z=-03626 . r3 cos 30--OO1561 r» cos 90 )                   .
         = -03626. r3 (cos 30- -043. r* cos 90) J ' ' ( '*
   18. To find the equation of the curved edge BEB', take, as
in (4),
        x=l— Zy/2=1— £, where £ denotes                . . (11).
Substituting in this, for z, its value by (10), with for r its
approximate value sec 0, we find
   f = -L (-03626 sec3 0 cos 30--OO1561 sec9 0 cos 90) . (12)
       v *
as the equation of the orthogonal projection of the edge, on
the plane BCB', with
                  AN=y = tan0; and NP=£ . . . (13).
The diagram was drawn to represent this projection roughly,
as a circular arc, the projection on BCB' of the circular arc of
 20° in the plane Q, which, before making the mathematical
investigation, I had taken as the form of the arc-edges of the
plane quadrilaterals. This would give 1/35 of CA, for the
sagitta, AE ; which we now see is somewhat too great. The
equation (12), with y = 0, gives for the sagitta
                       AE = -0245xCA                           (14),
 or, say, 1/41 of CA. The curvature of the projection at any
 point is to be found by expressing sec3 0 cos 30 and sec8 0 cos 90
 in terms of y = tan0 and taking cP/dy'1 of the result.
    By taking y/(B/2) instead of x/{l/2) in (12), we have the
 equation of the arc itself in the plane Q.
    19. To judge of the accuracy of our approximation, let us
 find the greatest inclination of the surface to the plane BCB'.
 For the tangent of the inclination at (r, 0) we have
 (£ + ^^)4=-lO88-r2(l-2x-129.rSec60 + -129V2)* (15).
    Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 24. No. 151. Dec. 1887.          2M

   514         Sir W. Thomson on the Determination of
  The greatest values of this will be found at the curved bound
   ing edge, for which r == sec <j>. Thus we find
   j =-0948, and therefore inclination = 5° 25' at E J.
   1 =-1892,         „       „      „        = 10° 43' at B >
      Hence we see that the inaccuracy due to neglecting the
  square of the tangent of the inclination in the mathematical
  work cannot be large. The exact value of the inclination at
  E is tan-1 (—V 2) -120°, or 5° 16', which is less by 9' than
  its value by (16).
  LXIV. On the Application of the Deri-ampere or the Centi-
     ampere Balance to the Determination of the Electromotive
     Forces of Voltaic Cells. By Sir William Thomson, F.R.S.*
 THE method described in this paper for the determination,
         in absolute measure, of the electromotive forces of vol
 taic cells, consists in the use of one of my standard ampere-
 balances instead of the tangent-galvanometer in the method
 given in the following statement, which I quote from Kohl-
 rausch's ' Physical Measurements,' pp. 223, 224, 230:—" The
 only methods applicable to inconstant elements, of which the
 electromotive force varies with the current-strength, is to bring
 the current to zero by opposing an equal electromotive force.
 PoggendorfFs method, which is very convenient, as it involves
 no measurement of internal resistance, requires the use of a
 galvanoscope, G, a galvanometer, T, and a rheostat, R, and,
 in addition, that of an auxiliary battery, S, of constant electro
 motive force, greater than either of those which are to be
 compared. The arrangement of the experiment is shown in
the figure. In the left division of the
 circuit are the galvanoscope Gr, and
 the electromotive force E to be mea
sured ; in the right, the auxiliary
battery S and the galvanometer T.
E and S are so placed that their
similar poles are turned towards each
other. In the middle part of the cir-
 cuit, which is common to both batteries, is the rheostat R.
     " As much rheostat resistance W must now be intercalated
    * Communicated by the Author, being a paper read at the Manchester
Meeting of the British Association, with additions.

            the Electromotive Forces of Voltaic Cells.              515
as will cause the current in E G to vanish, and the current-
strength J in T must then be observed                   If J = current-
strength in T, the electromotive force of the battery E is
E=WJ."
   The deci-ampere balance, or, when a sufficient number of
battery-cells is available, the centi-ampere balance, answers
well for the current measurements here required. An arrange
ment of the circuit which is convenient for most purposes is
shown in the diagram (fig. 2) ; but it may be remarked that
                        STANDARD RESISTANCE
              |WWVVWWAAMWWVWVWVVVVi
               -CELL TESTED   ' MIRROR OF) QUADT ELECTR
                               l 4ALA.
                                                              i
                                        Hi
                                 Fig. 2.
the reversing-keys there shown may be replaced by ordinary
make-break keys. Referring to the diagram, a battery of a suf
ficient number of cells is joined in circuit through a reversing-
key with a rheostat, a deci-ampere balance, and a standard
resistance. The poles of the cell to be tested are connected in
circuit with a key and a sensitive mirror-galvanometer to the
two ends of the standard resistance in such a way that both
the battery and the cell to be tested tend to send a current in
the same direction through that resistance. Care should be
taken that the circuit of the cell to be tested is well insulated,
and that both it and the standard resistance are free from

 516     Determination of Electromotive Forces of Voltaic Cells.
 other electromotive force. When, as in the case of Clark-
 standard cells, the cell is incapable of maintaining a current,
 a high-resistance galvanometer or an additional resistance
 should be included in its circuit. If very great sensibility is
 not required, a quadrant-electrometer may in such cases be
 substituted for the galvanometer. The standard resistance
 must be of such a form that no sensible error is introduced
 through heating by the passage of the current. A good plan
 is to wind well-insulated platinoid wire in one layer on the
 outside of a brass or copper cylindrical vessel which can be
 filled with water. The temperature of the water, when it is
 nearly the same as that of the air outside, will be very ap
 proximately the temperature of the coil. For still greater
 accuracy the cylinder may be fitted with a jacket and im
 mersed in a vessel of water, and appliances introduced for
 changing the water in each part and keeping account of its
 temperature. For use with the deci-ampere balance, a pla
 tinoid resistance of two ohms is sufficient for any single cell.
 A resistance of two ohms, made of insulated platinoid wire one
 millimetre in diameter, and wound on a brass tube capable
 of holding half a litre of water and simply exposed to the air
 outside, will carry a current of one ampere for an hour with
 out changing its resistance more than a tenth per cent. The
 water should be stirred when the readings are taken, and, if
 necessary, the change of resistance can be approximately
 allowed for by taking its temperature. To measure by means
 of the deci-ampere balance an electromotive force of from
 one to two volts, a battery of two small secondary cells or four
 Daniell cells, a resistance of two ohms such as has just been
 described, with the other appliances as indicated in the figure,
 are all that is necessary.
    The method has been applied in my laboratory by Mr.
 Thomas Gray for the measurement of the electromotive forces
 of standard and other cells, and has been found very con
venient. The results obtained for four Clark-standard cells
set up by Mr. J. T. Bottomley in March last were almost
identical with one another, and gave 1*439 Rayleigh, or
l-442 legal, volts at 11° C. The variation of the electro
motive force of these cells with temperature has not yet been
determined ; but assuming the average value obtained for this
variation by Lord Rayleigh, namely a fall of "077 per cent,
per degree centigrade rise of temperature, and correcting to
15° C, we obtain slightly under 1'436 Rayleigh volts at that
temperature. This result is interesting as showing a difference
of less than -j^th per cent, from that obtained by Lord Rayleigh
for similar cells, which was T435 at 15° C.

                              [   517    ]
               LXV. Notices respecting New Books.
A Treatise on the Integral Calculus.—Part I. Containing an
   elementary account of Elliptic Integrals and applications to Plane
   Curves, with numerous Examples. By Ralph A. Robebts, M.A.
   Dublin: Hodges, 1387; pp. viii + 368.
]\/TR. ROBERTS, who has written a number of papers on subjects
       intimately connected with the Calculus, has now embodied some
of these results, with the necessary elementary details, in the present
treatise. He has not seen fit to introduce his work to his readers
with any forewords, so we are left to infer that he considers such
a work is required to meet a want not met by existing treatises.
The contents, so far, do not differ materially from those of Dr.
"Williamson's treatise, but the treatment is. different, and the illus
trations and examples are very full and important. The main
difference is in the amount of space (Chapter v.) devoted to the
discussion of Elliptic Integrals ; here our author is specially strong.
"We have noticed but few typographical or other errors, and as the
whole discussion is admirably conducted throughout, we need only
append the headings of the chapters. These are :—Elementary
Integrals, Integration of Rational Functions, Integration by Ration
alization, Integration by Successive Reduction, Elliptic Integrals,
Definite Integrals, Areas of Plane Curves, and Rectification of
Plane Curves. From the titlepage we gather that at least another
volume is to follow. The book is of handy form and clearly
printed.
          LXVI. Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
INFLUENCE OF MAGNETISM ON THE THERMOELECTRIC BEHAVIOUR
        OF BISMUTH. BY DR. GIOVANNI PIETRO GRIMALDI.
THE remarkable influence which magnetism exerts on the elec
       trical resistance of bismuth led me to suppose that it would
not be uninteresting to investigate whether the thermoelectric be
haviour of bismuth in the magnetic field was different to what it is
usually.
    In this preliminary note I give the results hitherto obtained.
The experiment was made as follows :—A cylinder of bismuth, 5
centim. in length and 1 centim. in diameter, with copper wires sol
 dered at the ends, was placed equatorially between the poles of a
 Faraday's electromagnet. The solderings were immersed in two
 baths of such a form that they could be close to the poles of the
 magnet. One of the baths was full of melting snow, and the other
 of water at the ordinary temperature, which flowed from a large
 reservoir.
    The bismuth-copper couple was introduced into a circuit of cop
per wire of about 2 inillim. in diameter, which remained constant.
In this circuit two copper-wire couples of about the same E.M.F.
as the couple under experiment were arranged in opposition. The
circuit also contained a "Wiedemann's galvanometer (Edelmann's

518            Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
large pattern) astaticized as completely as possible, and whose coils
were of greatest sensitiveness for thermoelectric currents. The
deflections were read with a telescope on a scale a metre in length
divided in millimetres, and arranged at a distance of about two
metres from the mirror of the galvanometer.
    The current due to the difference between the electromotive force
of the bismuth-copper couple and the compensating-couple was
so weak as to produce a deflection of a few centimetres only in
the scale of the telescope ; but either of the batteries would have
sent the spot of light off the scale.
    The galvanometer was at a distance of about twenty metres from
the electromagnet.
    By means of two keys, one in the thermoelectric circuit A and
 one in the magnetizing current B, arranged near the telescope,
 either of the two circuits could be opened or closed.
    Opening first the circuit A, I investigated the influence of the
 electromagnet on the galvanometer, which, notwithstanding the
 distance of the two apparatus, was sufficiently apparent, and then
 tried the position at which the least action was exerted. It was
 thus found that the deflection of the needle when the electromagnet
 was excited was only two millim. It remained constant for the
 entire duration of the experiment. This was made as follows.
    The galvanometer being at zero, the circuit A was first closed ;
 then the circuit B was opened, and the deflection of the galvano
 meter read off (first reading). Then A was opened to avoid
 induction-currents, which, notwithstanding the most minute pre
 cautions, were sufficiently apparent ; then B was closed, and imme
 diately afterwards A, to make the second reading ; then A being
 opened, and afterwards B, A was again closed, and the third read
 ing made. Lastly, it was ascertained if the needle returned to zero
 of the scale, those experiments being rejected in which this was
 not the case. The difference between the second reading and
 the mean of the first and third, which generally were but little
 different, corrected for the above-mentioned influence of the elec
 tromagnet on the galvanometer, measured the intensity of the
 phenomenon I investigated. Many measurements were lost owing
 to the action on the galvanometer of carriages passing in the
 neighbouring street, an influence which made itself more felt when
 the galvanometer was arranged in a room of the laboratory, than
 when it was on the first floor in the courtyard.
    With a magnetizing current of twelve Bunsen's elements, freshly
 filled, the following result was obtained :—The thermoelectric force
 of bismuth with respect to copper was considerably weakened by mag
 netism ; the difference between the second reading and the mean of
 the first and third, which, as mentioned above, measured the inten
sity of the said diminution, amounted ultimately to 45 millim. of
 the scale.
    In order to be certain that the phenomenon observed was solely
due to the influence in question, and was not caused by any dis
turbing influences, I made the following experiment.
    Adjusting both the solderings of the bismuth-copper couple to

              Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.           519
zero, so as to annul the electromotive force, I left the bismuth
cylinder in the same position as before between the poles of the
electromagnet, and then weakened the compensating-pile so as to
have in the circuit a current of about the same intensity as in the
first experiment. Experimenting then as in the first case, I found
that the magnetism exerted no influence on the intensity of the
thermoelectric current.
  In these preliminary experiments I made no measurements which
would enable me to give definite values of the variation found. In
order to furnish an approximate idea, I may mention that in the
conditions in which 1 experimented the diminution of the thermo
electric electromotive force was about -fa. The variations in ques
tion are perhaps of the same order of magnitude as those found by
Eighi for the electrical resistance.
   In a more complete investigation of the phenomenon, which I
hope presently to carry out, I shall examine the relation between
the intensity of the magnetic field and the thermoelectric power of
pure and commercial bismuth in various states of aggregation, and
of the alloys of bismuth.
   I propose to make an analogous investigation on antimony.—
Rendiconti delta R. Accademia dei Lincei, February 1887.
      ON THE ACTION OF LIGHT ON A MIXTUEE OF HTDBOGEN
               AND CHLORINE. BY E. PRINGSHEIM.
   The author sums up as follows the results of his investigation: —
   (1) The proof attempted by Bunsen and Roscoe that in the
photochemical combination of chlorine and hydrogen, an amount of
work is done by light for which an equivalent quantity of light
disappears does not hold. The proof for that assertion lies in the
fact that the quantity of the hydrochloric acid formed is propor
tional to the intensity of the light.
   (2) The first apparent action of light on chlorine and hydrogen
consists in a sudden increase of volume of the gaseous mixture,
which as suddenly disappears ; the magnitude of this increase is
proportional to the intensity of the acting light, but is independent
of the condition of the induction and of the quantity of hydro
chloric acid formed.
   (3) This sudden increase of volume is produced by a sudden
dissociation of the molecules, which goes on at the moment of
chemical change.
   (4) In this, no hydrochloric acid is formed in the first case, but
an intermediate substance.
   (5) The slow formation of hydrochloric acid by light takes place
solely with moist chlorine and hydrogen ; dry gas is not affected by
light which is not very intense.
   (6) Under the influence of strong sources of light or great heat,
dry hydrogen and chlorine gases explode as well as moist.
   (7) The intermediate product which the photochemical indica
tion produces, and the assumption of which completely explains
this phenomenon, arises very probably from decomposii ion of
aqueous vapour.—"Wiedemann's Annalen, November 1887.

                                     [ 520 ]
                   INDEX to VOL. XXIV.
ADAMS Prize for 1889, subject for         Bunsen's ice-calorimeter, on an ad
   the, 142.                                dition to, 214.
.(Ether, on the relative motion of the    Burbury (S. H.) on the diffusion of
   earth and the luminiferous, 449.         gases, 471.
Air, on the electrostatic force required  Burton (C. V.) on the "dimensions'"
   to produce sparks in, 10G ; on the       of temperature in length, mass,
   transmission of electrical currents      and time, and on an absoluteC.G .S.
   in, 374.                                 unit of temperature, 96; on the
Amagat (E.-H.) on the solidification        value of " y for a perfect gas, 166.
   of liquids by pressure, 446.           Callaway (Dr. C.) on the conversion
Atmospheric electricity, observations       of crystalline schists into igneous
   on, 143.                                 rocks, 218.
Ayrton (Prof. W. E.) on beams fixed       Calorimeter, on an addition to Bun-
   at the ends, 245.                        sen's ice-, 214.
Batelli (A.) on the Thomson effect,       Capacities, note on comparing, 233.
   295.                                   Carbon, on the existence of, in the
Battery, on a new voltaic, 447.             sun, 310.
Beams fixed at the ends, note on, 245.    Chalk valleys, on the origin of drv,
Biordinals, on binomial, 249.                137.
Bismuth, on the influence of mag          Chattock (A. P.) on a magnetic po
   netism on the thermoelectric be          tentiometer, 94.
   haviour of, 517.                       Chemistry, on integral weights in,
Boltzmann (Prof.) on the action of          318.
   magnetism on electrical discharges     Chlorine, on the action of light on a
   in dilute gases, 373.                     mixture of hydrogen and, 519.
Bonney (Dr. T. Q.) on some of the         Chree (C.) on the conduction of heat
   older rocks of Brittany, 139.            in liquids, 1.
Books, new:—Edgeworth's Metre-            Clouds, on the cause of iridescence
   tike, 134; Lunge's Coal-Tar and           in, 87, 422.
   Ammonia, 367 ; Roberts's Treatise      Coal-seams, on the formation of, 289 ;
  on the Integral Calculus, 517.             on boulders found in, 291.
Borgniann (J.) on the transmission        Cobalt, on magnetic circular polari
   of electrical currents in air, 374.       zation in, 445.
Bosanquet (R. II. M.) on sequences        Cockle (Sir J.) on binomial biordi
   of reversals, 60 ; on changes in the     nals, 249.
   torsion of a wire by change of tem     Collie (Dr. N.) on the action of heat
   perature, 160.                           on the salts of triethylbenzylphos-
Bottomley (J. T.) on expansion and          phonium, 27.
   contraction with change of tempe       Conductance operators, on, 479.
   rature in wires under stress, 314.     David (T. W.) on glacial action in
Boys (C. V.) on an addition to Bun-         the Carboniferous and Hawkesbury
   sen's ice-calorimeter, 214.              series, N. S. VV., 135.
Buchanan (J.) on hot gases as con         Davison (C.) on the relation between
   ductors of electricity, 297.             the size of a planet and the rate of

                                     INDEX.                                   521
   mountain-building on its surface,      Fitzpatriek (T. C.) on the action of
   304.                                      the solvent in electrolytic conduc
Derby (O. A.) on nepheline rocks in          tion, 378.
   Brazil, 287.                           Fluid motion, on the stability of, 188,
Diffusion, on tbe, of gases, 471.            272.
Dissociation, on, 190.                    Foster's (Prof. C.) method of mea
Du Bois (H. E. J. G.) on magnetic            suring the mutual induction of two
   circular polarization in cobalt and       coils, note on, 85.
   nickel, 445.                           Gas, on the value of " y " for a per
Dufour (11.) on hygronietric sub             fect, 100.
   stances, 21X5.                         Gases, on the electrostatic force re
Earth, on the secular cooling of the,        quired to produce sparks in, 100 ;
   in relation to mountain-building,         on the electrification of, by ignited
   212 ; on the theory of the contrac        bodies, 224 ; on hot, as conductors
   tion of a solid, 301 ; on the relative    of electricity, 207 ; on the action
  motion of the, and the luminiferous        of magnetism on electrical dis
  iether, 440.                               charges in dilute, 373 ; on the dif
Edge-north (F. Y.) on reducing ob            fusion of, 471.
   servations relating to several quan    Geitel (H.) on the electrification of
   tities, 222 ; on the choice of means,     gases by ignited bodies, 224.
   268 ; on the empirical proof of the    Geological Societv, proceedings of
   law of error, .'530.                     the, 135, 217, 282.
Edlund (Prof. E.) on the theory of        Glacial period, on the, with reference
   unipolar induction, 401.                  to the antiquity of man, 284.
Elastance, definition of, 70.             Glaciation of Norway, on the pro
Elastivity, definition of, 79.               bable amount of former, 130.
Electric field in the neighbourhood       Goosens (B. J.) on the melting-point
   of a spherical bowl, on the poten         of ice at pressures under one atmo
  tial of the, 38.                           sphere, 205.
Electrical currents in air, on the        Gray (Prof. A.) on the steady flow
  transmission of, 374.                      of electricity in a network of con
Electricity, on atmospheric, 143; on         ductors, 278.
  the steady flow of, in a network of     Gresley (\V. 8.) on the formation of
   conductors, 278 ; on hot gases as        coal-seams, 289.
  conductors of, 207.                     Grimaldi (Dr. G. P.) on the influence
Electrolytic conduction, on the action       of magnetism on the thermoelec
  of the solvent in, 378.                   tric behaviour of bismuth, 517.
Electromotive forces, on the occur        Griinwald (Prof. A.) on the spectrum
  rence of, in metal plates traversed        of water-vapour and the line-
   by a current of heat while placed in               of hydrogen and oxygen,
  the magnetic field, 201 ; of voltaic
  cells, on the application of the        Hall's phenomenon, observations on,
  deci-ampere or the centi-ampere            201.
  balance to determine the, 614.          Heat, on the conduction of, in liquids,
Elsden (J. V.) on the southern por           1 ; on the action of, on the salts of
  tion of the Wealden area, 290.            triethylbenzylphosphonium, 27 ; on
Elster (J.) on the electrification of       a polar action of magnetism on,
  gases by ignited bodies, 224.             309.
Error, on the empirical proof of the      Heaviside (O.) on the self-induction
  law of, 330.                              of wires, 03 ; on resistance and
Ettingshausen (A. von) on electro           conductance operators, 479.
  motive forces in metal plates tra       Hill (Rev. E.) on the rocks of Sark,
  versed by a current of heat while         Herm, and Jethou, 141.
  placed in the magnetic field,201 ,309.  Hill (W.) on the lower part of the
Evaporation, on, 190.                       Upper Cretaceous series in West
Fisher (Rev. 0.) on the theory of the       Suffolk and Norfolk, 285.
  contraction of a solid earth, 301.      Ilolden (C. L.) on the existence of
    Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 24. No.         151. Bee. 1887.              2 N

5±2                                  INDEX.
    certain elements and discovery of     Liquid, on the propagation oflaminar
    platinum in the sun, 325.                motion through a turbulently mo
Hudlestun (W. H.) on the Walton              ving inviscid, 342.
    Common section, 221.                  Liquids, on the conduction of heat
Hughes (Prof. T. M'K.) on the an             in, 1; on a method of observing
    cient beach and boulders near            the action of magnets on, 370 : on
    Braunton and Crovde in North             the solidification of, by pressure,
    Devon, 289.                              440.
Hunt (Dr. T. S.) on integral weights      Lyons (II. G.) on the London Clay
    in Chemistry, 318.                       and Bagshot Beds of Aldershot,
Hutchins (C. C.) on a new photo              220.
    graphic spectroscope, 223; on         McConnel (J. C.) on the cause of
    oxygen in the sun, 302 ; on the          iridescence in clouds, 422.
    existence of carbon in the sun, 310 ; Magnetic circular polarization in co
    on the existence of certain elements     balt and nickel, on, 445.
    and discovery of platinum in the              potentiometer, on a, 94.
    sun, 325.                             Magnetism, on a polar action of, on
Hutton (Capt. F. W.) on the erup              heat, 309 ; on the action of, on elec
    tion of Mount Tarawera, 136.              trical discharges in dilute gases,
Hydrogen, on the line-spectrum of,            373; on the influence of, on the
     354 ; on the dissociation of, in the     thermoelectrical behaviour of bis
     sun's atmosphere, 305; on the            muth, 51 7.
     action of light on a mixture of, and  Magnetization, note on, GO ; on an
     chlorine, 519.                           experimental determination of the
 I Ivgrometric substances, on, 290.           work of, 144.
 Ice, on the melting-point of, at pres     Magnets, on a method of observing
     sures under one atmosphere, 295.          the action of, on liquids, 370.
 Induction, on a method of measuring       Man, on the glacial period with refer
     the mutual, of two coils, 85 ; on        ence to the antiquity of, 284.
     methods of determining coefficients   Martin (J.) on the terraces of Roto-
     of self- and mutual, 225; on the         mahana, New Zealand, 135.
     theory of unipolar, 401.              Matter, on the transition of, from the
 Iridescence, on the cause of, in clouds,      gaseous to the liquid state, 190.
     87,422.                               Michelson (A. A.) on the relative
 Iron, on raising, under temporary             motion of the earth and the lumi-
     stress or permanent strain to a          niferous tether, 449; on the wave
     bright red heat, 250, 435; on the         length of sodium as the standard
     working of, at high temperatures,         of length, 463.
     207.                                  Molecular force, on the law of, 113,
 Jukes-Brown (A. J.) on the lower              108.
     part of the Upper Cretaceous series    Morehead (S. T.) on a method of
     in West Suffolk and Norfolk, 285.         observing the action of magnets on
  Kleiber (J.) on " random scattering "        liquids, 376.
     of points on a surface, 439.           Morley (E. W.) on the relative mo
  Koto (B.) on some occurrences of             tion of the earth and the lumini-
      piedmontite-schist in Japan, 280.        ferous sether, 449; on the wave
  Kruseman (Dr. J. N.) on the poten            length of sodium as the standard
      tial of the electric field in the        of length, 463.
      neighbourhood of a spherical bowl,    Mountain-building, on the secular
      38.                                      cooling of the earth in relation to,
  Liebig (Dr. G. A.) on the electro            212; on the relation between size
      static force required to produce          of a planet and the rate of, on its
      sparks in air and other gases, 100.       surface, 394.
  Light, on the action of, on a mixture     Nahrwold (R.J on atmospheric elec
      of hydrogen and chlorine, 519.           tricity, 143.
  Lightning, on protection against, 294.    Nepheline rocks, on, in Brazil, 287.

                                    INDEX.                                 523
Nernst (W.) on electromotive forces       Recalescence of iron, on the, 204.
  in metal plates traversed by a cur      Reid (C.) on the origin of dry chalk
  rent of heat while placed in the           valleys, 137.
  magnetic field, 201.                    Resistance operators, on, 470.
Newall (H. F.) on peculiarities in        Reversals, on sequences of, CO.
  iron and steel at a bright red heat,    Rimington (E. C.) on a method for
  435.                                       measuring the coefficient of self-
Nickel, on magnetic circular polari          induction, 54; on comparing ca
   zation in, 445.                           pacities, 238.
Niven ( Prof. C. ) on methods of de       River, on a broad, flowing down mi
  termining coefficients of self-induc       inclined plane bed, 272.
  tion and mutual induction, 225.         Rocks, on the structure of some, 130,
Oxygen in the sun, on, 302 ; on the          217.
  line-spectrum of, 354.                  Rowe (Rev. A. W.) on the rocks of
Permittance, definition of, 70.              the Essex drift, 282.
Permittivity, definition of, 70.          Rutley (F.) on the rocks of the
Perry (Prof. J.) on beams fixed at           Malvern Hills, 217.
  the ends, 245.                          Schilling (G. A.) on an experimental
Platinum in the sun, on the dis              determination of the work of mag
  covery of, 325.                            netization, 144.
Polarimeters, on twin prisms for, 307.    Self-induction, on a method for mea
Polarization, on magnetic circular, in       suring the coefficient of, 64; of
  cobalt and nickel, 445.                    wires, on the, 03.
Potential of the electric field in the    Sodium, on the wave-length of, as
  neighbourhood of a spherical bowl,         the standard of length, 403.
  on the, 38.                             Space, on the divisiou of, with mini
Potentiometer, on a magnetic, 04.            mum partitiotial area, 503.
Prestwich (Prof. J.) on the glacial       Sparks, on the electrostatic force
  period with reference to the an            required to produce, in air and
  tiquity of man, 284.                       other gases, IOC.
Pringsheim (E.) on the action of          Spectroscope, on a new photographic,
   light on a mixture of hydrogen            223.
   and chlorine, 510.                     Spectrum, on the, of water-vapour,
Prisms, on twin, for polarimeters,           hydrogen, and oxygen, 354.
   307.                                   Spectrum analysis, researches on,
Quantities, on a method of reducing          08.
  observations relating to several,       Spencer (J.) on boulders found in
   4(>0.                                     seams of coal, 201.
Radclifle (J.) on quartzite boulders      Stanley (W. F.) on the probable
  and grooves in the Roger Mine at           amount of former glaciation of
  Dukinfield, 141.                           Norway. 130.
Raisin (Miss C. A.) on the metamor-       Steel at a bright-red heat, on peculi
  phic rocks of South Devon, 288.            arities in, 435.
Ramsay (Dr. W.) on evaporation and        Stoney (Dr. G. J.) on the cause of
   dissociation, 10C.                        iridescence in clouds, 87.
" Random scattering " of points on a      Stiitzerbach (F. F. in) on a new vol
  surface, on, 430.                          taic battery, 447.
Rayleigh (Lord) on the maintenance        Sun, on oxygen in the, 302 ; on car
   of vibrations by forces of double         bon in the, 310 ; on the existence
  frequency, and on the propagation          of certain elements and discovery
   of waves through a medium en              of platinum in the, 325 ; on the
   dowed with a periodic structure,          dissolution of hydrogen and oxy
   145.                                      gen in the atmosphere of the,
Reade (T. M.) on the secular cooling         305.
   of the earth in relation to mounUiiii-  Sundell (Prof. A. F.) on spectrum
   building, 212.                             analysis, 08.

524                                INDEX.
Sutherland (W.) on the law of mole       Torsion, on changes in the, of a wire
  cular force, 118, 168.                    by change of temperature, 160.
Swinburne (J.) on a method of mea        Triethylbenzylphosphonium, on the
  suring the mutual induction of            action of heat on the salts of, 27.
  two coils, 85.                         Trowbridge (Prof. J.) on oxygen in
Temperature, on the dimensions of,         the sun, 302 ; on the existence of
  in length, mass, and time, and on        carbon in the sun, 310.
  an absolute C.G.S. unit of, 90.        Turner (H. H.) on reducing observa
Thompson (Prof. S. P.) on twin              tions, 400.
  prisms for polarimeters, 307.          Vibrations, on the maintenance of,
Thomson (Sir W.) on the stability           by forces of double frequency, 145.
  of fluid motion, 188, 272 ; on a       Voltaic cells, on the application of the
  broad river flowing1 down an in          deci-ampere or the centi-ampere
  clined plane bed, 272 ; on the pro       balance to determine the electro
  pagation of laminar motion through       motive forces of, 514.
  a turbulently moving inviscid li       Wassmuth (A.) on the determination
  quid, 342 ; on the division of space     of the work of magnetization, 144.
  with minimum partitional area,         Water-vapour, on the spectrum of,
  503 ; on the application of the          354.
  deci-ampere or the centi-ampere        Waves, on the propagation of through
  balance to determine the electro         a medium endowed with a periodic
  motive forces of voltaic cells, 514.     structure, 145.
Thomson effect, on the, 205.             Weber (L.) on thunder-storms and
Thunder-storms, on, 294.                   ^protection against lightning, 294.
Tomlinson (H.) on the effect of          \V ires, on the self-induction of, 03 ;
  changes of temperature in twisting       on the effect of change of tempera
  or untwisting wires which have           ture in twisting or untwistingwirea
  suffered permanent torsion, 253 ;        which have suffered permanent
  on raising iron under temporary          torsion, 100, 253, 314.
  stress or permanent strain to a '      Young (Dr. S.) on evaporation and
  bright red heat, 250.                    dissociation, 190.
             END OF THE TWENTY-FOURTH VOLUME.
          Printed by Taylor and Prakcis, Bed Lion Court, Fleet Street.

                     Phil.Mag. S.S.Vol. 24. PI. I
Mrrilem Rr-oe . lith


              Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol.24. PI. II.
]&ln Broa hth




                           Phil. NUs.S.5. Vol. I
               - Hii«f« H'otuitnjtni filtam ) .
;iSfl (***
IfinLem Braa hlh





  RETURN TO the circulation desk of any
          University of California Library
                     or to the
  NORTHERN REGIONAL LIBRARY FACILITY
  Bldg. 400, Richmond Field Station
  University of California
  Richmond, CA 94804-4698
ALL BOOKS MAY BE RECALLED AFTER 7 DAYS
2-month loans may be renewed by calling
   (415) 642-6233
1-year loans may be recharged by bringing books
   to NRLFand recharges may be made 4 days
Renewals
    prior to due date
             DUE AS STAMPED BELOW
       WW



