Report of the ... Meeting of the British Association for the Advancement
of Science.

British Association for the Advancement of Science.
London : J. Murray, 1834-1917.
http://hdl.handle.net/2027/njp.32101076796307

                                          Public Domain, Google-digitized
                                              http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google

                                                          We have determined this work to be in the public domain,
                                                          meaning that it is not subject to copyright. Users are
                                                          free to copy, use, and redistribute the work in part or
                                                          in whole. It is possible that current copyright holders,
                                                          heirs or the estate of the authors of individual portions
                                                          of the work, such as illustrations or photographs, assert
                                                          copyrights over these portions. Depending on the nature
                                                          of subsequent use that is made, additional rights may
                                                          need to be obtained independently of anything we can
                                                          address. The digital images and OCR of this work were
                                                          produced by Google, Inc. (indicated by a watermark
                                                          on each page in the PageTurner). Google requests that
                                                          the images and OCR not be re-hosted, redistributed
                                                          or used commercially. The images are provided for
                                                          educational, scholarly, non-commercial purposes.
m
    iftfrnttg of

ttttretrcr Jutiftennig.
>-i: i Jk
v  W JERSFY
UL LG L iiE.
1 13          , .{

REPORT

              THIRD MEETING

BRITISH ASSOCIATION

ADVANCEMENT OF SCIENCE;

                         HELD AT CAMBRIDGE IN 1833.

              LONDON:

JOHN MURRAY, ALBEMARLE STREET.

                                          1834.
                                      KAtlkiAM

              LONDON:
PRINTED BY RICHARD TAYLOR,

         RED LION COURT, FLEET STREET.
PREFACE.

A HE Transactions of the British Association consist of
three parts ; first, of Reports on the State of Science drawn
up at the instance of the Association ; secondly, of Miscel
laneous Communications to the Meetings ; and thirdly, of
Recommendations by the Committees, having for their ob
jects to mark out certain points for scientific inquiry.

   It is proper to remark, that some of the Reports here

printed are to be considered in the light of first parts of
the intended survey of the sciences reviewed in them, the
continuation being postponed to a future Meeting. Thus,
the Report on Hydraulics, by Mr. G. Rennie, will be

completed in a second part, to be presented to the Meeting
                                                       of
at Edinburgh ; the Report on the mathematical  theory
                                               which   is
the same science, by the Rev. Mr. Challis,
here restricted to problems on the common theory of Fluids,
will be further extended to the theories which have recently
been advanced respecting the internal constitution of Fluids
and the state of their caloric, to account for certain pheno
mena of their equilibrium and motion ; and the Report on
Analytical Science, by the Rev. Mr. Peacock, which in the
present volume includes Algebra, and the application of

Algebra to Geometry, is intended to be hereafter concluded
by a review of the Differential and Integral Calculus and the
theory of Series. In like manner, to the Report on Botany,
by Dr. Lindley, which embraces only the physiological
part of the science, that which Mr. Bentham has under
taken on the State and Progress of Systematic Botany will
be supplemental ; and to the present Report, by Dr. Charles
Henry, on one branch of Animal Physiology, a more
general review of the progress of that science will be added

by the Rev. Dr. Clark.
With respect to the next part of the Transactions, which

.!includes the communications made to the Sections, two
IV PREFACE.

rules have been adopted ; the first is, to print no oral com
munications unless furnished or revised by the Author him
self. In the former volume this rule was slightly deviated
from, for the purpose of showing in what manner the
Meetings were conducted. But however valuable a part of
the proceedings of the Meetings the verbal communications
and discussions maybe, it is evidently impossible to publish
a safe and satisfactory report of them from any minutes
which can be taken. The second rule is, not to print any
of the miscellaneous communications at length ; but either
abstracts of them, or notices* only, the object of the rule
being to keep the Transactions within the bounds which
the Association has prescribed to itself, and to prevent any
interference with the publications of other societies. In
the present volume, there is one paper printed at lengthf,
which contains the results of certain experiments instituted
expressly at the request of the Association.

    The Recommendations of various subjects for scientific
inquiry agreed upon at Cambridge have been here incor
porated with those adopted at former Meetings, and the
Suggestions which are contained in the Reports on the state
of science, published in the present and preceding volume,
have likewise been added; so as to present a general view of
the desiderata in science to which attention has been invited.
To this part of the volume are also appended those direc
tions for the use of observers which have proceeded from

Committees appointed to promote particular investigations.

    To the Transactions is prefixed a brief outline of the
General Proceedings of the Cambridge Meeting, a fuller Re
port of them having been rendered unnecessary by the ac
count which has already issued from the University press.

wellThe observations, however, delivered by the Rev. Mr. Whe-

         on the state of science as it is exhibited in the first
volume of the Reports of the Association, not having been

before published, are printed at length.

* The notices of Communications will be found in the general account of the
Protce"edEixnpgesriomf ethnets
                                Sections, p. 353.  of Rain  which  falls at  different  Heights in
                                 on the Quantity

the Atmosphere."
                CONTENTS

Proceedings of the Meeting                                                                            Page.

                                                                                                         ix

                TRANSACTIONS.

Report  oTn atyheloSrt,atFe.Ro.fSK.,noTwrelaesdugreerreosfpethcetinGgeoMloigniecaral l  Veins.    By
                                                                                        Society  and
  John

of the British Association for the Advancement of Science, &c.                                        1

On the Principal Questions at present debated in the Philosophy                                       27
   of Botany. By John Lindley, Ph. D., F.R.S., Professor of                                           59
   Botany in the University of London

Report on the Physiology of the Nervous System. By William
   Charles Henry, M.D., Physician to the Manchester Royal In

    firmary

Report on the present State of our Knowledge respecting the                                           93
   Strength of Materials. By Peter Barlow, F.R.S., Corr. Memb.
   Inst. France, &c. &c

Report on the State of our Knowledge respecting the Magnetism                                         105
   of the Earth. ByS. Hunter Christie, M.A., F.R.S., M.C.P.S.,
   Corr. Memb. Philom. Soc. Paris, Hon. Memb. Yorkshire Phil.
   Soc. ; of the Royal Military Academy ; and Member of Trinity

   College Cambridge

Report on the present State of  Bthye thAenaRlyevti.caJl.  Theory of Hydro
   statics and Hydrodynamics.
low of Trinity College Cambridge                           Challis, late Fel

                                                                                                      131

Report on the Progress and present State of our Knowledge of
Hydraulics as a Branch of Engineering. By George Rennie,
F.R.S., &c. &c
                                                                                                      153

Report on the recent Progress and present State of certain Branches                                   1 85
   of Analysis. By George Peacock, M.A., F.R.S., F.G.S.,
   F.Z.S., F.R.A.S., F.C.P.S., Fellow and Tutor of Trinity Col
    lege Cambridge

                TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                                                         353
                           I. Mathematics and Physics.
                                                                                                      360
Professor CErsted on the Compressibility of Water                                                     370

W. R. Hamilton on some Results of the View of a Characteristic

    Function in Optics
The Rev. H. Lloyd on Conical Refraction
VI CONTENTS.

....Sir John F. W. Herschel on the Absorption of Light by coloured                    Page.

Media, viewed in connexion with the undulatory Theory                                 373
The Rev. Baden Powell on the Dispersive Powers of the Media

of the Eye, in connexion with its Achromatism                                         374
R. Potter, Jun., on the power of Glass of Antimony to reflect

Light                                                                                 377

               on a Phenomenon in the Interference of Light

hitherto undescribed                                                                  378
Sir John F. W. Herschel's Explanation of the Principle and Con

struction of the Actinometer                                                          379
M. Melloni's Account of some recent Experiments on Radiant

   Heat                                                                               381
                                                                                      384
John Prideaux on Thermo-Electricity
W. Snow Harris on some new Phenomena of Electrical Attrac
tion
           John G. MacVicar                                                           386

The  Rev.  J. Power's Inquiry  on Electricity              of         Endosmose          390
The  Rev.                      into the Cause                                    and

    Exosmose                                                                          391
                                                                                      393
Michael Faraday on Electro -chemical Decomposition
Dr. Turner's Experiments on Atomic Weights
Prof. Johnston's Notice of a Method of analysing Carbonaceous                         399

Iron                                                                                  400
R. Potter, Jun. A Communication respecting an Arch of the

JohAnuroPrhailBliopresa'lsis Report of Experiments on the Quantities of Rain 401
falling at different Elevations above the Surface of the Ground at
York
                                                                                      401

          II. Philosophical Instruments and Mechanical Arts.

The Rev. Wm. Scoresby on a peculiar Source of Error in Experi
   ments with
The Rev. W.    Hth. eMDiilplpeinrgonNetehdeleConstruction  of      a  new  Barometer  412
W. L. Wharton on a Barometer with an enlarged Scale                                   414

                                                                                      414
W. S. Harris on the Construction of a new Wheel Barometer .. 414
J. Newman on a new Method of constructing a Portable Barometer 417
The Rev. James Cumming on an Instrument for measuring the
total heating Effect of the Sun's Rays for a given time
                                                                                      418

                      on some Electro-magnetic Instruments 418
Andrew Ure on the Thermostat, or Heat-governor
Thomas Davison on a Reflecting Telescope                                              419

W.  JL..  Wharton on a Steam-engine      for pumping Water                            420
E.        Dent on the Application of a  glass Balance-spring                          421

                                                                           to  Chro

    nometers                                                                          421
                                                                                      421
E. Hodgkinson on the Effect of Impact on Beams

               on the direct tensile Strength of Cast Iron                            423
J. I. Hawkins's Investigation of the Principle of Mr. Saxton's loco

   motive differential Pulley, &c                                                     424

JJo. hOnwTenayolonr'NsavAaclcAourcnhtitoefcttuhereDepths of Mines                     427
                                                                                      430
                         CONTENTS.                                    Vll

          III. Natural History --Anatomy -- Physiology.               Page.

Professor Agardh on the originary Structure of the Flower, and
the mutual Dependency of its Parts
Professor Daubeny's Notice of Researches on the Action of Light       433

WuapltoenrPlAadnatsm on some symmetrical Relations of the Bones of the 436

Megatherium                                                           437
R. Harlan on some new species of Fossil Saurians found in Ame

rica 440
The Rev. L. Jenyns's Remarks
                               on Genera and Subgenera,    &c. .  .   440
J. Macartney on some parts of  the Natural History of the   Com

mon Toad                                                              441
J. Blackwall's Observations relative to the Structure and Func
tions of Spiders
W. Yarrell on the Reproduction of the Eel                             444

C. Willcox on the Naturalization in England of the Mytilus cre-       44G

natus, a native of India, and the Acematichierus Heros, a native
   of Africa
                                                                              448
J. Macartney's Abstract of Observations    on the Structure and
Functions of the Nervous System
H. Carlile's Abstract of Observations on the Motions and Sounds       449

   of the Heart                                                       454
                                                                      460
....H. Earle on the Mechanism and Physiology of the Urethra
       Burt on the Nomenclature of Clouds
G. H. Fielding on the peculiar Atmospherical Phenomena as ob          460

served at Hull during April and May 1833, in relation to the
prevalence of Influenza
                                                                      461

                  IV. History of Science.

Francis Baily's short Account of some MS. Letters (addressed
   to Mr. Abraham Sharp, relative to the Publication of Mr. Flam-

steed's Historia Ctelestis,) laid on the table for the inspection of
the Members of the Association
                                                                      462

Recommendations of the British Association for the Advancement

of Science                                                            467

Recommendations of the Committees                                     469

Appendix                                                              484

Prospectus of the Objects and Plan of the Statistical Society of
London
                                                                      492

Objects and Rules of the Association                                  497

Index                                                                 501
                                          TREASURERS                                               ACCOUNT.

                                  Dr.                                                                                            Cr.

1832.                                                               s.           d. 0 0 0 0 0 8 0  1832.                                                     £s.           s.    d. 4 0 0
                                                          192 10 11          0 0 00 020                                                                                      450
       Balance from 1831                                 605                                              Sundry Expenses                                  d. . 0 0 4136
                                                          461         £9                                                                                             836
       Compositions, 1832                                                                                 Purchase of 1000/. in  3  per cent.                 QConsols...
                                                            80                                                                                             .           50
       Subscriptions                                        33                                            Secretary's Salary, six months         £8,. ,,
       Arrears of Subscriptions,                            35
       Compositions, 1833          1831                     15                                            Balance in the hands of Bankers,   J1
                                                                                                              Messrs. Barnetts and Co.
                                                    £1430 13
       Subscriptions                                                                                      Ditto Treasurer                            10
       Received on Account of Reports
       Dividend on Stock, six months                                                                      Ditto  Dr. Daubeny, Oxford...        55 15
                                                                                                          Ditto  Rev. T. Luby, Dublin          24 16

                                                                                                                                                              408              3
                                                                                                                                                                           4

                                                                      7                                                                                  £1430 13              7

     We, the undersigned, having examined the Treasurer's Ac                                                                     JOHN       TAYLOR,      Treasurer.
count of the British Association for the Advancement of

Science, do find Balance in the hands of the Treasurer of
               a;
SI. 10;.; in the hands of the Bankers, 319/. 2s. lid,; due3

from Dr. Daubeny, 55/. 15s. from the Rev. T. Luby,                                                 Cambridge, 22nd June, 1833.
                                       ;

24/. 16s. id. amounting altogether to 408/. 4s. 3d. and
                                                                      ;

also 1000/.  per cent. Consols.

                   ir.}G. B. GREENOUGH              Auditors.
                          WILLIAM        SCORESBY,

Cambridge, 22nd June, 1833.
       THIRD REPORT.

       PROCEEDINGS OF THE MEETING.

                                                   1833.

A HE third Meeting of the British Association commenced its

sittings at Cambridge on Monday, the 24th of June, 1833. It

was attended by more than nine hundred Members, and was
honoured with the presence of several foreign philosophers.

The extent of accommodation provided by the University, and
by the societies of which it consists, corresponded with the
magnitude of the Meeting. The public schools, with two
adjoining halls, were allotted to the use of the Sections and

Committees, and the Senate-house was appropriated to the
reception of the general assemblies ; a large proportion of the
visitors were lodged within the walls of the Colleges, and the
great halls of the two principal foundations were opened in
hospitality to a concourse of guests collected from all parts by
a common interest in scientific pursuits.

       GENERAL MEETING.

   On Monday evening, at eight o'clock, the Members assem
bled in the Senate-house : and a public discussion took place
on the phenomena and theory of the Aurora Borealis.

    On Tuesday, at 1 p. m. a General Meeting was held in
the Senate-house ; the President of the preceding year, (the
Rev. Dr. Buckland,) resigned his office. In the course of
his speech*, he congratulated the Meeting on the proof af
forded by the Report recently published, that the Association
was pursuing a course of peculiar utility to science, whilst at the

   * A fuller account of the speeches delivered at the Meeting will be found
annexed to the lithographed signatures, &c, published at Cambridge.
       b
1833.
X THIRD REPORT-- 1833.

same time it had fully redeemed its pledge of not interfering with
the province of other Scientific Societies.
   The President (the Rev. Professor Sedgwick,) stated, in his
opening speech, that it was the desire of the Vice-Chancellor
and the Heads of Colleges that everything should be done on
the present occasion to emulate, as far as circumstances per
mitted, the splendid reception which had been given to the
Association by the sister University of Oxford. He dwelt on
the advantages which such a Meeting brought with it to the
places in which it was held, by inducing scientific foreigners to
visit them, and expressed the delight with which he hailed such
visits, as an omen that the great barriers which for a length
of time had served man for man, had now been broken
down. He described the character of the Reports which
the Association has published ; and added that he attached so
much value to these expositions of the state of science, that
he had requested one of the Secretaries, (the Rev.     William
Whewell,) to present to the Meeting a fuller analysis  of their
lwcpsooaohwnisdosti,neleengs"stlsiign.fsergiatthtiaiTnafnyshgiiennbagetmPeearlnolenensncdgiotdeuvseuntonscitlteel mdiwncheoitonntosstcelhuth:edheae"aldtcihTraiheuihsessitersebvsolaipigfsneocteaurhcuprhe,thdh--iw,lo--baistymohmptaiyhnmthevweere,,h"nobfeoshurelet
able friend Dr. Dalton. Without any powerful apparatus for
making philosophical' experiments, with an apparatus, indeed,
which many might think almost contemptible, and with very
limited external means for employing his great natural powers,
he has gone straight forward in his distinguished course, and
obtained for himself in those branches of knowledge which he
has cultivated, a name not perhaps equalled by that of any
other living philosopher in the world. From the hour he came
from his mother's womb the God of nature laid his hand upon
him, and ordained him for the ministration of high philosophy.
But his natural talents, great as they are, and his almost
intuitive skill in tracing the relations of material phenomena,
would have been of comparatively little value to himself and to
society, had there not been superadded to them a beautiful
moral simplicity and singleness of heart, which made him go
on steadily in the way he saw before him, without turning to
the right hand or to the left, and taught him to do homage to
no authority before that of truth. Fixing his eye on the most
extensive views of science, he has been not only a successful
experimenter, but a philosopher of the highest order; his
experiments have never had an insulated character, but have
been always made as contributions towards some important
                  PROCEEDINGS OF THE MEETING.                                                    XI

end, as among the steps towards some lofty generalization.
And with a most happy prescience of the points to which the
rays of scattered observations were converging, he has more
than once seen light while                       to other eyes
out of seeming confusion                           has elicited        all was yet in  darkness ;
                                                                        order; and      has thus
reached the high distinction of being one of the greatest legis
lato"rIst  of  chemical science.
               my delightful privilege           this  day             to announce (on the
           is                                          who             sits near me,*) that
authority of a Minister of the Crown
His Majesty, King William the Fourth, wishing to manifest
his attachment to science, and his regard for a character like
that of Dr. Dalton, has graciously conferred on him, out of
the funds of the Civil List, a substantial mark of his royal
favour."

  The Rev. William Whewell, being called                                        upon   by    the
President, delivered the following address :--

" The British Association for the Advancement of Science
meets at present under different circumstances from those
which accompanied its former Meetings. The publication of
the volume containing the Reports applied for by the Meeting
at York, in 1831, and read before the Meeting at Oxford last
year, must affect its proceedings during our sittings on the
present occasion ; and thus we are now to look for the operation
of one part of the machinery which its founders have endea
voured to put in action. Entertaining the views which sug
gested to them the scheme and plan of the Association, they
must needs hope that such an event as this publication will
                                influence upon its future
exe"rcTisheis  a  beneficial  derived, they trust, from                       career.
                  hope is                                                      no visionary
                                                                                             or
presumptuous notions of what institutions and associations can
effect. Let none suppose that we ascribe to assembled num
                      labours
bers and conjoined  of science                   e;x--trathvaatgawnet   powers   and privileges
in the promotion                                                       believe  in the omnipo
tence of a parliament of the scientific world. We know that
the progress of discovery can no more be suddenly accelerated
by a word of command uttered by a multitude, than by a
skinnogwleledvgoeice--. noThpeorsesibisi,litays                                no royal road to
                                                 was long ago          said,  way, because he
                                                 of shortening          the

who wishes to travel along it is the most powerful one ; and
just as little is there any mode of making it shorter, because
they who press forward are many. We must all start from
our actual position, and we cannot accelerate our advance by

                  · The Right Honourable T. Spring Rice.

                                      b2
Xii THIRD REPORT -- 1833.

any method of giving to each man his mile of the march. Yet
something we may do : we may take care that those who come
                      for the road,                   s;h--alsl hsatlal rtnoftrosmcratmhebleproopveerr
ready  and  willing  proper direction
point  and  in the

broken ground, when there is a causeway parallel to their
path, nor set off
first steps of the  rcooandfidaerentslytilflrodmoubatnfuald;v--anscheadll  point when the
                                                                           not waste their

powers in struggling forwards where movement is not progress,
and shall have pointed out to them all glimmerings of light,
through the dense and deep screen which divides us from the
next bright region of philosophical truth. We cannot create,
we cannot even direct, the powers of discovery ; but we may
perhaps aid them to direct themselves ; we may perhaps
enable them to feel how many of us are ready to admire their
success, and willing, so far as it is possible for intellects of a
com" mItonwapsitccohn,cetoivemdintihsatet ratno  their exertions.
                                                 exposition of the  recent          progress,
the present condition, the most pressing requirements of the
principal branches of science
answer some of the purposes                      aIt  the present moment, might
                                                      have attempted to describe.
Several such expositions have accordingly been presented to
the Association by persons selected for the task, most of them
eminent for their own contributions to the department which
they had to review ; and these are now accessible to Members
of the Association and to the public. It appears to be suitable
to the design of this body, and likely to further its aims, that
some one should endeavour to point out the bearing which the
statements thus brought before it may and ought to have upon
its future proceedings,     and especially upon the labours of the
Meeting now begun.       I
                            am well persuaded that if the President

had taken this office upon himself, the striking and important
views which it may naturally suggest would have been pre
sented in a manner worthy of the occasion : he has been

iInfhlauveencceodnsbidyerveadriouths actaIussehsoutoldwsishhowtomdyevreoslvpeecitt  upon me, and
                                                                                    for the Asso

ciation better by attempting the task, however imperfectly,
tha"n       pleading my inferior                 fitness  for it.
        by   particular questions                which    require  consideration,   and

       The

the researches which most require prosecution, in the sciences
to which the Reports now before you refer, will be offered to
the notice of the Sections of the Association which the subjects

respectively concern, at their separate sittings. It is conceived
that the most obvious and promising chance of removing
deficiencies and solving difficulties in each subject, is to be
found in drawing to them the notice of persons who have paid
                   PROCEEDINGS OF THE MEETING.                        Xlii

a continued and especial attention to the subject. The con
sideration of these points will
of the business of the Sectional         therefore properly form a part
                                         Meetings ; and all Members of
the Association, according to their own peculiar pursuits
and means, will thus have the opportunity of supplying any
wanting knowledge, and of throwing light upon any existing
per"plBeuxittyb. esides this special examination of the suggestions
which your Reports contain, there are some more general
reflexions to which they naturally give rise, which may perhaps
be  properly brought forward        uwphonicht,hiisf  first  General Assembly
    the present Meeting ; and                         they    are well founded,
of

may preside over and influence the aims and exertions of many
of us, both during our present discussions and in our future
                    further the ends of
att"emTphtes reto  is here neither time  science.            for any  but the
                                         nor occasion
most rapid survey of the subjects to which your Reports refer,
in the point of view in which the Reports place them before
you. Astronomy, which stands first on the list, is not only
the queen of sciences, but, in a stricter sense of the term, the
only perfect science ; -- the only branch of human knowledge
in which    cpaaursteicsu;l--arsin  are completely  subjugated   to generals,
effects to                          which the long  observation
                                                                 of the past
has been, by human reason, twined         into a chain which binds
in its links the remotest events of      the future ;-- in which we

are able fully and clearly to interpret Nature's oracles, so that
by that which we have tried we receive a prophecy of that
which is untried. The rules of all our leading facts have
been made out by observations of which the science began
with the earliest dawn of history ; the grand law of causation
by which they are all bound together has been enunciated for
150 years; and we have in this case an example of a science
in that elevated state of flourishing maturity, in which all that
remains is to determine with the extreme of accuracy the con
sequences of its rules by the profoundest combinations of
mathematics, the magnitude of its data by the minutest scru
pulousness of observation ; in which, further, its claims are so
fully acknowledged, that the public wealth of every nation pre
tending to civilization, the most consummate productions of
labour and skill, and the loftiest and most powerful intellects
which appear among men, are gladly and emulously assigned
to the task of adding to its completeness. In this condition of
the science, it will readily be understood that Professor Airy,
                   it,
your Reporter upon has had to mark his desiderata, in no
cases but those where some further developement of calcula
xiv THIRD REPORT -- 1833.

tion, some further delicacy of observation, some further accu
mulation of exact facts, are requisite ; though in every branch
of the subject the labour of calculation, the delicacy of obser
vation, and the accumulation of exact facts, have already gone
so far that the mere statement of what has been done can

hardly be made credible or conceivable to a person unfamiliar
wit"h
        the    study.    indeed,  in his list of recommendations  to future
       One     article,
labourers, read at the last Meeting of the Association, may ap
ptheearrecsatp,a--bletheofdbeeteinrgmiancactioomn plisohfedthebymamsosreoflimJuitpeidtelrabboyuorbtshearn
vations of the elongations of his satellites. And undoubtedly,
many persons were surprised when they found that on this, so
obvious a subject of interest, no measures had been obtained
               which     Pound took    at the request of  Newton. Yet
since those              accuracy and   certainty worthy   of the present
in this case,   if an
condition of Astronomy were to be aimed at, the requisite ob
servations could not be few nor the calculation easy, when it
is considered in how complex a manner the satellites disturb
each other's motions. But the Meeting will learn with pleasure
that the task which he thus pointed out to others, he has him
self in the intervening time executed in the most complete
manner. He has weighed the mass of Jupiter in the way he
thus recommended ; and it may show the wonderful perfection
of such astronomical measures to state, that he has proved with
certainty, that this mass is more than 322 and less than 323
               mass of the terrestrial  globe on which we stand.
tim"esSuthceh  is Astronomy : but in     proceeding to other sciences,
our condition and our task are of a far different kind. Instead
of developing our theories, we have to establish them ; instead
of determining our data and rules with the last accuracy, we
have to obtain first approximations to them. This, indeed,
may be asserted of the next subject on the list, though that
is, in its principles, a branch of Physical Astronomy ; for that
Ialone of all the branches of Physical Astronomy had been al
most or altogether neglected by men of science.                   speak of
the science of the Tides. Mr. Lubbock terminated his Report
on this subject, by lamenting in Laplace's words this unmerited
neglect. He himself in England, and Laplace in France, were

indeed the only mathematicians who had applied themselves

to do some portion of what was to be done with respect to this
subject. Since our Meeting last year, Mr. Dessiou has, under
Mr. Lubbock's direction, compared the tides of London, Sheer-
ness, Portsmouth, Plymouth, Brest, and St. Helena ; and the

comparison has brought to light very remarkable agreements
                           PROCEEDINGS OF THE MEETING.  XV

in the law which regulates the time of high water, agreements
both with each other and with theory ; and has at the same
time brought into view some anomalies which will give a strong
impulse to the curiosity with which we shall examine the re
Icords of future observations at some of these places and at
many others.               may perhaps here take the liberty of mention
ing my own attempts since our last Meeting, to contribute

something bearing on this department. It appeared to me that
our knowledge of one particular branch of this subject, the
motion of the tide-wave in all parts of the ocean, was in such a
condition, that by collecting and arranging our existing mate
rials, we should probably be enabled to procure abundant and
Ivaluable additions to them. This, therefore, attempted to
Id' oEs;saayndtowarhdasve   embodied the result   of this attempt in an
                           a First Approximation   to a Map of Cotidal
Lines,' which is now just printed in the Philosophical Transac
Iftions of the Royal Society.  the time of the Meeting allows,
I would willingly place before you the views at which we have
now arrived, and the direction of our labours which these

sug"gIens,tt.he case of the science of Tides, we have no doubt about
the general theory to which the phaenomena are to be referred,
the law of universal gravitation ; though we still desiderate a
clear application of the theory to the details. In another sub
ject which comes under our review, the science of Light, the
prominent point of interest is the selection of the general
theory. Sir David Brewster, the author of our Report on this
subject, has spoken of ' the two rival theories of light,' which
are, as you are aware, that which makes light to consist in
material particles emitted by a luminous body, and that which
makes it to consist in undulations propagated through a sta
tionary ether. The rivalry of these theories, so far as they
can now be said to be rivals, has been by no means barren of
interest and instruction during the year which is just elapsed.

IThe discussions on the undulatory theory in our scientific

journals have been animated, and cannot, think, be considered
as having left the subject where they found it. The claims of
the undulatory theory, it will be recollected, do not depend
only on its                  facts which  it was originally intended
to explain   explaining the               suppositions adopted in
             ; but on this   ;--that the
order to account for one set of facts, fall in most wonderfully
with the suppositions requisite to explain a class of facts en
tirely different ; in the same manner as in the doctrine of gra
vitation, the law of force which is derived from the revolutions
of the planets in their orbits, accounts for the apparently re
XVi THIRD REPORT 1833.

mote facts of the precession of the equinoxes and the tides.
To all                                                                          of the
        this there is  ;noatnhdingnocoonrree, sIpothnidnikn,g  in the history     with
theory                                                         well acquainted
        of emission
the subject, would now assert, that if this latter theory had
been as much cultivated as the other, it might have had a simi
lar"bBriullitainft
                     fortune in these respects.  true,         there  must  be solu
                    the undulatory theory be
tions to all the apparent difficulties and contradictions which
may occur in particular cases ; and moreover the doctrine will

probably gain general acceptance, in proportion as these solu
tions are propounded and understood, and as prophecies of
untried results are delivered and fulfilled. In the way of such

prophecies few things have been more remarkable than the
prediction, that under particular circumstances a ray of light

must be refracted into a  coofniDcaulblpine,ncail,nddeadfutecrewdarfdrsomvethriefietdheoerxy
by Professor Hamilton
perimentally by Professor Lloyd. In the way of special diffi
culties, Mr. Potter proposed an ingenious experiment which
appeared to him inconsistent with the theory. Professor Airy,
from a mathematical examination of this case, asserted that the
facts, which are indeed difficult to observe, must be somewhat
                                   to Mr.
different from what they appeared  Airy's                      Potter ; and  hIavcinang
myself been present at Professor                               experiments,

venture to say, that the appearances agree exactly with the
results which he has deduced from the theory. Another gen
tleman, Mr. Barton, proposed other difficulties founded upon
the calculation of certain experiments of Biot and Newton ;
and Professor Powell of Oxford has pointed out that the data
so referred to cannot safely be made the basis of such calcula
tions, for mathematical reasons. There is indeed here, also,
one question of fact concerning an experiment stated in New
ton's Optics : In a part of the image of an aperture where
Newton's statement places a dark line, in which Mr. Barton has
followed him, Professors Airy, Powell, and others, have been
able to see only a bright space, as the theory would require.
Probably the experiments giving the two different results have
not been made under precisely the same circumstances ; and
the admirers of Newton are the persons who will least of all

consider his immoveable fame as exposed to any shock by these
dis"cuPsseiorhnas.ps, while the undulationist will conceive that his
opinions have gained no small accession of evidence by this ex
emplification of what they will account for, those who think the
advocates of the theory have advanced its claims too far, will
be in some degree conciliated by having a distinct acknow
                     PROCEEDINGS OF THE MEETING.                              Xvii

ledgement, as during these discussions they have had, of what
it does not pretend to explain. The whole doctrine of the
                 of                        out of the pale of its calcula
absorption           light is at  present
tions ; and      if  the theory   is ever  extended to these phaenomena,
it must be by supplementary suppositions concerning the ether
and its undulations, of which we have at present not the slight
est"cTohnceerpetioanre. various of the Physical subjects to which your
Reports refer, which it is less necessary to notice in a general
sketch like the present. The recent discoveries in Thermo
electricity, of which Professor Cumming has presented you
with a review, and the investigations concerning Radiant Heat
which have been arranged and stated by Professor Powell, are
subjects of great interest and promise ; and they are gradually
advancing, by the accumulation of facts bound together by
subordinate rules, into that condition in which we may hope to

see   them   subjugated to general         thaendsubpjehcitlsosoI phhaivceal    theories.
      with  regard to this prospect,                                          mentioned
But
are only the fragments of sciences, on which we cannot hope
to theorize successfully except by considering them with refer
ence to their whole ; --Thermo-electricity with reference to the
whole doctrine of electricity ; Radiant Heat with reference to
                             of heat.
Ifthe"whole      doctrine     just mentioned  be but parts  of sciences,
            the    subjects

there is another on which you have a Report before you, which,
Ithough treated as one science, is in reality a collection of several
sciences, each of great extent.            speak of Meteorology, which
is reported on by Professor Forbes. There is perhaps no por
tion of human knowledge more capable of being advanced by
our conjoined exertions than this : some of the requisite ob
servations demand practice and skill ; but others are easily
made, when the observer is once imbued with sound elemen
tary notions ; and in all departments of the subject little can
be done without a great accumulation of facts and a patient in
quiry after their rules. Some such contributions we may look
for at our present Meeting. Professor Forbes has spoken of
the possibility of constructing maps of the sky by which we
may trace the daily and hourly condition of the atmosphere
over large tracts of the earth. If, indeed, we could make a
stratigraphical analysis of the aerial shell of the earth, as the
geologist has done of its solid crust, this would be a vast step
for Meteorology. This, however, must needs be a difficult task :
in addition to the complexity of these superincumbent masses,
time enters here as a new element of variety : the strata of the
geologist continue fixed and permanent : those of the meteoro
Xviii                        THIRD REPORT -- 1833.

logist change from one moment to another. Another difficulty
is this ; that while we want to determine what takes place in
the whole depth of the aerial ocean, our observations are neces
sarily made almost solely at its bottom. Our access to the
heights of the atmosphere is more limited, m comparison with
what we wish to observe, than our access to the depths of the

ear"thG. eology, indeed, is a most signal and animating instance of
what may be effected by continued labours governed by common
views. Mr. Conybeare's Report upon this science gives you
a view of what has been done in it during the last twenty years ;
and his ' Section of Europe from the North of Scotland to the
Adriatic,' which is annexed to the Report, conveys the general
views with regard to the structure of Central Europe, at which
geologists have now arrived. To point out any more recent
additions to its progress or its prospects is an undertaking
more suitable to the geologists by profession, than to the pre
sent sketch. And all who take an interest in the subject will
rejoice that the constitution and practice of the Geological So
ciety very happily provide, by the annual addresses of its Pre
sidents, against any arrear in the incorporation of fresh acquisi
Ition"sThweithsciitesncaeccuomf uMlainteedraltorgeyas, uroens.which had the honour of
offering a Report to the Association, was formerly looked upon

as a subordinate portion of Geology. It may, however, now be
most usefully considered as a science co-ordinate and closely
allied with Chemistry, and the most important questions for

examination in the one science belong almost equally to the
other. Mr. Johnston, in his Report on Chemical Science, has,
        asnudbjpelcetsiormeqourpirheisdm, ,dwwelhticuhpIonhatdhenoqtiuceesdtioanss   of isomor
as the                                                                              of great im
phism
portance to Mineralogy. Dr. Turner and Prof. Miller, who at
the last Meeting undertook to inquire into this subject, have
examined a number of cases, and obtained some valuable facts ;
but the progress of our knowledge here necessarily requires
time, since the most delicate chemical analysis and the exact

measurement of 30 or 40 crystals are wanted for the satisfac
tory establishment of the properties of each species *. In Che-

I· Perhaps shall not have a more favourable occasion than the present of
correcting a statement in my Report, which is not perfectly accurate, on a point
which has                    of controversy  between Sir David Brewster and Mr.
Brooke.    Ibeen a  subject  (p. 338.) the   sulphato-tricarbonate of lead of Mr.
              have  noticed

Brooke, as a mineral which at first appeared to contradict Sir David Brewster's
general law of the connexion of crystalline form with optical structure, in as
much as it appeared to be of the rhombohedral system, and was found to have
                       PROCEEDINGS OF THE MEETING.                    XIX

Iniistry, besides the great subject of isomorphism to which

have referred, there are some other yet undecided questions,
as for instance those concerning the existence and relations
of the sulpho-salts and chloro-salts ; and these are not small
points, for    they affect the whole aspect of
thus show      us how erroneously we should                chemical   theory, and
                                                                       we were to
                                                           judge, if
con"sIindeer vtehriys            as otherwise than in its infancy.
                       science   Notation and Nomenclature are        questions
                       science,
subordinate to calculation and theory. The Notation of Cry
stallography is such as to answer the purposes of calculation,
whether we take that of Mohs, Weiss, or Nauman. It appears
very desirable that the Notation of Chemistry also should be so
constructed as to answer the same purpose. Dr. Turner in the
last edition of his Chemistry, and Mr. Johnston in his Report,
have used a notation which has this advantage, which that

commonly employed by the continental Chemists does not

Ipos"seshs.ave elsewhere stated to the Association how little hope
there appears at present to be of purifying and systematizing
oCuhremmisinteryraltoogiwcahlichnoImheanvcelaatulrree.ady  The changes of theory in
                                                            referred, must necessarily
superinduce a change of its nomenclature, in the same manner
in which the existing nomenclature was introduced by the pre
valent theory ; and the new views have in fact been connected

with such a change by those who have propounded them. It
will be for the Chemical Section of the Association to consider
how far these questions of Nomenclature and Notation can be
                 with advantage at the present Meeting.
dis"cuTshseed  Reports presented at the last Meeting had              a reference,

for the most part, to physical rather than physiological science.
The latter department of human knowledge will be more pro
minently the subject of some of the Reports which are to come
before us on the present occasion. There is, however, one of

two axes of double refraction ; and which was afterwards found to confirm the
law, the apparently rhombohedral forms being found by Mr. Haidinger to be
not simple but compound. It seems, however, that the solution of the difficulty
(for no one now will doubt that it has a solution,) is somewhat  different. There
appear to have been included under this name two different       kinds of crystals
belonging to different systems of crystallization. Some which Mr. Brooke found
to be rhombohedral, Sir David Brewster found to have a single optical axis

with no trace of composition ; others were prismatic with two axes ; and thus
Mr. Brooke's original determinations were probably correct. The high reputa
tion of the parties in this controversy does not need this explanation ; but pro
bably those who look with pleasure at the manner in which the apparent excep
tions to laws of nature gradually disappear, may not think a moment or two lost

in placing the matter on its proper footing.
XX THIRD REPORT -- 1833.

last year's Reports which refers to one of the widest questions
of Physiology ; that of Dr. Prichard on the History of the
Human Species, and its subdivision into races. The other
lines of research which tend in the same direction will probably
be brought before the Association in successive years, and thus
give us a view of the extent of knowledge which is accessible

to "usInonadthdiistiosnubtjoectth. ese particular notices of the aspect under
which various sciences present themselves to us as resulting
Ifrom the Reports of last years, there is a reflexion which may

   think be collected from the general consideration of these
sciences, and which is important to us, since it bears upon the
manner in which science is to be promoted by combined labour
such as that which it is                                object of   this Association
tshtiims u;--latethatanadcoomrgbainnaizteio.n  a main  reflexion                      to
                                                                   to which I refer   is
                                                The
                                               of theory with facts, of general views
with experimental industry, is requisite, even in subordinate

contributors to science. It has of late been common to assert
that/acts alone are valuable in science ; that theory, so far as
it is valuable, is contained in the facts ; and, so far as it is not

contained in the facts, can merely mislead and preoccupy men.
But this antithesis between theory and facts has probably in
its turn contributed to delude and perplex ; to make men's ob
servations and speculations useless and fruitless. For it is only
through some view or other of the connexion and relation of
facts, that we know what circumstances we ought to notice and
record ; and every labourer in the field of science, however
humble, must direct   his
original or adopted.  Or                       ilfabthoeursworbdy   some   theoretical views,
                                                                   theory  be unconquerably
obnoxious, as to some it appears to be, it will probably still be
conceded, that it is the rules of facts, as well as facts themselves,
with which it is our business to acquaint ourselves. That the
recollection of this may not be useless, we may collect from the
fcgdtohoolarennenteiradgas,nst"etrvoohenwberosyhmetsihrcaevihnyrassgtPo, rroo(iepffws.e,ohs"1eus8nor4hro,e)hwAe"nairdyahdanasnis,ndo"bmhositefashrdevoReeteherpexaohrncriotcbnooihctubiaenossitevnreridevsorsaaf.ttwirhoenanst"u.b"Ilethnstew"eEahenanInnds
the comparison of results with theory, are considered as de
serving more of an astronomer's attention, and demanding
greater exercise of his intellect, than the mere observation of a
body on the wire of a telescope." We may, indeed, perceive
in some measure the reason which has led to the neglect of
theory with us. For a long period astronomical theory was
greatly a-head of observation, and this deficiency was mainly
                PROCEEDINGS OF THE MEETING.                                  XXI

supplied by the perseverance and accuracy of English ob
servers. It was natural that the value and reputation which
our observations thus acquired for the time, should lead us to
think too disrespectfully, in comparison, of the other depart
ments of the science. Nor is the lesson thus taught us con
fined to Astronomy ; for, though we may not be able in other
respects to compare our facts with the results of a vast and yet
certain theory, we ought never to forget that facts can only
become portions of knowledge as they become classed and con
nected ; that they can only constitute truth when they are in
cluded in general propositions. Without some attention to this
consideration, we may notice daily the changes of the winds
and skies, and make a journal of the weather, which shall have
no more value than a journal of our dreams would have ; but
if we can once obtain fixed measures of what we notice, and
connect our measures by probable or certain rules, it is no
longer a vacant employment to gaze at the clouds, or an un
profitable stringing together of expletives to remark on the
weather ; the caprices of the atmosphere become steady dispo

"Itsitions, and we are on the road to meteorological science.

           may be added-- as a further reason why no observer
should be content without arranging his observations, in what
celvaesrsifyparatndofcoPnhnyescitcst,heamnd--  without endeavouring
                                               that when this is not     at  least to
                                                                      done    at first,
it will most likely never be done. The circumstances of the
observation can hardly ever be properly understood or inter
preted by others ; the suggestions which the observations
themselves supply, for change of plan or details, cannot in any
other way be properly appreciated and acted on. And even
the mere multitude of unanalysed observations may drive future
students of the subject into a despair of rendering them useful.
AAmdumiarcdyoeenmgtinheent1mht7ieo5"n0so,i,nt"hhew1er8e1ord8eb.esseniredvae"errIslany,tau"lsikeBinelreasdAmslseattnyirlon'lsenBroeombsBssyeerarlvdwualethniyoidcn'eshsrtoaPonorfdokfsettMoasrsasroes,"r-
kelyne's observations of the sun are still nearly useless," and
                        must continue so till
they and many   more                                          they    are reduced.
                have    happened if they had                  been    reduced and
This could not
compared with theory at the time ; and it cannot but grieve us
to see so much skill, labour and zeal thus wasted. The per
petual reference or attempt to refer observations, however nu
merous, to the most probable known rules, can alone obviate

sim"ilaItr   evils.     to many,               that  by thus  recommending   theory
            may appear
we incur the danger of encouraging theoretical speculations
XXli                          THIRD REPORT 1833.

to the detriment of observation. To do this would be indeed
to render an ill service to science : but we conceive that our
purpose cannot so far be misunderstood. Without here at
tempting any nice or technical distinctions between theory and

hypothesis, it may be sufficient to observe that all deductions
from theory for any other pupose than that of comparison with

observation are frivolous and useless exercises of ingenuity, so
far as the                   of physical science are
            interests                                 concerned.                        Specu
lators, if                    and inventive minds,                                     theories
            of active                                  will form

                                       These theories may be useful or
Ifwhether we wish it or no.

may be otherwise --we have
                                       examples of both results.                       the
theories merely stimulate the examination of facts, and are
modified as
erroneous,   and        when the   sfaticlltsbseugbgenesetficmiaol di;f--icatthioeny,   they may be
             but        they will                                                      may die, but
they will not have lived in vain. If, on the other hand, our
theory be supposed to have a truth of a superior kind to the
         tcooafsbeems co;--edritfayiinnwghinetdhneepetexhncedeopertnyiot,lnywseofteoitxspoeulaxrienmprapowlipfaiocysaitttiiohonensfainoctcspc,au--rr,
facts ;                 if,
ticular

instead

our theory then becomes our tyrant, and all who work under
its bidding do the work of slaves, they themselves deriving no
benefit from the result of their labours. For the sake of ex
ample we may point out the Geological Society as a body which,
labouring in the former spirit, has ennobled and enriched itself
                             any body of men should employ themselves
by its exertions        :

                          if

in the way last described, they must soon expend the small
stock of priori plausibility with which they must of course
beg"inTotheexwemorplldif.y the distinction for a moment longer, let be;
                                                          ;
           d
                                                                             it
recollected that we have at the present time two rival theories'
of the                  of the earth   which prevail in   the minds of geo
logists  h--istoonrey,  which asserts   that the changes  of which we trace

the evidence in the earth's materials have been produced by
causes such as are still acting at the surface another, which
considers that the elevation of mountain chains and the transi
tion from the organized world of one formation to that of the
next, have been produced by events which, compared with the
present course of things, may be called catastrophes and con
vulsions. Who does not see that all that those theories have

hitherto done, has been, to lead geologists to study more ex
actly the laws of permanence and of change in the existing
organic and inorganic world, on the one hand and on the
                                                      ?
                                                                      ;
other, the relations of mountain chains to each other, and to
the phaenomena which their strata present And who doubts,
that, as the amount of the full evidence may finally be, (which
                  PROCEEDINGS OF THE MEETING.                                           XXIII

may, indeed, perhaps require many generations to accumulate,)
geologists will give their assent to the one or the other of these
views, or to some intermediate opinion to which both may

Igra"dOuanllythecoontvheerrghe?and --to take     acnonecxearmn p--le    from a science  with
                                                                      the theory that   cry
which have had a professional
stalline bodies are composed of ultimate molecules which have
a definite and constant geometrical form, may properly and
philosophically be adopted, so far as we can, by means of
reduce to rules the actually occurring secondary faces of such
substances. But we assume the doctrine of such an atomic
                  if

                                                                                     it,

composition, and then form imaginary arrangements of these
atoms, and enunciate these as explanations of dimorphism,
or plesiomorphism, or any other apparent exception to the

general principle, we proceed, as appears to me, unphilosophi-
cally. Let us collect and classify the facts of dimorphism and
plesiomorphism, and see what rules they follow, and we may
then hope to discern whether our atomic theory of crystalline
molecules tenable, and what modifications of these cases,
I                                                                     ?;
              is                                                            ;
"uncontemplated in its original formation, now demand.
                                                                            it
          will not now attempt to draw forth other lessons which
the Report of last year may supply for our future guidance                                  is
although such offer themselves, and will undoubtedly affect
the spirit of our proceedings during this Meeting. But there                                                 ;
a reflexion belonging to what may call the morals of science,
I iswhich seems to me tolie on the face of this Report, and whichIt
cannot prevail upon myself to pass over. In looking steadilyis I
at the past history and         isbpmereiunscgehntsretsrmutaactikensowfittpohhdytoshiics--altahknonduogwahlgeta,di--ng,eH,noowwte
cannot, think, avoid
little done and how              I
withstanding this, how much we owe to the great philosophers
who have preceded us.
                                              sometimes advanced as a charge
against the studies of modern science, that they give men an
overweening opinion of their own acquirements, of the supe
riority of the present                           and of the intellectual power
and progress of man       --getnheartattiohne,y  make men confident and con
temptuous, vain and proud. That they never do this, wouldit
be much to say of these or of any other studies but, assuredly,;
those must read the history of science with strange preposses
sions who find in an aliment for such feelings. What the
picture which we have had presented to us Among all the
attempts of man to systematize and complete his knowledge,
there one science, Astronomy, in which he may be considered
is

to have been successful he has there attained a general and
                  :
                                           ;
certain theory for this success, the labour of the most highly
Xxiv          THIRD REPORT -- 1838.

gifted portion of the species for 5000 years has been requisite.
There is another science, Optics, in which we are, perhaps, in
the act of obtaining the same success, with regard to a part of
the phaenomena. But all the rest of the prospect is compara
tively darkness and chaos ; limited rules, imperfectly known,
imperfectly verified, connected by no known cause, are all that
we can discern. Even in those sciences which are considered

as having been most successful, as Chemistry, every few years
changes the aspect under which the theory presents the facts
to our minds, while no theory, as yet, has advanced beyond the
mere horn-book of calculation. What is there here of which
man can be proud, or from which he can find reason to be pre
posurwemesepsntuutochuasnpd?roAgthrneedsspeavseatns--itfhitfehyethhDeaiysvceomvmiegarhdeters--bteothewelhagotermeaattnhdemseecnoscnoifeifndcethenest
in the exercises of their intellectual                                              that
we should ape their mental attitudes                p? o--wweres,,   who  are  we,  with
                                                                    who   can
                                                                               but
pain and effort keep a firm hold of the views which they have
disclosed ? But it has not been so ; they, the really great in
the world of intellect, have never had their characters marked
with admiration of themselves and contempt of others. Their

genuine nobility has ever been superior to those ignoble and
low-born tempers. Their views of their own powers and achieve

ments have been sober and modest, because they have ever felt
how near their predecessors had advanced to what they had
done, and what patience and labour their own small progress
had cost. Knowledge, like wealth, is not likely to make us
proud or vain, except when it comes suddenly and unlearned ;
and in such a case, it is little to be hoped that we shall use
we"ll,Poerrhinacprseassoem, eouorf  ill-understood
                                    the appearance  possession.           estimation

                                                    of overweening
of ourselves and our generation which has been charged against
science, has arisen from the natural exultation which men feel

Iat witnessing the successes of art. need not here dwell upon

the distinction of science and art ; of knowledge, and the ap
plication of knowledge to the uses of life; of theory and
practice. In the success of the mechanical arts there is much
that we look at with an admiration mingled with some feeling
of triumph ;   and this feeling     aisstrhuegrgele,n--atuaraplerapnedtuabl lamcoenlefslisc.t
For what is   all such art but
with the inertness of matter and its unfitness for our purposes ?
And when, in this conflict, we gain some point, it is impossible
we should not feel some of the exultation of victory. In all
stages of civilization this temper prevails : from the naked in
habitant of the islands of the ocean, who by means of a piece
         PROCEEDINGS OF THE MEETING.                          XXV

of board glides through the furious and apparently deadly line
of breakers, to the traveller who starts along a rail-road with
a rapidity that dazzles the eye, this triumphant joy in suc
cessful art is universally felt. But we shall have no difficulty
in distinguishing this feeling from the calm pleasure which we
receive from the contemplation of truth. And when we con
sider how small an advance of speculative science is implied in
each successful step of art, we shall be in no danger of im

bibing, from the mere high spirits produced by difficulty over
come, any extravagant estimate of what man has done or can
do, any perverse conception of the true scale of his aims and

hop"eSs.till, it would little become us here to be unjust to prac

tical science. Practice has always been the origin and stimulus
of theory : Art has ever been the mother of Science ; the
comely and busy mother of a daughter of a far loftier and
serener beauty. And so it is likely still to be : there are no
subjects in which we may look more hopefully to an advance in
sound theoretical views, than those in which the demands of

practice make men willing to experiment on an expensive scale,
with keenness and perseverance ; and reward every addition
of our   knowledge with   an addition to  osuurchp--owwerh.o   And even
they --  for undoubtedly  there are many                      require no
such bribe as an inducement to their own exertions, may still
be glad that such a fund should exist, as a means of engaging

Iand"recompensing subordinate labourers.                      to follow
       will not detain you longer by endeavouring
more into detail the application of these observations to the
proceedings of the General and Sectional Meetings during the

Ipresent week. But may remark that some subjects, circum
Istanced exactly as have described, will be brought under
your notice by the Reports which we have reason to hope for
on the present occasion. Thus, the state of our knowledge of
the laws of the motion of fluids is universally important, since
the motion of boats of all kinds, hydraulic machinery, the tides,
the flowing of rivers, all depend upon it. Mr. Stevenson and
Mr. Rennie have undertaken to give us an account of different
branches of this subject as connected with practice ; and Mr.
Challis will report to us on the present state of the analytical
theory. In like manner the subject of the strength of materials,
which the multiplied uses of iron, stone and wood, make so inter
esting, will be brought before you by Mr. Barlow. These were
two of the portions of mechanics the earliest speculated upon,
and in them the latest speculators have as yet advanced little
beyond the views of the earliest.
XXvi              THIRD REPORT \83,1.

  I" mention these as specimens     only  aotftetnhteionp.ointsI       to which
                                    our                                will only
we may more particularly direct
observe, in addition, that if some studies, as for instance those
of Natural History and Physiology, appear hitherto to have
occupied less space in our proceedings than their importance
and interest might justly demand, this has occurred because
      RfpirreespstoenrinttsstMaonneceeottinh; egar.ndsuItbhnjeeecetdbsanlaaopntpceeaadrdwedilalnmyItohtrrienugsetafbsuyertthroeesortbootraenidnthiainst
the
the
the

subject. Among an assembly of persons such as are now met
in this place, there can be no doubt that the most important
and profound questions of science in its existing state will be
those which will most naturally occur in our assemblies and
discussions. It merely remains for me to congratulate the As
sociation upon the circumstances under which it is assembled ;
and to express my persuasion that all of us, acting under the
elevating and yet sobering thought of being engaged in the
great cause of the advancement of true science, and cherishing
the views and feelings which such a situation inspires, shall
derive satisfaction and benefit from the occasions of the present

week."

   Mr. Whewell having concluded his Address, the Meeting
adjourned, after electing by a general vote the candidates who
had been approved by the Council and by the General Com

mittee.

   At eight p.m., the Members having reassembled in the Senate-
house, Mr. Taylor read a Report on the state of our know

ledge respecting Mineral Veins, which was followed by a general
discussion on the nature and origin of veins.

   On Wednesday at one p.m., the Chairmen of the Sections hav
ing read the minutes of their proceedings to the Meeting, the
Rev. G. Peacock delivered a brief abstract of his Report on
the state of the Theory of Algebra. Professor Lindley read a
Report on the state of Physiological Botany ; and Mr. G. Ren-
nie on the state of Practical Hydraulics. Auditors were ap
pointed to examine the accounts.

   On Thursday,   at one p.m., the  oafutdhiteorSsecrteiopnosrteredadthethestmatei
of the accounts.
                   The Chairmen
nutes of their proceedings. Professor Christie read a Report
                sAtatseuomfmouarryknoofwtlheedgeconrteesnptesctoinfga  the Magnetism
on the present                                                         Report on the

of the Earth.
state of knowledge as to the Strength of Materials, by Pro
                  PROCEEDINGS OF THE MEETING.                            XXV|1

fessor Barlow, was given, in the absence of the Author, by the
Rev. W. Whewell.

    In the evening, Mr. Whewell delivered a Lecture in the
Senate-house, on the manner in which observations of the Tide
may be usefully made to serve as a groundwork for general
views ; either by observing the time of high water at different
places on the same day, in order to determine the motion of
the summit of the tide-wave ; or by continuing the observations
for a considerable time, and comparing them with the moon's
transit to obtain the semi-menstrual inequality. He observed,
that it appears from Mr. Lubbock's recent researches on the
subject, that the tides of Portsmouth and Brest agree very
closely in the law of this inequality, and that the tides of Ply
mouth and London also agree ; but that there is an anomaly
which cannot at present be explained in the comparison of Brest
with Plymouth. Professor Farish explained to the Meeting
the advantages which he conceived would be derived from ap
plying the power of steam to carriages on undulating roads in
preference to level rail-ways.

   On Friday, at  one p.m., the Chairmen of the           SJ.ecCtihoanlslishamvaindge
read the minutes  of their proceedings, the Rev.
a Report on the progress of the Theory of Fluids. The Pre
sident stated the appropriation* to certain scientific objects of
a portion of the funds of the Association to the amount of
600/. Mr. Babbage, at the President's request, explained his
views respecting the advantages which would accrue to science
             collection of                                he had formerly
from such a   under the     tintulemeorifca"l   facts as   of Nature and
recommended                                    Constants

Art." The President announced, that it had been resolved
by the General Committee, that the Meeting of 1834 should
take place at Edinburgh in the early part of the month of Sep
tember ; he read the names of the Officers and Members of the

Council appointed for the ensuing year.
The thanks of the Meeting were then voted to the Vice-
Chancellor and the other authorities of the University, to the
retiring Officers and Members of the Council, to the President,
the Secretaries for Cambridge, the Local Committee of Manage
ment, and the General Secretary.
The President, in his concluding Address to the Meeting,
explained an irregularity which had occurred in the formation
of a new Section. In addition to the five Sections into which
the Meeting had been divided by the authority of the General

c2* For a particular account of these appropriations,     see p. xxxvi.
XXviij                         THIRD REPORT -- 1 833.

Committee, he stated that another had come into operation, the

object of which was to promote statistical inquiries. It had
originated with some distinguished philosophers, but could not
be regarded as a legitimate branch of the Association till it had
received the recognition of the governing body ; there could be
little doubt, however, that the new Section would obtain the
sanction of the General Committee, with some limitation per
haps of the specific objects of inquiry. On this subject he
                              observations :--
ma"deSotmhee  following                         from  me      in reference  to the
              remarks         may be expected
objects of this Section, as several Members may perhaps think

I Ithem ill fitted to a Society formed only for the promotion of
Inatural science. To set, as far as am able, these doubts at
Irest, will explain what understand by science, and what
tIhuinndketrhsteanpdroptheer  objects of the Association.     By science, then,
                              consideration of all subjects,  whether of a pure
or mixed nature, capable of being reduced to measurement and

calculation. All things comprehended under the categories of
space, time and number properly belong to our investigations ;
and all phaenomena capable of being brought under the sem
blance of a law are legitimate objects of our inquiries. But there
are many important subjects of human contemplation which come
under none of these heads, being separated from them by new
elements ; for they bear upon the passions, affections and feel
ings of our moral nature.         Most important parts        oIf  our nature
                               ;   and God forbid that             should call
such elements indeed are

upon any man to extinguish them ; but they enter not among
the objects of the Association. The sciences of morals and
politics are elevated far above the speculations of our philosophy.
ICan, then, statistical inquiries be made compatible with our
objects, and taken into the bosom of our Society?                           think

they unquestionably may, so far as they have to do with matters
of fact, with mere abstractions, and with numerical results.

Considered in that light they give what may be called the raw
material to political economy and political philosophy ; and by
their help the lasting foundations of those sciences may be per
haps ultimately laid. These inquiries are, however, it is import
ant to observe, most           s--inpteticmhuealyatetbiloylennsd,co--tnhnetehmcestyeedltvoeuwschitwhtihthemtomhreaalignesppnhraeienranglosi
mena and economical

of passion and feeling,
zations of political science ; but when we enter on these higher

generalizations, that moment they are dissevered from the ob

jects of the Association, and must be abandoned by
                               the secure ground which        it
me"anSshnooutldtoandyeseornte  affirm (what, indeed, no                is

                                                                              it,

                                                                             if

                                                                                      it
                                                                has now taken.
                                                              one prepared
           PROCEEDINGS OF THE MEETINO.                 XXIX

to deny,) that all truth has one common essence, and should
he then go on to ask why truths of different degrees should be
thus dissevered from each other, the reply would not be dif
ficult. In physical truth, whatever may be our difference of
opinion, there is an ultimate appeal to experiment and ob
servation, against which passion and prejudice have not a
single plea to urge. But in moral and political reasoning, we
have ever to do with questions, in which the waywardness of
man's will and the turbulence of man's passions are among the
strongest elements. The consequence it is not for me to tell.
Look around you, and you will then see the whole framework
of society put in movement by the worst passions of our na
ture; you will see love turned into hate, deliberation into dis
cord, and men, instead of mitigating the evils which are about
them, tearing and mangling each other, and deforming the
moral aspect of the world. And let not the Members of the
Association indulge a fancy, that they are themselves exempt
from the             evils of humanity. There is that  wfiathbirnic,u--s,
           common     a flame, may consume our whole
which, if  put into
may produce an explosion, capable at once of destroying all
the principles by which we are held together, and of dissi
pating our body in the air. Our Meetings have been essen
tially harmonious, only because we have kept within our proper
boundaries, confined ourselves to the laws of nature, and
steered clear of all questions  in the decision of which bad

passions could have any play.    But if we transgress our pro

per boundaries, go into provinces not belonging to us, and open
a door of communication with the dreary wild of politics, that
instant will the foul Daemon of discord find his way into our
Ed"enInoefvPehryilocsoonpdhiyti.on of society there is some bright spot on
which the eye loves to rest. In the turbulent republics of
ancient Greece, where men seemed in an almost ceaseless war
fare of mind and'body, they had their seasons of solemnity, when
hostile nations made a truce with their bitter feelings, as
sembled together, for a time, in harmony, and joined in a great
festival ; which, however differing from what we now see in
its magnitude and forms of celebration, was consecrated, like
our present Meeting, to the honour of national genius. What
Iever have been the bitter feelings which have so often disgraced

the civil history of mankind, dare to hope that they will never
find their resting-place within the threshold where this Associa
tion meets ; that peace and good will, though banished from
every other corner of the land, will ever find an honoured seat
amongst us ; and that the congregated philosophers of the
empire, throwing aside bad passion and party animosity, will,
XXX                          THIRD REPORT \8SS.

year by year, come to their philosophical Olympia, to witness
a noble ceremonial, to meet in a pacific combat, and share in the
glo"riTohuse             of                                                                    of Truth.
              privilege      pushing                              on the   triumphal car       would be   a
              last duty  I   have to                              perform   this morning
painful one indeed, were our Assembly to be broken up into
elements which were not again to be reunited. The Association
is not, however, dissolved ; its meeting is only adjourned to an
other year; and it has been a matter of great joy to me to an
nounce to you, that the Committee has elected for your next
President a distinguished soldier and philosopher ; and that it
wophfilitllhobeseowpyohoruicldr ,pg--iraivninitlse,ag--ecitintyo                      of the
                                                                  reassemble in one            fairest capitals
                                                                                      a race   of literary and
                                                                  which has nursed    natural
                                                                  a land filled with             beauties, and

wedded to the imagination and the memory by a thousand en
de"arTinhgeraessoisciaatsioonlesm. nity in parting words, which may, I think,
justify me (especially after what has been so well said this morn

Iing by the Marquis of Northampton,) in passing the limits
have so  far                                                                                   ptlraecaed, inIgwfoourlda
moment    on  carefully prescribed to myself, and in
              more hallowed ground. In the first
entreat you to remember that you ought above all things to re
joice in the moral influence of an Association like the present.
Facts, which are the first objects of our pursuit, are of compa
ratively small value till they are combined together so as to

lead to some philosophic inference. Physical experiments, con
sidered merely by themselves, and apart from the rest of nature,
are no better than stones lying scattered on the ground, which

require to be chiselled and cemented before they can be made
       a building fit for the                                     habitation of   man. The true
into    experiment is, that it                                                     to some law, --   value
                                                                  is subordinate                    that it
of an
is a step toward the knowledge of some general truth. Without,
at least, a glimmering of such truth, physical knowledge has no
true nobility. But there is in the intellect of man an appetency
for the discovery of general truth, and by this appetency, in
subordination to the capacities of his mind, has he been led on to
the discovery of general laws ; and thus has his soul been fitted
                                                                  world a portion of the counsels of his
to reflect    bIafckI  upon  the                                  that physical phaenomena, unless con
Creator.               have  said
Inected with the ideas of order and of law, are of little worth,

  may further say, that an intellectual grasp of material laws of
the highest order has no moral worth, except it be combined
with another movement of the mind, raising it to the perception
of an intelligent First Cause. It is by help of this last movement
that nature's language is comprehended ; that her laws become
pregnant with meaning ; that material phaenomena are instinct
with life ; that all moral and material changes become linked
                  PROCEEDINGS OF THE MEETING.                                 XXXI

together ; and that Truth, under whatever forms she may pre
sent herself, seems to have but one essential substance.

  "I have before spoken of the distinctions between moral and

I Iphysical science ; and need not repeat what have said, unless
it be
path   once more   solemnly to adjure                  --yonuotnotto  to leave the straight
       by which   you are advancing,                                  desert the cause for

Ifmwhisiucnhdeyrosutanhdavemysomweaenllingco. mbinedI    together.       But let no one
                                                       have said      that bad passions

mingle themselves with moral and political sciences, and that
the conclusions of these sciences are made obscure from the
       of our                                      the elements with which we
want             cI ohmapvreehoennldyinsgpokeanll
have   to deal,                                    the truth ; but still I hold that
moral and political science is of a higher order than the physical.
The latter has sometimes, in the estimation of man, been placed
on a higher level than it deserves, only from the circumstance of
its being so well defined, and grounded in the evidence of ex
periments appealing to the senses. Its progress is marked by
indices the eye can follow ; and the boundaries of its conquests
are traced by landmarks which stand high in the horizon of
man's history. But with all these accompaniments, the moral

and political sciences entirely swallow up the physical in impor
tance. For what are they but an interpretation of the governing
laws of intellectual nature, having a relation in time present to
the social happiness of millions, and bearing in their end on the
des"tinGieenstleomf eimn,moirftaIl
                                     beings ?          with  delight  to our  meeting
                                    look forward
again at Edinburgh, it is a delight chastised by a far
feeling, to which, had not these been parting words,                          different

                                                                              I should
not have ventured to give an utterance. It is not possible
we should all again meet together. Some of those whose
voices have been lifted up during this great Meeting, whose
eyes have brightened at the presence of their friends, and
whose hearts have beat high during the intellectual commu
nion of the week, before another year may not be numbered
with the living. Nay, by that law of nature to which every
living man must in his turn yield obedience, it is certain that
Ifbefore another festival, the cold hand of death will rest on the
head of some who are present in this assembly.                        a thought
like this gives a tone of grave solemnity to words of parting, it
surely ought to teach us, during our common rejoicings at the
triumphal progress of science, a personal lesson of deep humility.
IBy the laws of nature, before we can meet again, many of those

bright faces which during the past week have seen around me
may be laid low, for the hand of death may have been upon
them; but wherever we reassemble, God grant that all our
attainments in science may tend to our moral improvement; and
XXxii           THIRD REPORT 1833.

may we all meet at last in the presence of that Almighty Being,
whose will is the rule of all law, and whose bosom is the centre
of all power!"

                SECTIONAL MEETINGS.

   The Sections assembled daily at eleven a.m., and occasion
ally also at half-past eight p.m., at their respective places of
meeting, in the Schools, the Astronomical Lecture-room, and
the Hall of Caius College. On Saturday, the Section of Na
tural History made an excursion to the Fens.

Abstracts of most of the Communications which were made
to the Sections will be found in a subsequent part of the

volume.

  In addition to the communications of which abstracts are
mthienruetegsiv:--en, notices of the following transactions appear on the
on MF.allQinugeteSlteatrsd.escrItibewdasthseugogbesestrevdatiotnhsat
                                                                      which  he had made
                                                                       such  observations
might be available in certain cases for determining differences
of longitude.

   Mr. Potter communicated some calculations of the height
of the Aurora Borealis, seen on the 21st of March 1833.
   Mr. Hopkins gave an abstract of a paper on the Vibration
of Air in Cylindrical Tubes of definite length.
Dr. Ritchie made some remarks on the Sensibility of the
Eye, and the errors to which it is subject.
   Mr. Barton gave a view of his opinions on the Propagation
of Heat in solid bodies.

  A letter was received from Mr. Frend regarding certain
points in the Theory of the Tides.
   The Rev.W. Scoresby described a Celestial Compass invent
ed by Col. Graydon.
   Mr. R. Murphy read some remarks on the utility of observ
ing the Magnetic Dip in Mines.
   M. Quetelet gave an account of some observations made by

himself and M. Necker de Saussure, which corroborate the
statements of M. Kuppfer, respecting the inequality of magne
tic intensity at the top and the base of mountains.
Professor Christie stated his views relative to the cause of
the Magnetism of the Earth.
Mr. A. Trevelyan read a paper on certain Vibrations of
Heated Metals.
Mr. Brunei exhibited and explained a Model in illustration
of his method of constructing Bridges without centering.
                 PROCEEDINGS OF THE MEETING.                XXXU1

   A notice of some experiments relative to Isomorphism, by
Dr. Turner and Professor Miller, was read.
   Dr. Daubeny made a communication on the Gases given off
from the surfaces of the water in certain thermal springs.

   The Rev. W. V. Harcourt exhibited specimens of Metal taken
out of the crevices at the bottom of a mould in which a large
bronze figure had been cast by Mr. Chantrey ; together with
fragments of the Bronze employed in the casting, from which
the former specimens differed considerably in colour, frangi-
bility, &c.
   Mr. Lowe gave an account of various chemical products

found in the retorts and flues of Gas Works.
Mr. Pearsall made a communication on the bleaching powers
of MOrx.ygJe. nT.aylor described the character of the Ecton Mine,
and the occurrence of the copper ore in connected cavities
which had been explored to a depth of 225 fathoms without
reaching the termination of them.
Dr. Buckland described the manner in which fibrous Lime
stone occurs in the Isle of Purbeck and other situations.
   Mr. Murchison stated, and illustrated by Maps and Sections,
the principal results of his inquiries into the sedimentary de
posits which occupy the western parts of Shropshire and Here
fordshire, and are prolonged in a S.W. direction through the
counties of Radnor, Brecknock, and Caermarthen, and the in
trusive igneous rocks which occur in certain parts of the di
strict. He mentioned the occurrence of freshwater Limestone
in a detached Coal-field of Shropshire.
   Professor Sedgwick described the leading features in the
Geology of North Wales, the lines of elevation, the relation of
the trap rocks to the slate system, the cleavage of the slate ;
           out the relations of this tract to that examined by Mr.
SoMinutrecdhison; and drew a general parallel between the slate
                 of Wales and   Cumberland.
forMmar.tioJn.s  Taylor having   read to the  Section  the                           -

                                                            concluding
part of his Report on Veins, in the discussion which followed,
M. Dufrenoy entered into a consideration of some phaenomena of
the igneous rocks of Britanny and Central France, viewed with

reference to the connexion between them and the metalliferous
veins of those districts, and remarked on the occurrence in
Central France of mineral veins, only in the narrow zone at the
junction of the unstratified and stratified rocks. He also made
some remarks on the association of dolomite and gypsum, with
the igneous rocks of the Alps and the Pyrenees.

   Professor Sedgwick gave a general account of the Red Sand
stones connected with the Coal-measures of Scotland, and the
XXxiv              THIRD REPORT 1833.

Isle of Arran, with the view of showing that they are perfectly
distinct from the similar rocks connected with the Magnesian

Limestone.
Mr. Hartop exhibited a Map and Sections to illustrate the
series of Coal Strata in South Yorkshire, and their direction and
varying dip in the valley of the Dun, and to the north and south
of that river; described the characters of the strata, and the in
fluence of certain great dislocations on the quality of the coal.
Mr. Greenough exhibited a Map of Western Europe, on
which the relative levels of land and water were represented by
means of colours, instead of engraving. Mr. Greenough was
              Jp.eHrmaiiltstaonmeapcoomn mthuinsicpalatend  to be published.
requested to                                                  some notices relating

   The Rev.
to Mineral Veins.
Sections of the Well in the Dock Yard at Portsmouth, and
of the Well in the Victualling Yard at Weevil, were communi
cated by the Rev. Mr. Leggat and Mr. Blackburn, on the part
of the Portsmouth Philosophical Society ; and a letter from
Mr. Goodrich, explanatary of the Sections, was read.
Mr. Mantell exhibited a perfect Femur of the Iguanodon,
               its distinctive anatomical characters.
and explained  Trevelyan exhibited specimens of             Coprolites,

   Mr. W. C.
and remains of Fishes, from the Edinburgh Coal-field.
Mr. Fox exhibited specimens of Fishes from the Magnesian
Limestone and Marl-slate of Durham.
Mr. Gray made some remarks on the occurrence of Water
in the Valves of Bivalve Shells, and exhibited a specimen of
Spondylus varius, in which water was contained in both the

valves.

   Mr. Ogilby gave an account of his views respecting the
classification of Ruminating Quadrupeds, which he proposed to
found upon the presence or absence of horns on the female sex ;
the peculiar form of the upper lip ; and the presence or absence
of the subocular and submaxillary glands. He showed the ap
plication of these views to the division of hollow-horned rumi
nating animals without horns in the female sex, which he dis
tributed into five new genera.

   The Rev. W. Scoresby communicated some observations on
the adaptation of the Structure of the Cetacea to their habits
of life and residence in the Ocean ; and suggested the use
which might be made of the peculiar forms of the Whalebone

in their classification.
   Lieutenant Colonel Sykes exhibited a specimen of the Short-
tailed Manis, and communicated some observations on its mode
of progression.
   Mr. Brayley communicated a memoir on the laws regulating
PROCEEDINGS OF THE MEETING.                             XXXV

the distribution of the powers of producing Light and Heat
among Animals.

   Mr. H. Strickland made some remarks on the Vipera Chersea,

showing its specific difference from the common Viper.
   The subject of the use of the Pith in Plants, was discussed

by Professor Burnett, Professor Henslow, Mr. Curtis, and Mr.

Gray.
   Dr. Roupell exhibited some Drawings representing the

effects of irritant Poisons upon the living membrane of the in
testinal canal of Men and Animals.

  Mr. Fisher communicated some observations on the physical
condition of the Brain during sleep.

   Mr. Brooke made some remarks on the physiology of the
Eye and the Ear.

   Dr. Marshall Hall gave an abstract of his views respecting
the reflex function of the Medulla oblongata and Medulla spi

nalis.

                          COMMITTEES.

The General Committee met daily at ten a.m., and at other
hours by adjournment, in the Hall of Trinity Hall. The Com
mittees of Sciences met as soon after ten as the business of the
General Committee permitted, in the rooms of their respective
Sections. The General Committee made the necessary arrange
ments for the conduct of the Meeting ; formed the Sectional
Committees of Sciences; determined the place and time of the
pnaesxstedMetheetinfgoll;oawpinpoginRteedsoluthteionnsew:--Officers and Council ; and
   1. That the thanks  of the  Association be
and Institutions from          it has received  ginivveitnatitoontsh,e--SoincieBtrieiss
                       which

tol, Birmingham, Liverpool, Newcastle and Edinburgh.
2. That Members of the Association whose subscription shall
have been due for two years, and who shall not pay it on proper
notice, shall cease to be Members, power being left to the Com
mittee or Council to reinstate them on reasonable grounds
within one year, on payment of their arrears.
3. That the number of Deputies which provincial Institutions
shall be entitled to send to the Meetings as Members of the
General Committee, shall be two from each Institution.
4. That the following instructions be given to each of the Com
mittees of Sciences :---
To select those points of science, which, on a review of the
former Recommendations of the Committees, or those contained
XXXvi              THIRD REPORT -- 1833.

in the Reports published by the Association, or from sugges
tions made at the present Meeting, they may think most fit to
be advanced by an application of the funds of the Society,
either in compensation for labour, or in defraying the expense
of apparatus, or otherwise. The Committee are requested to
confine their selections to definite as well as important objects ;
to state their reasons for the selection, and where they may
think proper, to designate individuals to undertake the desired
investigations ; they are to transmit their Recommendations
through their Secretaries to the General Committee.
The Committees of Sciences having complied with these in
structions, the following Resolutions were passed by the General

Committee :
   1. That a sum not exceeding 2001. be devoted to the dis
cussion of observations of the Tides, and the formation of Tide
Tables, under the superintendence of Mr. Baily, Mr. Lubbock,
Rev. G. Peacock, and Rev. W. Whewell.
2. That a sum not exceeding 50/. be appropriated to the
construction of a Telescopic Lens, or Lenses, out of Rock Salt,
under the direction of Sir David Brewster.
   3. That Dr. Dalton and Dr. Prout be requested to institute
experiments on the specific gravities of Oxygen, Hydrogen, and
Carbonic Acid ; and that a sum not exceeding 50/. be appropri
ated to defray the expense of any apparatus which may be re

quired.
4. That a series of experiments on the effects of long con
tinued Heat be instituted at some iron furnace, or in any other

suitable situation ; and that a sum not exceeding 50/. be placed

at the disposal of a Sub-Committee, consisting of Professor
Daubeny, Rev. W. V. Harcourt, Professor Sedgwick, and Pro
fessor Turner, to meet any expense which may be incurred *.
   5. That measurements should be made, and the necessary
data procured, to determine the question of the permanence or
change of the relative Level of Sea and Land on the coasts of
Great Britain and Ireland ; and that for this purpose a sum
not exceeding 100/. be placed at the disposal of a Sub-Com
mittee, consisting of Mr. Greenough, Mr. Lubbock, Mr. G.
Rennie,  P; --roftehessomreaSsuerdegmweinctks,  Mr. Stevenson, and     Rev. W.
Whewell
                                                to be so executed, as  to furnish
the means of reference in future times, not only as to the re
lative levels of the land and sea, but also as to waste or exten
sion of the land.

   · These experiments have been instituted by Mr. Harcourt, in Yorkshire, at
the Low Moor Iron Works, the property of Messrs. Hird and Co., and at the
Elsecar Furnace, belonging to Earl Fitzwilliam.
PROCEEDINGS OF THE MEETING.                    XXXV11

  6. That the effects of Poisons on the Animal Economy should

be investigated and illustrated by graphic representations ; and
that a sum not exceeding 251. be appropriated for this object.
Dr. Roupell, and Dr. Hodgkin were requested to undertake
this investigation.

   7. That the sensibilities of the Nerves of the Brain should

be investigated ; and that a sum not exceeding 251. should be

appropriated to this object. Dr. Marshall Hall and Mr. S. D.
Broughton were requested to undertake these experiments.

   8. That a sum not exceeding 100/. be appropriated towards
the execution of the plan proposed by Professor Babbage, for
collecting and arranging the Constants of Nature and Art*.

   9. That a representation be submitted to Government on the
part of the British Association, stating that it would tend greatly
to the advancement of astronomy, and the art of navigation, if the
observations of the sun, moon and planets, made by Bradley,
Maskelyne and Pond, were reduced ; and that a deputation + be
appointed to wait upon the Lords of the Treasury with a re
quest, that public provision may be made for the accomplish
ment of this great national object.

   Proposals for the formation of a Statistical Section were ap
proved. It was resolved, that the inquiries of this Section should
be restricted to those classes of facts relating to communities of
men which are capable of being expressed by numbers, and
which promise, when sufficiently multiplied, to indicate general

laws.

   A Committee of Statistical Science was formed %· The Re

commendations § of the several Committees of Science were re
vised and approved.

TRUSTEES OF THE ASSOCIATION.

   Charles Babbage, F.R.S. Lucasian Professor  of Mathe

matics, Cambridge.

   R. I. Murchison, F.R.S. V.P.G.S. &c.
   John Taylor, F.R.S. Treas. G.S. &c.

   · For an abstract of Mr. Babbage 's plan, see the Appendix.
  t The deputation consisted of Professor Airy, Mr. Baily, Mr. D. Gilbert and
Sir John Herschel. The application was immediately complied with by the Go

vernment.

   | For an account of the proceedings of this Committee, see the Appendix.
   § These Recommendations will be found marked with an asterisk in the col
lection of Recommendations and Suggestions printed in the latter part of the

volume.
xxxviii                      THIRD REPORT -- 1833.

                             OFFICERS.

President.-- Rev. Adam Sedgwick, F.R.S. G.S. and Wood-
wardian Professor     --ofGG.eoBl.ogAyi,ryC, aFm.Gbr.iSd.geP.lumian
    Vice-Presidents.                                                                                                                  Professor                                                of
Astronomy, Cambridge. John Dalton, D.C.L. F.R.S. Instit.
Reg. Sc. Paris. Corresp.

  President elect.-- Lieut. Gen. Sir T. M. Brisbane, K.C.B.
F.R.S. L. & E. President of the Royal Soc. Edinb. Inst.
FR.eRgV..iSce.S-cPL. r.ePs&airdiEse.n. tCsoRererleevcs.tp.J--.. RSoirbDinasvoind,
                                                                                   Brewster, K.G.H.                                                                                            LL.D.
                                                                                   D.D. Astronomer
                                                                                                                                                                                                Royal
at Armagh.
Treasurer.-- John Taylor, F.R.S. Treas. G.S.
General         SSeeccrreetatarryy.--. --RJoehv.nWPh. ilVlip. sH, arFc.oRu.rSt,.                                                      F.R.S. G.S.
Assistant                                                                                                                             G.S. Professor
Lo.fSSG.eecoPrlerootgafeyrisesinsorfKoionrfg'BOs oxtCfaoonrlldye..g--e, RCLehovan.rldeBos.n.DPoawubeell,nyF, .RM..SD..
JGParm.oSSSfeee.ecscsPrrsereDootta.rfareirFesoiesosfosrGbrfefeoooosm,rfr BeFEtCo.rRdtyaai..mnSnby.bu.rLridg.ghR&e.e.--vE--..JRWoFeh..vGn.W.SJRh..eoSbwP.riesoolfHl,enes,nFsos.RSlroe.wSco..,f   F.R.S.
                                                                                                                                                                                               Savilian

                                                                                                                                                                                                F.L.S.

                                                                                                                                                                                                &c.

                                                                                                                                                                                               R.S.E.

                                                                                                                                                                                               Natural

Philosophy.      Dublin.     --Rev.   Thomas                                                                                   Luby.

  Secretary for

                             COUNCIL.
Rev. W. Buckland, D.D. F.R.S. Professor of Geol. and Min.
Oxford. W. Clift, F.R.S. Rev. T.Chalmers, D.D. Professor of
Divinity, Edinburgh. S. H. Christie, F.R.S. Professor of Ma
thematics at Woolwich. Earl Fitzwilliam, F.R.S. G.S. G.B.
Greenough, F.R.S. Pres. of the Geol. Society. T. Hodg-
kin,   M.D.     LoWnd.onJ..   W. R.   Hamilton, Astronomer Royal
for                                   F.R.S. Professor of Botany,
      Ireland.               Hooker,
Glasgow. Robert Jameson, F.R.S. Professor of Natural Hi
story, Edinburgh.  oJfoLhonndLoinnd. leyJ,.  F.R.S. Professor of Botany
in the University                            W. Lubbock, Treas. R.S.
Rev. B. Lloyd, D.D. Treas. Prov. of Trin. Coll. Dublin.
R. I. Murchison, F.R.S. &c. Patrick Neill, M.D. F.R.S.E.

Edinburgh. George Rennie, F.R.S. Rev. W. Ritchie, LL.D.
mdFo.eRnSm.e.Sbcr.eeJr.tsPa,rrS--oi.efseTT.srhsa--eoirlElT,odrufwMsNa.tDaredte..sTPuaWhrninld.oesYrOo,afpfrMhircey.eDlrls,i.n   the University of Lon
James Yates, F.L.S. G.S.                                                                                                       F.L.S. &c. Ex officio
                                                                                                                               of the Association.
                                                                                                                               F.R.S. Sec. G.S. Rev.
         PROCEEDINGS OF THE MEETING.                                                                                           XXXIX

         COMMITTEES OF SCIENCES.

         I. Mathematics and General Physics.
Chairman. -- Sir D. Brewster, F.R.S. &c.
Deputy Chairman. -- Rev. G. Peacock, F.R.S.
Secretary.-- Professor Forbes.
Viscount Adare, F.R.S. Professor Airy. Professor Bab-
bJR.aegvBe.o.wHstF.eraadCn.ocdisdSiBniargitTloy.n, ,MV.F.P.BR.rR.isS.bS.a.neE,J.oFh.JRn..SBC. aorotPporenor,f.eFs.sRDo.rrS. .ChCroiRsrrteiieev,..
F.R.S. G. Dollond, F.R.S. Lieut. Drummond. Davies
Gilbert, D.C.L. F.R.S. Rev. R. Greswell, F.R.S. Pro
fessor W. R. Hamilton. Hon. C. Harris, F.G.S. G. Harvey,
F.R.S. Sir John F. W. Herschel, F.R.S. E. Hodgkinson.
W. Hopkins. John Hymers. Rev. Professor T. Jarratt.
Rev.   Dr. Lardner, F.R.S. Rev.  Dr. Lloyd. Professor                                                                          Lloyd.
        Lubbock, Treas. R.S. R.   Murphy, F.R.S.                                                                                 Phil-
J. W.
pott. R. Potter, jun. Professor Powell. Professor Quetelet.
Professor Rigaud. Rev. Dr. Robinson. Rev. R. Walker,
F.R.S. W. L. Wharton. C. Wheatstone. Rev. W. Whewell,
F.R.S. Rev. R. Willis, F.R.S.

DSCeehcparuiertmtyaarynC..h----airPJIm.Ir.oaDnfeC.ashl--tseoomnrR,iesMtvDri.yl.l,eCPrr..MoLfi.enseFsr.oaRrl.oSgC.yu,mmQinc.g.
Professor Daniell. Professor Daubeny. M. Faraday,
D.C.L.   WRe. vH. aWtf.eiVlde,rnFo.nG.HS.arcJo.urFt.,  F.R.S. W. Snow Harris,
F. R.S.                                                W. Johnston, A.M.
D. Lardner, LL.D. F.R.S. Rev.                           B. Lloyd, LL.D.                                                        TR.evJ..
Pearsall. Dr. Prout, F.R.S. Professor W. Ritchie. Rev. W.
Scoresby, F.R.S. W. Sturgeon. Professor Turner.

         III. Geology and Geography.
   Chairman. -- G. B. Greenough, F.R.S. Pres. G.S.
MuDrechpiustoyn,ChFa.Rir.mSe. nV.--.PR.Gev..S.Dr. Buckland, F.R.S. G.S. R. I.

   Secretaries. -- W. Lonsdale, F.G.S. John Phillips, F.R.S.

G. S.
Dr. Boase. James Bryce, jun. F.G.S. Joseph Carne,
F. R.S. G.S. Major Clerke, C.B. F.R.S. M. Dufrenoy. Sir
Philip                   Grey Egerton, F.R.S. G.S.      Dr. Fitton, F.R.S.
G. S.    MRaelvp.asJ.de  Hailstone, F.R.S. G.S.        Professor Harlan.
G. Mantell, F.R.S. G.S. Lieut. Murphy, R. E. Marquis of
Xl THIRD REPORT -- 1833.

Northampton, F.R.S. G.S. Rev. Professor Sedgwick. Colonel
Silvertop, F.G.S. W. Smith. John Taylor, F.R.S. Treas.
G.S.  J.WY.ateCs. ,              F.G.S.         H. T. M. Witham, F.G.S.
Rev.                 Trevelyan,
                      F.G.S.

                     IV. Natural History.
    DSCeehcparuiertmtyaarinCe.hs--.a--irRmCeva. .nC.W.--B. RaLbe.ivn.Pgt.Lo.GnJ,aernFny.oLnn.ssS,,.FF..LLD..S.S..Don, F.L.S.
    Professor Agardh.   G.                      BJe.ntBhuarmch, eSlle.c.  Hort. Soc. F.L.S.
J.                      W.
     Blackwall, F.L.S.                                                    Professor Burnett.
             F.L.S. Allan Cunningham, F.L.S.                              J. Curtis,F.L.S.
W.Christy,   F.R.S. Treas. L.S. G. T. Fox,                                 F.L.S. J. E.
E. Forster,
Gray, F.R.S. Rev. Professor Henslow. Rev. Dr. Jermyn.
JFR..eLvS..aSb.Wine.,DKriFr..bRyJ..,S.FC..LR.S.PS.r.ichLPa.S.rd.J,. PSrFeo.lfRbey.sS,so.Fr.LLJ..iSn.dFl.eyJ..RoFyW.leS.,teOFpgh.Lielb.nSys,.,
F.L.S.   H.Strickland.  WC. oGlo.neWl Seyrksceosw, .F.R.JS..               L.S. Richard
         F.L.S. G.S.                                                      O. Westwood,
Taylor,
F. L.S. W. Yarrell, F.L.S.

                     V. Anatomy, Medicine, §c.
    Chairman. -- Dr. Haviland.
    DSeecpruettyariCesh.a--irmDar.n.B--onDdr..  Clark.
                                                 Mr. Paget.
    Dr. Alderson. S. D. Broughton, F.R.S. W. Clift, F.R.S.
G. S. Dr. Dugard. H. Earle, F.R.S. Dr. Marshall Hall,
F.R.S. Dr. Hewett. Dr. Malcavey. Dr. Macartney. Pro
fessor Mayo. Dr. Paris, F.R.S. Dr. Prout, F.R.S. Dr.
Roget, F.R.S. G.S. Dr. Thackeray. Dr. D. Thorp.

                        VI. Statistics.
                ----JP.roEfe.sDsorrinkBwabatbearg, e.M.A.
    Chairman.
    Secretary.
    H. Elphinstone, F.R.S. W. Empson, M.A. Earl Fitz-
william, F.R.S. H. Hallam, F.R.S. E. Halswell, F.R.S.
Rev. Professor Jones. Sir C. Lemon, Bart. F.R.S. J. W.
Lubbock, Treas. R.S. Professor Malthus.                                   Capt. Pringle.
M. Quetelet. Rev. E. Stanley, F.L.S. G.S.                                 Colonel Sykes,
F.R.S. F.L.S. G.S. Richard Taylor, F.L.S. G.S.
                                      [ .1 ]

                     TRANSACTIONS.

Report on the State of Knowledge respecting Mineral Veins.
   By John Taylor, F.R.S., Treasurer of the Geological So
  ciety and of the British Association for the Advancement of
   Science, Sfc. §c.

A HAVE found it very difficult to execute the task proposed to

me in a manner satisfactory to myself, as we have at this time

no digested account of the views entertained by geologists of
the present day upon this interesting subject. The most per
fect treatise is that of Werner, which deserves much attention
for the observation of facts which it displays; but as it was
written to propound a theory, and as that theory depended
upon views of the structure of the crust of the earth which
modern geology has at least thrown much doubt upon, so his
work cannot be taken as an outline of our present state of

knowledge.
   Since his  time   but little has  bbeeeenn,atItetmhipntke,d    respecting vein
formations ;  and   the subject has                             rather neglected
by geologists, who have advanced other branches of the science
with extraordinary skill, industry and success. Detached pa
                                                         authors, among which
pers  have, indeed,  appeared by     English            Joseph Carne, holds a
that  on the veins   of Cornwall,    by Mr.

distinguished place.
atteAnsdesdometo,prIowofoutlhdatretmhaerks, ubthjeactt  of veins has not been much
                                                        in the Second Series of the

Transactions of the Geological Society of London, consisting
now of the first and second volumes complete, and two Parts of

the third volume, no paper expressly on veins is to be found.
In the First Series there are two papers, one by the late Mr.
W. Phillips, giving an outline of facts more generally observed
with respect to veins in Cornwall, from observations made
principally in the year 1800. Another is by Dr. Berger, on
the physical structure of Devon and Cornwall, from observa
tions made in 1809. The writer adopts the Wernerian theory,
and mentions cases which he thinks confirmatory of its truth.
In the four volumes of the Transactions of the Royal Geo
logical Society o*f Cornwall, we shall find this subject more
1833.                 b
g THIRD REPORT 1833.

attended to, and there are several communications relating to
it : among the authors are Dr. Boase, Mr. Came, Dr. Davey,
Mr. R.  W. Fox, and                IMr. John Hawkins. One of the
by Mr.                                                                     papers
        Came is that               to which have before alluded.
One of the most recent works by foreign writers is that of
the late M. Schmidt of Siegen. He was an experienced prac
tical miner, and wrote chiefly with a view to his art, describing

the various derangements in mineral veins, and tracing the best
rules to be observed in pursuing researches in difficult circum
stances. He adopts the Wernerian theory of formations, and
refers to the author of it as the great master of the subject.
   Though no general theory has of late been produced in re
gular form, yet with the great attention that has been given to
geology by so many eminent men, an extended field of observa
tion has taken place, leading to a very general change of opi
nion on most important points ; many conjectures respecting the
formation of veins have sprung up, and which, when the facts
are more investigated, and they shall have been recorded and
classified, may form the groundwork for a more enlarged and
rational theory, by which their phaenomena and structure may
be explained, and the causes of their formation, the manner of
filling up, and the circumstances of the varied derangements

and dislocations, may be traced and be better understood.
The subject is of threefold importance : first, as it relates to
science, wherein a better knowledge of veins generally must
very materially contribute to sound investigations as to the

structure of the rocks that inclose them : secondly, as it is much
owing to the pursuit of the minerals which are deposited in veins
that we have acquired and may yet extend our knowledge of
geology in general : thirdly, in relation to the question some
                                                           of geological science,   the
times  proposed as   to the usefulness                     it be considered that    this
most   ready answer
                     may be given, if
inquiry will relate to subjects of practical utility, in which man
kind are
   Before  uInivperorsceaelldy  and largely interested.
                                           account of the opinions as to the
formation   of veins,           I  to any  offer some definition descriptive of
                                   would
their character and structure, that in proceeding with our sub
jecWt werenmeraylaycsleaitrldyouwnnd, e"rsTtahnadt  what
                                                    veins  is meant to be  treated  on.
                                                           are particular  mineral  re
positories, of a flat or tabular shape, which
the strata of mountains, and are filled with               in general traverse

                                                           mineral matter dif
fering more or less from the nature of the rocks in which they
occ"uVr.eins cross the strata, and have a direction different from

theirs. Other mineral repositories, such as particular strata or
                    REPORT ON MINERAL VEINS.     8

beds, of whatever thickness they occur, have, on the contrary,
a similar direction with the strata of the rock, and instead of
crossing, run parallel with them : this forms the characteristic
difference."
   Playfair says :  " Veins are of various  kinds, and may in ge
neral be defined, separations in the continuity of a rock, of a
determinate width, but extending indefinitely in length and
depth, and filled with mineral substances different from the
rock itself. The mineral veins, strictly so called, are those filled
with sparry or crystallized substances, and containing the me
Itallic ores."
   Mr. Carne
              says :  " By a true vein  understand the mineral

contents of a vertical or inclined fissure, nearly straight, and
of indefinite length and depth. These contents are generally,

but not always, different from the strata or the rocks which the
vein intersects. True veins have regular walls, and sometimes
a thin layer of clay between the wall and the vein ; small
branches are also frequently found to diverge from them on
both sides."
Mr. Carne mentions other veins, which he distinguishes from
the true ones as being shorter, crooked, and irregular in size ;
he considers these to have formed in a different manner : but

this will be discussed hereafter.

These definitions seem to me to be sufficient for our pur
pose ; but it may be advantageous here to introduce some
further description of circumstances connected with veins, and

to explain the terms usually employed to describe them.
   Being tabular masses, generally of no great width, any one
will, whether vertical or inclined, present at its intersection
with the surface a line nearly straight : this may be from north
to south, or from east to west, or in any intermediate course.
This is usually called the direction ; by miners frequently the
run of the vein, or the course of the vein, and is denoted by the
points of the compass it may cross.
The length, as Werner states, is indefinite, it being doubtful
whether any vein has been pursued to a perfect termination.
   The tabular mass, again, may be either vertical to the plane

of the earth's surface, or may deviate from this position by in
clining to one side or the other of the perpendicular. This
deviation is called the inclination of the vein ; by the Cornish
miners the underlie. It is measured by the angle made with
the perpendicular ; and as the dip will be to one side of the
direction, the latter being known, the other is easily expressed.
   The depth to which veins descend into the earth is unknown,
as well as the length, and for the same reason.

                                      b2
 4 THIRD REPORT 1833.

    The only dimension we can ascertain is that across from one
side to the other of the tabular mass, and is measured from one
wall to the other, which is the term used in England for the
cheeks or sides presented by the inclosing rock. This dimen
sion is called the width, or frequently the size of the vein.

    The width varies considerably in the same vein. In Europe
a vein containing ore is considered to be a wide one if it ex
ceeds five or six feet. In Mexico the width of veins is gene
rally greater.

    In metalliferous veins the deposits of ore are extremely irre
gular, forming masses of very diversified form and extent, and
are separated from each other by intervening masses of vein
stone or matrix, either entirely devoid of ore, or more or less
mixed with it. It is rare to find a vein entirely filled with ore
in any part.

    In this respect they differ from most beds, where, as in those
of coal, the whole is a uniform mass.

    The layer of clay, which, as Mr. Carne says, is frequent in
such veins, will deserve particular notice when we consider
their general structure and the theories of their formation :
this is called Saal-bande by the Germans, and flookan by the
Cornish miners.

   The clearest idea of a vein will be obtained by imagining a
crack or fissure in the rocks, running in nearly a straight line,
extending to great and unknown length and depth, and filled

Iwith various substances.

       do not intend by this description to convey any theoretic
opinion as to the manner in which such fissures may have been
formed, or as to the mode of their being furnished with their
present contents. These are subjects on which the greatest
diversity of opinion has existed in former times, and this diver

sity is continued to the present period. It is the main business

dsoeifsnttthruissstatRteoepfoomfrtykntpooowwsleteadrtgeetothdoeosfeitthoijspuisntdiiocifnefsi;c, ublatnudtsuItboajemdcet.secnrcibIoeufreaoegluerdgprerbaeyt

the idea that a feeble sketch may induce abler hands to pursue
the design, and throw more and more light upon this interesting
branch of geology.

   It would be of little use to go into details of the conjectures
of ancient authors, or into the mysteries with which this sub
ject was enveloped in the age of alchemy.

   The earliest writer who is worthy to be consulted is Agricola
(whose proper name was Bauer) : he resided in the Saxon Erz-
gebirge, and died in the middle of the sixteenth century. He
has been called the father of mineralogy, and of the science of
             REPORT ON MINERAL VEINS.                                         O

mining. He had the rare merit of emerging from the mists and
clouds of an absurd school of philosophy, which had till then
obscured the objects which it pretended to illustrate ; and he
first subjected them to inquiries prompted by sound reason and
just views of nature.
His writings were numerous, and in such pure Latin that
they are said to be entitled to a place among the classics. He
treats of veins in a work called Bermannus, but more particularly
in the third book of his great work De Re Metallica.
Agricola being held to be the first who has written anything
certain on the formation of veins, and his theory of the manner
of their being filled up having, with some modifications, been
for  Wa elornnegr,peIrisohdagllecnoemramlleyncreecefriovmed,
by                                                             and in   part  even adopted
                                                              his time   the
                                                                              notice of the
opinions promulgated by various writers antecedent to Werner
and Hutton.
Some have maintained, That veins and their branchings are
to be considered as the branches and twigs of an immense trunk
which exists in the interior of the globe :
   That from the bowels of the earth metallic particles issued
forth in the form of vapours and exhalations through the rents,
in the same manner as sap rises and circulates in vegetables.
   This speculation was proposed by Von Oppel, captain-ge
neral of the Saxon mines, who wrote in 1749. He was a skilful
miner and an accurate observer ; and it is singular that this opi
nion is not consistent with most that he has elsewhere said on

the subject, which generally rather agreed with the views which
were adopted by Werner and others.
   Henkel, who wrote in the early part of the seventeenth cen
tury, and who has been held to be the father of mineralogical
chemistry, first attributed the formation of the contents of veins
to peculiar exhalations : he supposed the basis of each metal
and mineral to have existed in the substance of the rock, and
to have been developed by a peculiar process of nature.
Becher about the same time supported very similar views.
Stahl, who commented upon the writings of Becher, had ad
vanced a somewhat similar opinion; but he afterwards rejected
this theory, and considered veins, as well as the substances of
which they are composed, as having been formed at the same
time with the earth itself.
Zimmerman, chief commissioner of mines in Saxony, who
died in 1747, had an idea that the variety of minerals contained
in veins had been produced by a transformation of the sub
stance of the rock.
Charpentier, in 1778, supported nearly similar opinions, and
6 THIRD REPORT \833.

combated strenuously against the theory which considers veins
to have been rents that were afterwards filled up by different

mineral substances.

   This is the theory, however, which, from the time of Agricola

to the present day, has been most generally received, namely,

that veins were fissures which have been since filled up by de
grees with mineral matters.

   The causes of such fissures, and the mode of their contents

being deposited, have been variously stated, and have given rise
to much conjecture; and allowing for these differences, the main
                                                             many writers. Among these
pI rwopouoslditinoanmheaAs gbreiceonlasu;pBpoarlttehdazabry  Rosier, an eminent miner of
Freyberg, who died in 1673; Hoffman, a commissioner of mines
at the same place, in 1746; Von Oppel, before mentioned, who,
though he had indulged in other speculations, distinctly lays
down in his Introduction to Subterranean Geometry, (Dres
den, 1749,) that veins were formerly fissures, open in their su
perior part, and that they traverse and intersect the strata.
   Bergman entertained opinions very similar, which were also

supported by Delius, an author on mining, of considerable ce

lebrity, who wrote about 1770.

   Gerhard, in his Essay on the History of the Mineral King

dom, (Berlin, 1781,) gives a collection of interesting facts con

cerning veins, and considers them to have originally been rents,
which were afterwards filled up with mineral substances.
  To this list may be added Lasius,
Mountains ofthe Hartz, in 1 787 ; and                        LininnhaiseuOsbissersvtaatteiodns"   on the
                                                                                                 to have
wondered at the nature of that force which split the rocks into
                                    that probably the cause is very familiar,
--thotsheatcrtahcekys  ; and adds,   moist, and cracked in drying *."
                       were formed
In England we have testimony to the same opinion from
Dr. Pryce, who wrote his Mineralogia Cornubiensis in 1778.
He says, "When solid bodies were separated from fluid, certain
cracks, chinks and fissures in various directions were formed,
and as the matter of each stratum became more compact and
dense by the desertion of moisture, each stratum within itself
had its fissures likewise, which, for the most part, being in
fluenced by peculiar distinct laws, were either perpendicular,
oblique," &c.

   He afterwards adds, that those very fissures are the wombs
or receptacles of all metals, and most minerals. He assigns the
derangements of veins to the effect of fracture by violence, and
quotes subsidence as one of the probable causes of such dislo
cations. He says there can be no doubt that many alterations

                                    · Hill.
                         REPORT ON MINERAL VEINS.                I

have happened to various parts of the earth before, at, and
after the Flood, from inundations, earthquakes, and the dis

solvent powers of subterranean fire and water, which variety of

causes and circumstances must infallibly have produced many
irregularities in the disposition and situation of circumjacent
strata and lodes*.
He describes twelve kinds of lodes or veins in Cornwall,
naming them from their chief contents. But the most remark
able observation of Dr. Pryce is respecting the relative age of
veins, of which he seems to have given the first intimation.
Werner, long after, states this as a discovery of his own, and
as an essential part of his theory. His translator, however,

(Dr. Anderson,) does Pryce justice, and remarks that his ob
servations must have been unknown to Werner, who showed

much anxiety in all cases to confer on every writer the merit
which was due to him.
D" rB.ecAanudseersothne                        as one of much importance.
                         quotes   the passage  cross flookans run through
                           cross  gossans or
all veins of opposite directions, without the least interruption
from them, but, on the contrary, do apparently disjoint and
dislocate all of them, it seems reasonable to conclude, that the

east and west veins were antecedent to cross veins, and that

some great event, long after the Creation, occasioned those
transverse clefts and openings. But how or when this should

come to pass, we cannot presume to form any adequate ideaf ."
   Kirwan supports the doctrine that some veins were originally
open, as appears from the rounded stones and petrifactions
found in them. Thus, in the granitic mountain of Pangel in
Silesia there is a vein filled with globular basalt. So also in
veins of wacken, in Joachimstahl in Bohemia, trees and their

branches have been found.

   But he deems it improbable that all veins were originally
open to day, and filled from above. He inclines to the theory
of veins being filled by the percolation of solutions of the me

tals and earths.

   Having now taken a cursory view of the opinions held before
Werner published his Theory of Veins, and seen something of
the state of knowledge relating to this subject, we may bear
in mind the materials which he had to work with, and take
into account his well-known views as to the origin of rocks from

Iaqueous deposition, and we shall comprehend the system which

he developed, with respect to veins, in the only work, believe,
which proceeded from his own hand, and which was published

· 'Lode' is the term used in Cornwall for a metalliferous vein.
t Mincralogia Cornubiensis, p. 101.
 8 THIRD REPORT -- 1833.

 at Freyberg in 1791. Werner adopts, in the first place, the
 proposition that the spaces now occupied by veins were origi
 nally rents formed in the substance of rocks, and states that
 this is not a new opinion.

    He claims the merit of having ascertained in a more positive
 manner the causes which have produced these rents, and of
 having brought forward better proofs of it than had formerly

 been done.

    He admits that rents may be produced by many different
causes, but he assigns the greater part to subsidence. He lays
it down, that when the mass of materials of which the rocks
were formed by precipitation in the humid way, and which was
at first soft and moveable, began to sink and dry, fissures must
of necessity have been formed, chiefly in those places where
mountain chains and high land existed. He adds, that rents
and fissures are still forming from time to time in mountains
which have a close resemblance to those spaces now occupied
by veins, and that this happens in rainy seasons and from

earthquakes.

   He adduces as a proof of his assertions, that veins, in respect
of their form, situation and position, bear a strong resemblance
to rents and fissures which are formed in rocks and in the
earth ; that is to say, both have the same tabular figure, and
the deviations which they make from their general direction
are few in number and very inconsiderable ; and he remarks,
that all the veins of a mining district, more particularly when
they are of the same formation, have a similar direction, which
shows them to have been produced by the same general cause.

   But what Werner claimed as altogether new, and what he
challenges as his own particular discovery is,

   1. To have determined and described in a more particular
manner the internal structure of veins, as well as the formation
of the different substances of which they are composed, and to
have settled the relative age of each.

   2. To have given the most accurate observations and most
perfect knowledge of the meetings and intersections of veins,

and to have made these observations subservient to the deter
mining their relative ages.

   3. To have determined the different vein formations, parti

cularly metalliferous veins, as well as their age.

   4. To have been the first who entertained the idea that the

spaces which veins occupy were filled by precipitations from
the solutions, which at the same time formed by other precipi
tations the beds of mountains, and to have furnished proofs of
this: and,
                     REPORT ON MINERAL VEINS.                                 9

5. To have determined the essential differences that are
found between the structure of veins and that of beds.
Werner illustrates his propositions by many observations,
which his intimate acquaintance with the extensive mining di
stricts in which he was engaged gave him the power of observing
and recording ; and it must be conceded, at least, that his state
ment of facts, and his arrangement of them, give him a manifest
superiority over most writers upon this subject. Every one

who has had opportunity to see much of these storehouses of
nature will be struck with the accuracy of most of his descrip
tions, whether they admit the theory by which they are ex
plained, or not.
He allows that the enrichment of veins, or their being filled
with     oar.esAopr amrteitcaulsla, rmfailylinhgavuep
                                                       taken  place by,
     1.                                                 from  above.

         b. By particular internal canals.
    c. By infiltration across the mass of the vein.

2. A metallic vein may be increased by the junction of a new
metalliferous vein.
3. Though rarely, the richness of a vein may be the effect of
an elective attraction or affinity of the neighbouring rock.
The mode assigned by Werner for the formation of the
spaces now occupied by veins is still further demonstrated, in
his opinion, by the relation which veins have to one another ; as,
         Their intersecting one another.
         Their shifting one another.
         Their splitting one another into branches.
         Their joining and accompanying one another.
      Their cutting off one another.

All these peculiarities, he remarks, are produced by the ef
fects of a new fissure upon one that is older.
Subsidence having been the cause of fissures he thinks is
proved by the difference in the level in the parts of the same
stratum or bed in which a vein is inclosed ; and this throwing
up or down, as the miners term
                                                           it,
                                                                    is

                                                                           a
size of the vein.                                             bears proportion to the

The interior structure of many veins quoted to show that
the fissures had been originally open, and which had been af
terwards filled by degrees.
Such veins are composed of beds, arranged in a direction pa
rallel to their sides their crystallizations are supposed to show
                     ;

these beds to have been  deposited successively on each                       other,
and that those next the  walls have been first formed.
                                                                              A cir
cumstance much relied on, also, the existence of rolled masses
                                                       is

or water-borne stones, fragments of the adjacent rock, some
10 THIRD REPORT 1833.

times forming a breccia, remains or impressions of organic bo
dies, coal and rock salt substances of recent formation, and other
matters, which should appear to have come in from above.
   This theory obtained considerable attention, and was very
Igenerally adopted from the time of its being made known ; and

it has, believe, many adherents at this day, particularly among
miners or those who have much opportunity of actual observa
tion.
   Hutton's Theory of the Earth was published afterwards, in

1795; and as his views regarding the operations employed in
the formation of the structure of the rocks differed entirely
from those who assigned to them an aqueous origin, so it will
readily be supposed that he would promulgate a new explana
tion of the formation of veins.

   According     --to  Playfair,  this  theory  embraced  the following
propositions
              :

It allowed that veins are of a formation subsequent to the
hardening and consolidation of the strata which they traverse,
and that the crystallized and sparry structure of the substances
contained in them shows that these substances must have con
creted from a fluid state.
It assumes that this fluidity was simple like that of fusion by
heat, and not compound like that of solution in a menstruum.
It is inferred that this is so from the acknowledged insolu
bility of the substances that fill the
and from the total disappearance        veins in any one  menstruum,

                                        of the solvent,   if there was

any, it being argued that nothing but heat could have escaped

from the cavities.

   It is further maintained, that as the metals generally appear
in veins in the form of sulphurets, the combination to which
their composition is owing could only have taken place by the
action of heat. And, further, that metals being also found na
tive, to suppose that they could have been precipitated pure
and uncombined from any menstruum, is to trespass against all

analogy, and to maintain a physical impossibility.

   It is therefore inferred, that the materials which fill the mi

neral veins were melted by heat, and forcibly injected in that
state into the clefts and fissures of the strata.
   The fissures must have arisen, not merely from the shrinking
of the strata while they acquired hardness and solidity, but

from the violence done to them when they were heaved up and
elevated in the manner which the theory has laid down.

   Slips or heaves of veins, and of the strata inclosing them,
are to be explained from the same violence which has been

exerted.
                     REPORT ON MINERAL VEINS.                 11

   It is admitted as interesting to remark, that in the midst of
the signs of disturbance which prevail in the bowels of the
earth, there reigns a certain symmetry and order, which indi
cates a force of incredible magnitude, but slow and gradual in
its effects.

   Further, that as a long period was required for the elevation

of the strata, the rents made in them are not all of the same
date, nor the veins all of the same formation. A vein that forces
the other out of its place, and preserves its own direction, is
evidently the more recent of the two.
The parallel coats lining the walls or sides of the vein, which
are attributed by Werner and others to aqueous deposition, are
ascribed to successive injections of melted matter.
Veins have been considered as traversing only the stratified
parts of the globe. They do, however, occasionally intersect
the unstratified parts, particularly the granite ; the same vein
often continuing its course across rocks of both kinds without

suffering material change.

  It is asserted that all the countries most remarkable for their

mines are primary, and that Derbyshire is the most considera
ble exception to this rule that is known.
   This preference which the metals appear to give to the pri

mary strata, is considered as consistent with Dr. Hutton's
theory ; and particularly as these strata, being the lowest, have
also the most direct communication with those regions from
which the mineral veins derive all their riches.
   In arguing further upon this theory, it is assumed that no
thing of the substances which fill the veins is to be found any
where at the surface ; and that, contrary to the allegation of
some that mineral veins are less rich as they go further down,
it is stated that this is not generally so, and that the mines in
Derbyshire and Cornwall are      richest in depth,            would
                                 from below.        as  they
be if filled with melted matter
Again, it is said that if veins were filled from above, and by
water, the materials ought to be disposed in horizontal layers
across the vein; and that this opinion is sufficiently refuted by
the fact that rarely any metallic ore is found out of the vein, or
in the rock on either side of and least of all where the vein
                              it,
richest.
is                                 ;
                 is
                                     I
   The foregoing seem to be the most important allegations in
support of the Huttonian theory and have taken them nearly
in the order in which they are given in Professor Playfair's
                                                              il

lustrations of this celebrated system.
There yet another doctrine regarding the formation of
veins, which, though          not of modern date, and has had but
                      it
                          is
12 THIRD REPORT 1833.

few supporters among writers upon the subject, has yet claims to
be considered, and particularly as it has of late been urged upon
our notice, and by some whose observations have been made in
districts where veins of various order are abundant.

   This theory is, in short, That veins were formed at the same
time with the rocks themselves ; that the whole was a contem
poraneous creation ; and that there have been neither fissures
subsequent to the consolidation of the mass, nor filling up from
above or below, or disturbances to produce the heaves or shifts
which we see.

  When this hypothesis was first proposed I do not know, but

that it was long since we may infer, as Agricola regards the
opinion which supposes veins such as we now see them to have
been formed at the same time with our globe, to be at variance
with fact, and he calls it the opinion of the vulgar. The same
hypothesis was indeed supported by Stahl ; but he seems to
have adopted it rather on account of the difficulties attendant
on any other explanation that had been proposed, than for any
good reason that he had to give.

   Such are, however, but assertions, to be received with doubt
by any one who inquires freely and without prejudice. Partial
evidence may appear for some such formations ; but it is another
affair to attribute all veins to such an origin, and thus to sweep
away at once the difficulty of explaining many complicated ap
pearances.

   The doctrine of a contemporaneous formation of veins has
lately found an advocate in Dr. Boase, in his paper on the
geology of Cornwall. After commenting on the division into
different orders, which Mr. Carne had indicated as to veins,
according to certain appearances in their direction and the
character of the substances with which they are filled, he says
he cannot detect any characters which are not common to all
the Cornish veins ; and since some of them are generally ac
knowledged to be contemporaneous with the rock, he concludes
that they have all the same origin.

   Dr. Boase, however, candidly sets out by stating that he had
purposely refrained from making inquiries at the mines con
cerning the phenomena of veins, and that his experience is
therefore principally confined to those which occur in cliffs,
quarries, and natural sections that are exposed to open view.

   Lest this admission should create surprise, he remarks that
such sources of information are invaluable as the only ones
easily available to exercise the senses on the nature of veins ;
for, unless to those much accustomed to descend into mines,
they may as well be visited blindfold.
             REPORT ON MINERAL VEINS.                    13

He remarks, however, as to the veins of Cornwall, that their

great irregularity in size and in form, their frequent ramifica
tions, their similarity of composition and intimate connexion
with the rocks which they traverse, and, above all, the large
masses of slate which they envelop, are all circumstances to
disprove their origin from fissures, and to support their con

temporaneous origin.
   Dr. Boase suggests that veins follow the arrangement of the

joints of the rocks, and that it may thus be explained why the
different series of veins cross each other, and why the veins of

each series are respectively parallel.
   And he thinks that thus we may suppose how veins which
are crossed may seem to abut or terminate against those that
are opposed thereto ; having, when in the same line, that pecu
liar appearance that has been attributed to intersection, and
the appearance of being heaved when on the opposite sides of
the cross vein, they are not on the same line, but occur in the
parallel joints of distant layers.

   The latter occurrence, he remarks, although very common,
is not however universal ; for, in some instances, the part of the

vein supposed to have been intersected has never been found.

   As Mr. Came had observed, that when contemporaneous
veins meet each other in a cross direction, they do not exhibit
the heaves and interruptions of true veins, but usually unite.
   Dr. Boase says that this statement is opposed to his obser
vations, and that the phenomenon of intersection is common to
all kinds of veins. Further, he expresses a doubt whether
heaves in veins are not after all rather apparent than real, but

explains that he does not mean to assert that they do not ex
hibit these phaenomena, but that this arrangement, as in the
case of small veins, only gives the appearance of being moved
Ifrom the
       have  original positions.      which, as  far as  I know, have
             now stated the opinions
been generally received on the subject of the formation of veins,
from which it will appear that there are three leading hypo

theses.
1st. That which supposes them to have been open fissures,

caused by disruption, and occasioned principally by subsidence
of parts of the rocks, which fissures were afterwards filled up
with various matters by deposits from aqueous solution, chiefly
from above.
Modifications of this theory are, That such rents in the earth
may have been caused in other ways, such as earthquakes, or

certain great convulsions, as well as by subsidence :

   That they may have been filled by the infiltration of solu
14 . THIRD REPORT 1833.

tions, which deposited the substances with which they were
charged in the veins, or by the process of sublimation from

below.
   The second theory allows that veins were formed subse
quently to the consolidation of the rocks ; but the cause prin
cipally assigned for such fissures is the violence done to the
strata by the elevation or upheaving of other rocks from

below.
   And it is an essential part of this theory that the materials
which fill the veins were forcibly injected upwards in a state of

complete fusion by heat.
   The third theory is that denying any subsequent processes

which might either cause rents and fissures, or might fill them
with matter which differs from the rocks which inclose them :

the whole formation was contemporaneous with the rocks them
selves, the mineral substances which we find in veins having
separated and arranged themselves into the forms in which we
now see them to exist.
   The advocates of these theories have each zealously asserted
the truth of his own system, and refused to admit of causes or
explanations which appeared to militate against it ; and thus a
boundary has been set, as it appears to me, to that freedom of
inquiry which is so desirable in such cases, and a limit drawn
round the reasoning faculties of man upon evidence which may

come before him.

  It will appear, from what has already been said, that veins
have very different characters
                                and appearances  ; and                          this might
be made more clear, if it were  here the proper  place                          to enlarge
upon the subject and point out the distinctions. For our pur
pose, however, it may be sufficient to remark upon two or three
principal varieties. First, then, are those which have beyond
all
     comparison been   tmheoystcoenxtpailno,re--d thaendmeetxaallmifeinreouds,  on account
of   the stores which
                                                                                 veins. As

these have been penetrated in all directions to the greatest ex

tent that human power and ingenuity have been able to effect,
so their structure is better known and more accurately ob

served.

     Similar to these, and occurring with them, and therefore well
known, are others, which, though barren of metals, are yet
often called true veins ; and these, as well as the first, come
pretty fully under the view of the miner.
   Next there are veins, regular in their structure to a great

extent, filled with matter which has the character of being de
rived from igneous origin, such as are usually called dykes of
trap, whinstone, &c, &c. ; to which would be added by most
REPORT ON MINERAL ^fEINS.  15

geologists of the present day, the veins of granite, porphyry,
quartz, &c.

   Some of these have been examined below the surface, where
they pass through coal-fields, or other deposits of useful mine
rals, but containing in themselves nothing to reward the toil of
exploring them : little has been seen of their contents and con
figuration, and our knowledge of them is more limited.

    Lastly, there are tortuous and irregular veins or ramifications
in most rocks, extending to limited distances, as far as our ob
servations permit us to judge, seldom offering a valuable return
for any effort to explore them, and of which, therefore, our
knowledge is but superficial.

   Such veins, according to Mr. Carne, have been usually di
stinguished from true veins by their shortness, crookedness,
and irregularity of size, as well as by the similarity of the con
stituent parts of the substances which they contain to those of
the adjoining rocks, with which they are generally so closely
connected as to appear a part of the same mass. Two other
distinctive marks may be added ; one is, that when they cross
they do not exhibit the heaves of true veins, but usually unite ;
the other is, that when there is an apparent heave it is easy to
perceive that what appear to be separate parts of the same vein
are different veins terminating at the cross vein.

    Such may be, probably, of contemporaneous formation ; and
there may be deposits of ore also which it would be difficult to
refer the structure of to any other hypothesis, particularly such
as contain ores so intimately mixed with the rocks as to form a

Iconstituent part of them.

     would suggest, that if from any one of these classes we were

to form a judgement as to the whole, error would probably be
 the consequence, or, at any rate, the view would be a narrow
 and contracted one, and our decisions would be defective in

 many important respects.

    To have conducted the inquiry in this manner seems to me

 to have been the error in many who have preceded us in for

Iwarding the state of knowledge on vein formations. Nor do

 mean to detract from the great merit of many of them on this
 account ; the field of observation is too vast to become fully
 acquainted with it ; it extends over the most rugged parts of
 the earth's surface, and its boundaries are not reached in the
 deep recesses of its bowels. It is no wonder that in the earlier
 stages of such inquiries men should be strongly impressed with
 what lay immediately before them, and should view with dis
 trust what they might only learn from description.

    Such impressions may be traced in looking at the authors of
16 TH)RD REPORT -- 1833.

the systems which we have reviewed. Werner expressly tells
us, that we are indebted to miners for the theories which he
deemed most worthy of acceptation, and he names as such
Agricola, Rosier, Henkel, Hoffman, Von Oppel, Charpentier,
and Trebra. We may add his own name and that of Dr. Pryce,
in our own country, as intimately acquainted with mining. Now
all such men would be more acquainted with the metalliferous
veins and such as accompany them; and from these they would
Iderive much evidence in favour of the opinions which they ad

vocated ; at least, partaking, as probably do, in the same pre

Ijudices, so it would appear to me, if by the labour of other

inquirers did not know that there were other facts requiring
a different explanation.
    Again, Dr. Hutton and his commentators had largely ob
served veins which may fairly be attributed to injection ; they
had found dykes of trap passing through coal-beds, and con
verting them into cinder. Such evidence of the effects of heat
and of a filling up by matter in fusion is not to be resisted ; but
when we look at what is said of the metalliferous veins by some
of the writers on this side of the question, we observe great
want of practical knowledge and many errors, arising out of
the attempt to make all bend to a single method of solving the

problem.
    For   tthoebethsiradid,h--yptohtahtessisomoefvceoinntsemexpiosrtawnehoicuhs
is                                                                                formation there
    this
                                                                                 seem to admit of
no other explanation ; and that this being allowed to such as
will have but one theory, this is at once the easiest, because it
gets rid of many difficulties without further trouble ; but we
can hardly be satisfied to adopt it as universal upon experience
that has been principally confined to sections in quarries and
in cliffs, or to such as are exposed to open view.
    Our present state of knowledge as to the formation of veins
should therefore, in my opinion, be allowed to admit that most
of the causes which have been stated have operated at various
periods and through a long succession of time, some prevailing
at one epoch, and some at another, modified by circumstances
which we can but imperfectly comprehend or explain.

   In this view we may allow of a classification of veins accord
ing to their probable mode of origin ; and such a classification
has been thought of by some of our ablest geologists of the
present day, and was indeed propounded in one of our sections
at Oxford last year by our present learned President, who ex
--pre1s.seTdhohsies           that there were three different sets of veins:
                     opinion  have been plainly mere fissures or cracks,
                      which
and which have been subsequently filled ; 2. Those of injec
                   REPORT ON MINERAL VEINS.     17

tion ; 3. The contemporaneous veins, which might more aptly
Ibe termed veins of segregation.
   Here     might  close this Report, which is  already much too
tedious,  were it                                to notice briefly
                   not that I may be expected
some of the facts adduced by the advocates of the respective
theories, and, by comparing them, show how far they are enti
tled to be considered as objections on one side, or as proofs
on the other, with the confidence which has been assigned to
them.

   Werner and Hutton agree in allowing that rents took place
subsequently to the consolidation of the rocks, or at the time of
their consolidation. They differ as to the cause of the rents :
Werner ascribes it to subsidence, or to sinking and shrinking
of the solid materials of our globe ; Hutton, to violent upheaving
of matter from below, breaking up the superinjacent strata.

   Either of these causes seems adequate to the effect, and in
either case corresponding strata might be found having different
levels of position on opposite sides of the fissure, as is constantly
the case. This by miners in the North of England is called the
throw of the vein ; and it is clear that one side may as well be
thrown up as the other thrown down. Mr. Fox and Dr. Boase
urge the great irregularity of the width of veins, the difficulty
of supposing the sides to be supported, and some other objec
tions to the hypothesis of open fissures. Irregularity of width
is but a comparative term ; and taking into consideration the
immense extent of their dimensions in length and depth, it
amounts in my opinion to but little.
   The other objections are in a great degree anticipated and
answered by Werner ; and, after all, difficulties can hardly be
urged against the positive testimony of some veins having been
open, which is afforded by the substances found in them, such
as rolled pebbles, petrifactions, &c.

  IThe parallelism of veins of one formation is insisted upon by

Werner as a proof of his view of the subject ; and confess that
there appears to me to be considerable difficulty in explaining
this, on the supposition that fissures were caused by a mass
protruded upwards through strata already formed. From such
a cause one should expect not to have a number of cracks pa
rallel to each other, but rather to see them radiating from the
centre of the greatest disturbance. In the metalliferous veins

we may certainly observe this parallelism to a great extent.

Mr. Carne has beautifully illustrated this in Cornwall, and has
shown how the productive veins generally have an east and
west course ; how, as they differ in their contents, they differ
also in their direction, each class being, however, parallel in

1833.                             c
18 THIRD REPORT 1833.

itself; and how these facts illustrate relative ages of forma

tion.

   This tendency to an east and west direction of the metallife
rous veins may be observed not only in Cornwall but in the
stratified parts of England, in the mining districts of Europe,
and in the range of the great veins of Mexico.

   Mr. Robert Fox, having discovered galvanic action to ensue
by the connexion of an apparatus, constructed to detect with
portions of metalliferous veins, suggests whether some analogies
                                   is

                                                                        ;

                                                                  it it,
may not be traced between electro-magnetic currents and the
directions of veins nothing upon which any hypothesis can be
it,
                  is

                                :

                     it
built seems, however, as yet to have been proposed and may
Abe doubted whether, when this test applied to masses of ore,
the experiment  not liable to many objections.         principal
one seems to be, that by the very act by which we gain access

to the vein, we lay open to atmospheric action, and conse
quently to decomposition. Chemical agency commences, and
with very naturally, galvanic influences are excited.
   Veins containing ores little subject to decomposition have,
apprehend, been found to give little or no indications of this
                                     is
                                         a

                                                                   ;

                                                             :I
nature.

   It may, however, be that this general direction of metallife
rous veins may not obtain as to veins of injection and in that

case we shall have additional reason to admit more causes than
one to have been in operation. This
                                     matter deserving ex

tensive observation.

IfOther veins have been stated to cross the metalliferous veins
they are generally filled in a different manner.  they contain
any ores, they are frequently of different metals from those in
the former. They pass through or traverse the other veins,
cutting them through, and suffering a disturbance to take place
in their linear direction, or what the miners significantly term

heave.
a
                   ; is

                I

                                 it

                            is if

                                                                                     is
                                                                                               is :

                                                                                                          is
This fact relied upon as proving that veins are of different
ages, as first asserted by Pryce, much insisted upon by Werner,
and allowed by Hutton and Playfair.
   Those who dispute this inference, therefore, are the advo
cates for the sole operation of contemporaneous causes they
object that rules which have been proposed for ascertaining
the exact tendency of such disturbances having been found to
be subject to exceptions, the proof of dislocation wanting, or
that dislocation has taken place without motion. The latter
proposition, at any rate, appears to me to be very difficult to
understand and think any part of this intricate subject
                                   that the relative age of veins made
clear and intelligible,
                 RErORT ON MINERAL VEINS.                                     19

out by    these  fofarctes,veervyencaaselt,h--ouaghsubwjeectmawyhnicoht  yet  be able to
apply    rules                                                           has   been con

sidered as highly important in its practical application to the
art of mining.

   The greatest controversy, however, relates to the mode in
which veins have been filled. Here, again, we must remark,
how the opinions of observers have been influenced by the facts
coming under their immediate observation.
Werner, and the mining authors on whom he relies, drew
their inferences from metalliferous veins. Hutton and his fol
lowers regarded chiefly those of another class ; and this great
author and his commentator Professor Playfair were evidently
ill informed as to metalliferous veins.
That certain veins have been filled by injection from below,
and with matter in igneous fusion, seems to be rendered certain
by evidence, which is clearer than most we possess on such sub
jects, and must be admitted at once. Thus, when we see a
trap dyke traversing a bed of coal and charring the combusti
ble matter, and affecting the rock itself with visible effects of

great heat, we must assent to the cause assigned ; and when we
see matter of igneous origin not only filling the veins, but over
flowing on the surface, or insinuating itself between adjacent
beds, the case is plainer than most that occur in geological re

search.
But though one class of theorists have proposed this as the
universal cause of the filling up of veins, ought we to admit this
to be true, when we find so many in which no similar appear

ances are to be traced?

   Why, for instance, if the ores were forced from below, did
the power which injected    tthheemsujrufascte,lim--itfoirtswehlferteo
within a short distance of                                               raising them
                                                                         shall we find
Ifan instance of their being protruded above it ?

       the metallic contents of veins were injected from below, we
ought to be able to trace something like the direction of the
currents in which the matter flowed ; we ought to see some

continuity in the operation, and some connexion between the
masses of ore which occur in veins ; whereas the contrary of

each is notoriously evident to every observer.

  It would seem also to be very probable, if the enrichment was
from below, and the matter was forced in from those regions
whence their treasures are supposed to be derived, that by a
nearer approach to the depths of the earth we should find the

riches more abundant.
Professor Playfair admits this inference, and disposes of the

difficulty by arguing that it is so ; and says, that though mines

                                      c2
20 THIRD REPORT -- 1833.

in Mexico and Peru are said to be less rich as they descend
further, those of Derbyshire and Cornwall exhibit the very

contrary.

   He is unfortunate in this allegation, and the facts will not
bear him out, as every one of common experience must know ;

and thus, as I have before observed, we have hypotheses sup

ported by a limited knowledge of the facts.
   The theory of the filling up of veins by precipitation from

aqueous solutions, is defective in not being able to show what
menstruum could render such substances soluble in water ;

and this difficulty must remain an important one, unless en
larged knowledge should hereafter afford the means of ex
plaining it.

   But when we are told that the supposition is absurd, that
water cannot arrange its deposits in planes highly inclined, that
no appearance of stalactites is to be found in veins, nor can
we see in them any substance like those on the earth's surface,
which aqueous action has removed,-- it must be recollected that
we know silex is soluble in water at high temperatures ; that
crystals do arrange themselves on the sides of vessels in planes
highly inclined; that stalactites of chalcedony, of quartz, and of
iron pyrites, have been found deep in the veins in Cornwall, and
that much of the substance of the surrounding rocks, and such

as we see on the surface, and adjoining and inclosing the veins
themselves, is found in them, occupying much of their space,
previously having been worn down into fragments, into loose
Isand, and into clay or mud, the latter of which is so common

that, as have before observed, it is relied on by the miner as
   distinguishing character of          reI gtuhlianrk,vebiens*a.s
a  The action of water may,

                                                                    fairly assumed  as

that of fire ; and we may consider what their joint powers might
be, when compelled, as it were, to act together, under circum

Istances that immense pressure might produce.

   But in examining the contents of veins, we are, think, likely
to be struck, not only by the appearance of a complication of
causes, but by evidence of their succession, admitting the pro
bability not only of different agents having been employed, but
of their having done their work separately as well as conjointly,

    ·  M: r".  Weaver describes   the   contents of the great vein of Bolanos in Mexico
thus           The chief mass of  this  vein may be said to consist of the detritus of the

adjacent rocks, more or less consolidated, and generally hard ; nay, in places,
it is actually composed of a conglomerate. Proper vein-stones, such as fluor

or calc spar, are, comparatively speaking, casualties. In this basis the finer
delicate silver ores and native silver are dispersed, in common with the harder
and coarser ores of blende, iron, and copper, besides lead ores."
             REfORT ON MINERAL VEINS.                        21

-- of having operated at different periods, and of one having
produced effects for which another was inadequate.

   As we cannot easily conceive how the metallic ores can have
been deposited from solution in water, and appearances are
much against their having been injected in a state of fusion,
there is another supposition which, though not free from diffi
culties,                                       enough in its favour to have gained
it many   hsausppyoertteprsr,ob--abwilhiticyh    is, that these and some other sub
stances have been raised from below by sublimation. This is
not a new opinion, for though the older writers expressed it in
laHanetinoinkndesil,s,--tiannacndtdomtthhaeunrsnse, wr--,e aysenhtdatllhspefoiinrkdemeoitafnpimnrogeptaoelsvleiicddevnbatlypyoBuwresacsh,aentrhd,atSetxsahuhabl,
stances had been volatilized by heat, and assumed their places
in veins by condensation, or by combining with other materials.
   We know for certain that some of the metallic sulphurets
may be so volatilized, and will reassume their form and be
produced in a crystallized state ; and so far nothing is assumed
beyond our knowledge : but as we find these sulphurets, which
compose by far the greater part of the metallic contents of veins,
in insulated masses, surrounded on all sides by other substances,
which we can hardly conjecture to have been sublimed, we en
counter much difficulty in explaining how the process can have
taken place ; and it becomes even more difficult when we see
how very much these different classes of substances are incor
porated, and how they completely, in most instances, envelop

and inclose each other.
   The hypothesis of filling up by sublimation would also seem
to require that the deepest portions of veins should be richer,
especially considering the very small extent to which after all
they have been perforated ; but yet, shallow as our workings
into the earth really have been, there is much appearance of
their having in many instances gone below the richest deposits
of the metals.

   This seems to have been the case in some of the deepest
mines in Mexico, and in several in our own country. It is im
possible, indeed, to say that greater deposits may not exist still
lower down ; and though veins have not been traced to their
termination, they have in many instances been pursued until
the indications of metallic produce have become faint and hope
less. And these unfavourable appearances have increased very
commonly with increasing depth, which is as much, perhaps, as
we are likely to know about as the operations of the miner
                                               it,
                                                                                                      is
are thus arrested, and the inducement to further experiment

taken away.
22 THIRD REPORT 1833.

The agency of sublimation has lately been advocated by Pro
fessor Necker of Geneva, in a
Society of London * ; and he   paper read before the Geological
                               has extended an ingenious hypo
thesis of Dr. Boue', who would bring under a general law the
relation of metalliferous veins and deposits to those crystalline
rocks which, by the majority of modern geologists, are consi
dered to have been produced by fire ; and thus to lead to the

inference that the metals were deposited in the former by sub
limation from the latter.
M. Necker inquires, 1 . Whether there is near each of the
Ifknown metalliferous deposits any unstratified rock ?

   2. none is to be found in the immediate vicinity, is there
no evidence which would lead to the belief that an unstratified

rock may extend under the metalliferous district ?
3. Do there exist metalliferous deposits entirely disconnected
from unstratified rocks ?

Professor Necker answers these questions by showing that in

various countries there are such relations as he supposes, and

admits, in reply to the last, that there are cases where the depo
Ifsits seem to be unconnected with any trace of unstratified rock.

        metalliferous deposits are commonly in crystalline rocks
which are attributed to igneous origin, it must be allowed also
that there are others abundantly rich where no apparent con
nexion is to be traced. M. Necker mentions the mountain
limestone as such ; but he does not seem aware of the extent
of those deposits, which, with the beds of grit and shale which
is it,
                         it
alternate with present numberless regular veins abounding
with certain ores.
loitntlAlyestdhtoahutisbutfnasacttbraotuitfi,ien--ddibsrupotuckttahsbamltea,thyebreeseuesnmhdoseurlndtehcebemess--asroywmhetiocchoshntohnweerxenioont
                                                           I
                                                                    is
between the veins which contain the metals and similar chan
nels or passages in the rocks below. No such evidence, be
lieve, at present exists and am not aware of any veins having
a
           is

                                                   ·;

                         I
                                 it I
yet been found to penetrate from the stratified rocks into those
upon which they rest.
   This supposition must therefore, like many others, be taken
as mere probability to account for some appearances in certain
places, but not to explain all the phaenomena.
There one point which, before conclude, would endea
vour to press on the attention and consideration of future ob;I
servers, because, in the first place, does not appear to have
been much regarded by writers on the subject and next, be-

                           March 28th, 1832.
              REPORT ON MINERAL VEINS.                                   23

cause, though it seems to offer objections to some received
theories, it may, when better understood, assist in developing
the truth.
This is the relation that the contents of a vein bear to the
nature of the rock in which the fissure is situated.
Thus in the older rocks, we see the same vein intersecting
clay-slate and granite : it is itself continuous, and there is no
doubt of its identity; and yet the contents of the part inclosed
by the one rock shall differ very much from what is found in
the other. In Cornwall, a vein that has been productive of
copper ore in the clay-slate, passing into the granite becomes
Ifricher, or, what is more remarkable, furnishes ores of the same
metal differently mineralized.          we pursue it further into the
granite, the produce of metal frequently is found to diminish.
Veins in some cases cut through the elvan courses, as well as
the clay-slate inclosing these porphyries : the ores are rich and
abundant in the latter ; in other instances they fail altogether.
   Less striking differences in the structure of the rock seem to
affect the contents of the veins ; and appearances as to the tex
ture and formation of the strata are often regarded by miners
with more anxiety than the indications presented by the vein
itself; and a change of ground is relied upon with an assu

rance, derived from experience, as a more certain basis to au
gur upon, for better or for worse, than almost any other which
the difficult art of mining has to offer.
Numberless facts might be collected and adduced to show
that   this is not mere                 ; but it will nowhere appear
more                      speculation   the various beds of limestone
        clearly than if  we examine
grit, &c, in the great lead mines in the North of England.
Here we shall find a series of stratified rocks, and that por
tion of the series which has been most productive of lead ores,
occupying a thickness of nearly 280 yards. It is divided into
55 distinct beds, which are accurately described in Mr. West-
garth Forster's section, each having its name known to the
miners of the country. Nine of these beds are of limestone,
about 18 are of gritstone or siliceous sandstone, and the re
mainder are plate or black shale, with thin beds of imperfect

coal.

Now the lead veins pass through all these beds, and have
been worked more or less into all of them ; and it has thus been

proved, that though the fissure is common to all, yet lead ore is
       found
only   same,  iafbwunedeaxnatlmy inien  particular beds, and those very  much
the                                     the immense number of mines      which

are working in this district.
Where the veins pass through the shale, little or no ore is to
24 THIRD REPORT 1833.

be found in them ; where they are inclosed by the gritstones,
there they become more productive ; but it is in one of the beds
of limestone, and one only, that the great deposit of lead ore is
to be found.

   In the great mining field of Alstone Moor, this bed is called
the great limestone, and yet its thickness is only about 23
yards out of the 280 which the series of lead measures occupy ;
and notwithstanding this, four-fifths of all the lead ore found
in the district is derived from such parts of the veins as are
inclosed by this particular stratum.

   The veins equally passing through the other beds, and traced
by innumerable workings through them, are yet only rich in
metallic treasure where they repose in this favoured stratum *.

   Though perhaps few cases are so striking as this, yet it is
evident that the same thing takes place to a certain extent
with all the metals, in all rocks and in all countries.

  If it is a fact and correctly stated, it must be considered in

reference to the theories propounded to us, and it seems directly
opposed to the doctrine of forcible injection ; but it may admit
of probable explanation by calling in certain affinities, either by
the advocates of precipitation from water, or by those who may
contend that sublimed vapours might be attracted to particular

spots.

* To illustrate the comparative bearing of the different beds in the manor of
Alstone Moor, Mr. Thomas Dickinson, the Moor Master for Greenwich Hospi
                  for me an exact  account of                                     in all
tal,  extracted  the manor in the  year 1822,  the ore produced from each bed     --
the   mines of                                 which gave the following results:

Limestone  Beds. -- Great limestone                 20,827      bings.
                       Little limestone                  287    21,088
                       Four-fathom limestone                91
                       Scar limestone                      90     2,365
                                                         393
                       Tyne bottom limestone
                                                         107
Gritstone  Bedi. --High slate sill                       289
                                                         262
                       Lower slate sill                  259
                       Firestone                         327
                       Pattinson's sill                  154
                      High coal sill                     306
                       Low coal sill
                       Tuft                                44
                                                            21
                       Quarry hazel                      576
                      Nattrass Gill hazel                  18
                       Six-fathom hazel
                                                             2
                       Slaty hazel
                       Hazel under scar limestone

           Whole produce of the mines of the manor              24,053 bings.
REPORT ON MINERAL VEINS.                                               25

That metallic ores are found to repose in rocks which seem
Icongenial to them, and that their combinations are modified by

changes in the rocks, will not think be disputed by practised
miners, or by those who have most narrowly searched into the
hidden recesses of the earth.

Facts must be observed and compared, effects must be traced
tdoidplyrobaadbmleittecda,usiefsw, eanwdoudlidfficeunlltairegse        be explained or can
                                                                 must  generalize our know
                                                                  and

ledge of vein formations. There are obstacles to the progress
of this knowledge ; for, as Dr. Boase has remarked, it is not easy
for a person unaccustomed to it to use his eyes with much ad

vantage, in the places where the study can best be pursued.

  It is the miners' business, however, not only to see clearly, but
to consider all the intricate                                    that veins exhibit; and
                               appearances                       merely with the obser
I would exhort them not to     be satisfied

vations their art may seem to require, but to extend them to a
larger view of the subject, and to contribute, as many of their
eminent predecessors have done, to the common stock of general

If Iscience.
       the imperfect view which have thus endeavoured to give
of prevalent opinions should assist in such endeavours, or
should stimulate any persons in undertaking a further pursuit
of the subject, it would be to me a source of great gratification ;

Ias the desire of promoting such inquiries must be my apology

for attempting the task which have undertaken.
                       [ 27 ]

On the Principal Questions at present debated in the Philoso
  phy of Botany. By John Lindley, Ph.D., F.R.S., $c.,
  Professor of Botany in the University of London.

If we compare the state of Botany at the end of the last cen
tury with its present condition, we shall find that it has become
so changed as scarcely to be recognised for the same science.
Improvements in the construction of the microscope, the disco
veries in vegetable chemistry, the exchange of artificial methods
of arrangement for an extended and universal contemplation of
natural affinities, the reduction of all classes of phaenomena to
general principles, and, above all things, the adoption of the
philosophical views of Gothe, together with the recognition of
an universal unity of design throughout the vegetable world,
are undoubtedly the principal causes to which this change is

to be ascribed.
   As the general nature of recent discoveries, and a sufficient
ly definite notion of the present state of botanical science, may
be collected from the introductory works which have appeared
in this country within the last three years, it is presumed that

the object of the British Association will be attained if the
present Report is confined to the most interesting only of those
subjects upon which botanists have been recently occupied,
Iand to an indication of the points to which it is more particularly
desirable that inquiries should now be directed.           have also

excluded everything that relates to mere systematic botany, in
the hope that some one will take that subject as the basis of a

separate Report.       --This  country  has, till lately,  been re
   Elementary Organs.
markably barren of discoveries in vegetable anatomy, since the
time of Grew, who was one of the fathers of that branch of

science. Whatever progress has been made in the determina

tion of the exact nature of those minute organs, by the united
powers of which the functions of vegetation are sustained, it
has been chiefly in foreign countries that it has taken place :
the names of Mirbel, Moldenhauer, Kieser, Link and Amici,

stand alone during the period when their works were published ;
and it has only been within a very few years that those of
Brown, Valentine, Griffith and Slack have entered into com
petition with the anatomists of Germany and France.
   By the researches of these and other patient inquirers, we
28 THIRD REPORT -- 1883.

have already reduced our knowledge of the exact internal struc
ture of plants to a state of very considerable precision; although
it must be confessed that vegetable anatomy is still the field

where the greatest discoveries may be expected.

   It is now generally agreed that the old opinions, that the tis
sue of plants is either a membrane doubled together in endless
folds, or a congeries of cavities formed in solidifiable mucus
by the extrication of gaseous matter, are equally erroneous,
and that it really consists of distinct sacs or cells, pressed to

gether and adhering to each other by the sides where they are
in contact.

   It is considered that this is proved by the following circum
stances. 1. By the action of some powerful solvent, such as

nitric acid, the cells may be artificially separated from each
other. 2. In parts which become succulent, the cells separate
spontaneously, as in the receptacle of the strawberry, the berry
of the privet, &c. 3. When the parts are young, their tissue

may be easily separated by pressure in water. 4. It is con
formable to what has been observed in the growth of plants.
Amici found that the new tubes of Chara appear like young buds
from the points or axillae of pre-existing tubes ; an observation
that has been confirmed by Mr. Henry Slack *. It has been
distinctly proved by M. Mirbelf, that the same thing occurs in
the case of Marchantia polymorpha. That learned botanist, in
the course of his inquiries into the structure of this remarkable

         may be said to have been present at the birth of its cel-
{u)llaanrt, tissue ; and he found that in all cases one tube or utricle
generated another, so that sometimes the young masses of tis
sue had the appearance of knotted or branched cords. He satis
fied himself, by a beautifully connected series of observations,
that new parts are not formed by the adhesion of vesicles origi
nally distinct, as many have asserted, but by the generative
power of one first utricle, which engenders others endowed with

the same property.

  It appears that when first formed the sacs are completely

closed up, so that there is no communication between the one
and the other, excepting through the highly permeable mem

brane of which they are composed. This, indeed, is not con
formable to the observations of those who have described and
represented pores or passages of considerable magnitude pierced
in the sides of the sacs; but it has been satisfactorily shown by
Dutrochet, that the spaces supposed by such observers to be

·  "TrRacncshaccrcthioenss  of the Society of Arts, vol. xlix.  sur le Man/tantia  po/ymor-
                            Analomiques et Physiologiques
t
pha," in Nouv. Ann. du Museum, vol. i. p. 93.
              REPORT ON THE PHILOSOPHY OF BOTANY.                                         29

pores are nothing more than grains of amylaceous matter stick
ing to the sides of the sacs ; for he found that by immersing the
latter in hot nitric acid, the supposed pores became opake, and
by afterwards moistening them with a weak solution of caustic
potash, they recovered their transparency : we also find that
the supposed pores are readily detached from the sides of the

sacs to which they adhere ; and I think it may be added, that
our microscopes are now alone sufficient to show what they are.
   The question as                                                porosity of vegetable
                    to the perceptible                         I   think, disposed of     tis
sue may therefore    be considered,                                                      as a
                                                  that Dr. Mohl has
general fact;  --fornatmheeloy,bjethcatitonin                           taken to this
explanation*,                                     a transverse section   we ought to
                                                               sides of the cells
efimndinesnuccehs,g--raicnasnnportojseucrteinlyg   from the                        like little
                                                  be entitled   to much weight,
                                                                                   if we op

pose to this  annedgaetsivpeecioabllsyervifatwioen   the positive  evidence already
mentioned,                                          consider that   it is next to im
possible for the keenest knife to make a section of such delicate
parts without carrying away such particles upon its edge. There
are, nevertheless, cases in which the point is still open to in

vestigation.

   Thus Mirbel, in his second memoir on the Marchantia^,
positively declares that the curious cells which line the anther
of the common gourd, are continuous membranes till just be
fore the expansion of the flower, when they very suddenly en
large, and their sides divide into the narrow ribands or threads
which give their name to what we call fibrous cells. In this,
and the multitudes of similar cases with which Purkinje has
made us acquainted, there can be no doubt that the sides of
the cells consist ultimately of nothing but openwork; but still
it seems certain that during the principal part of their existence

they were completely closed up.

   It is also probable that in other cases the sides of the cells

or vessels ultimately give way and slit; but this rending seems
to be a phaenomenon attendant upon the cessation of the ordi
nary functions of tissue, and independent of their original con
struction.

   In coniferous plants the wood is in a great measure com
posed of closed tubes, tapering to each end, the sides of which
are marked with circles, containing a smaller circle in their cen
tre. These circles have long been considered undoubted pores,
and it does not appear possible to prove them otherwise by any
of the tests already mentioned.

· Ueber die Porcn des PJlanzen-Zellgeteebes,                      p. 11. Tubingen, 1828.

t Archives de Botanique, vol. i.
30 THIRD REPORT 1833.

Iliar  have endeavoured to show * that                 Ithey are glands of a pecu
       figure, which stick to the sides
                                                       of the tubes ; and have
ascertained that the large round holes that are certainly found
in coniferous tissue are caused by the dropping or rubbing off
of such supposed glands. But a very different opinion is en
tertained by Dr. Mohlf, whose observations have been con

firmed by Dr. Unger J. In the opinion of the former of these

botanists the supposed glands of coniferous tissue are circular
spaces where the membrane of the tube becomes abruptly ex
tremely thin ; and it is said that transverse slices of coniferous
wood, made at an angle of forty-five degrees, demonstrate the
fact. Dr. Mohl is also of opinion, as has been already said,
that the porous appearances above mentioned, and ascribed to
the adhesion of amylaceous matter to the sides, are of a similar

nature.
It has been shown by Mr. Griffiths, that in the kind of tissue
called the dotted duct, the suspicion of Du Petit Thouars that
this form of tissue is composed of short cylindrical cells placed
end to end, and opening into each other, is correct ; their com
munication, however, is not by means of an organic perfo
ration, but is produced by the absorption and rupture of the
ends which come in contact. Mr. Slack has also stated,

in a very good paper upon Vegetable Tissue §, that in other
cases the vessels of plants open into each other where they
come in contact; as, for example, at the conical extremities,
where ducts join each other ; but he represents this to be owing
to the obliteration of their membrane at that point ; the internal
fibre, of which they are in part composed, remaining like a

grating stretched across the opening where the enveloping

membrane has disappeared.                              Journal of         Royal In
   In a short
stitution in   Dpeacpeemr, bpeurb1li8s3h1e,dI  in the  endeavoured  the   show that
                                               have                   to

membrane and fibre are to be considered the organic elements
of vegetable tissue, contrary to the more usual opinion that
membrane only is its basis : this was attempted to be proved,
not only by the fact that the simple cells of the testa of Mau-
randia, &c,
               are apparently formed by a fibre twisted                   ssppiirreasllyI
in the inside
               of their membrane, but also by the elastic
had discovered on the outside of the seed of Collomia, in which

it is plain that no membrane whatever is generated.

               · Introduction to Botany, p. 16. t. 2. f. 7.

               t Ueber die Poren des PJlanzen-Zcllgeuebes.

               X liotanische Zeitung, October 7, 1832.
               § Transactions of the Society of Arts, vol. xlix.
REPORT ON THE PHILOSOPHY OF BOTANY.                              31

It would, however, appear from the researches of Mirbel *,
that the presence of a twisted fibre within a cell is not always
the cause of the spiral or fibrous character so common in tissue.
He finds, as has been already stated, that the cells that line
the anther of a gourd are at first membranous and closed, and
that they continue in this state till just before the bursting of the
anther, when they suddenly divide in such a way as to assume
the appearance of delicate threads, curved in almost elliptical
rings, which adhere to the shell of the anther by one end ; these
rings are placed parallel with each other in each cell, to which
they give an appearance like that of a little gallery with two
rows of pilasters, the connecting arches of which remain after
the destruction of the roof and walls. He also watched the
development of the curious bodies called elaiers in the Mar-
chantia, which he describes to the following effect. At first

they are long slender tubes, pointed at each end ; at a subse
quent stage their walls thicken, and become less transparent,
and are marked all round through their entire length with two
parallel, very close, spiral streaks ; later still the tubes enlarge,
and their streaks become slits, which divide the walls all round,

from one end to the other, into two filaments ; and, finally, the
circumvolutions of the filaments separate, assume the appear
ance of a corkscrew, acquire a rust colour, and the elater is
complete. These elaters he considers organically identical with

the spiral vessel, and hence he concludes that every description
of vessel is a cell, differing from ordinary cells in being larger.

  IUpon the general accuracy of these observations am dis
Iposed to place great confidence ; and would even add, that the

theory of pierced or open cellular tissue being produced by
the spontaneous rending of its membrane, is apparently con
nected with an observation of my ownf, that in some plants
tsiiomnpltehavnegaentoatbhleer.memItbrisanneevweritllhetleeasrs  more readily in one direc
                                                                   to be observed, that the
theory of fibre being one of the organic elements of tissue does
Inot seem to have occurred to the experienced physiologist to
whose observations  am referring, and that some of the ap

pearances he mentions at a stage preceding transformation are
very like those of the development of an internal fibre.

   The opinion of the organic identity of all the forms of tissue
has also been maintained by Mr. Slack, in the paper already
referred to, and by Dr. Mohl, in his memoir on the comparative
anatomy of the stem of Cycadece, Coniferce, and Tree Ferns.

                    · Archives de Botanique, vol. i.

                    t Introduction to Botany, p. 2.
   32 THIRD REPORT -- 1833.

   The latter considers that the dotted tubes of Cycadece un
   doubtedly pass directly into the vessels called by the Germans
   vasa scalar iformia ; but my own observations do not confirm
   this statement.
      Circulation.  --Whether  or not plants  have  a circulation ana
   logous to that of animals, is a topic that was more open to con
   jecture at a time when the real structure of the former was un
   known, than it can be at the present day. Knowing, as we
   now do, that a tree is more analogous to a Polype than to a
   simple animal ; that it is a congeries of vital systems, acting
   indeed in concert, but to a great degree independent of each
   other, and that it has myriads of seats of life, we cannot expect
   that in such productions anything absolutely similar to the mo
   tion of the blood of animals from and to one common point
   should be found. The idea of circulation existing in plants
   must therefore be abandoned ; but that a motion of some kind

   is constantly going on in their fluids was sufficiently proved by
   the well-known facts of the flow of the sap, the bleeding of the

   vine, the immense loss plants sustain by evaporation, and by
   similar phaenomena. The motion was for the first time beheld
   by Amici, the Professor at Modena, who discovered it in the
   Chara. He found that in this plant the cylindrical cells of the
   stem are filled with fluid, in which are suspended grains of
   green matter of irregular form and size. These grains were
   distinctly seen to ascend one side of each tube, and descend the
   other, after the manner of a jack-chain, and to be continually
   in action, in the same manner, as long as the cell retained its
   life ; the motion of the grains was evidently due to the ascend
   ing and descending current in the fluid contained within the

   tube-like cell. It could not be ascertained that any kind of
   communication existed between the cells, but each was seen to
   have a motion of its own.
   The observations of Amici have been verified in this country
   chiefly upon species of Nitella ; and from the investigations of
   Mr. Solly, Mr. Varley, and Mr. Slack*, the nature of the phao-
   nomenon has been determined with considerable precision.
   Among other things, it has been ascertained that in Nitella
   the currents have always a certain relation to the axis of growth,
   the ascending current uniformly passing along the side of the
   cell most remote from the axis, and the descending current

   along the side next the axis.                               In
      Similar motions have been seen in several other plants.
   the cells of Hydrocharis Morsus-Rance the fluid has been ob-

   · Transactions of the Society of Arts, vol. xlix.

·
                  REPORT ON THE PHILOSOPHY OF BOTANY.                          33

served to move round and round their sides in a rotatory man
ner, which, however, has not been seen to follow any particular
law. In the joints of the hairs of Tradescantia virginica
several currents of a similar nature exist ; and in the hair of
the corolla of a species of Pentstemon, Mr. Slack has observed
several currents taking various directions, some continuing to
the summit of the hair, whilst others turn and descend in va

rious   places, two currents   frequently              uniting      in one channel.
       may hence, possibly,   be assumed               that in      the cells of plants,
  It
when filled with fluid, there is a very general rotatory move
ment, which is confined to each particular cell. This, it is ob
vious, can form no part of the general circulation of the system,
which must often occur with great rapidity, and which must
take place from the roots to the extremities. The rotatory
motion may perhaps be considered a sort of motion of di
gestion, and connected with the chemical changes which matter
undergoes in the cells from the united action of light, heat,

and air.
   What has been supposed to be a discovery of the universal
motion of sap has been made by Professor Schultz of Berlin,
who remarked two torrents, one of which was progressive, and
the other retrogressive, in what he calls the vital vessels (ap
parently the woody fibre) in the veins of Chelidonium majus,
and in the stipulae of Ficus elastica.

   His observations have been repeated by a Commission of the
Institute, composed of MM. Mirbel and Cassini, who have

reported* that they have also seen the motion described by

Professor Schultz ; and I have myself witnessed it as is repre
sented by those observers. But it appears probable, from se
veral circumstances, that the motion that has been seen has
either been owing merely to the vessels in which it was re
marked having been cut through, and emptying themselves of
their contents, as Mr. Slack has suggested, or else was nothing
buSt ttrhuectucoremmoofnthreotAaxtoisry. --mFortoiomn
                                                       imperfectly  observed.  Desfon-
                                                       the period
                                                                    when M.
taines first demonstrated the existence of two totally distinct
modes of increase in the diameter of the stems of plants, it has

been received as a certain fact that monocotyledonous plants
increase by addition to the centre of their stem, and dicotyle
donous by addition to the circumference. Nothing has yet
arisen to throw any doubt upon the exactness of this notion in
regard to dicotyledonous plants ; but Dr. Hugo Mohl has
endeavoured to showf that monocotyledonous stems are not
·
   AMnonhalt,es"   ties Sciences, vol. xxii. p.  80.          Genera  et Species Palmarum.
t                 Dc Pain i ;u urn StTiictura,"  in MartiuVs

1833.                                            d
34 THIRD REPORT -- \833.

formed in the manner that has been supposed. According to
him, the new matter from which the wood results is not a mere
addition of new matter to the centre, but consists of bundles
of wood, which, originating at the base of the leaves, take first
a direction towards the centre, and then a course outwards

towards the circumference, forming a curve ; so that the stem
of a Palm is, in fact, a mass of woody arcs intersecting each
I Iother, and having their extremities next the circumference of
the trunk.      regret that have not been able to consult Dr.

Ivon Martius's splendid work on Palms since this Report was

commenced, and that am therefore unable to state upon what
evidence Dr.    Mohl
   The same     writer  has rested his   theory.                --  that  singular
                         has stated*    that Cycadece

tribe, which  visaspclauclaerd,plaasntist,w--eraer,eonnotthien  boundary line between
cellular and                                                    a great measure desti
tute of vessels as is commonly supposed, but, on the contrary,
                exclusively of spiral vessels                   anIdhatvheeiar lrmeaoddyificaad
are composed    any mixture of woody fibre.
tions, without
verted to this hypothesis in speaking of the same author's state
ment, that the dotted tubes of Cycadece are a slight modi
fication of vasa scalariformia.         Dr. Mohl is also            of opinion
                                         in their mode of           growth, as
that Cycadece are not exogenous
seems to be indicated by their appearance when cut, and by
their dicotyledonous embryo, but that they are more like
Palms in their manner of forming their wood, which is essen
tially endogenous. He asserts that the stem of Cycadece, in
regard to its anatomical condition, must be considered inter
mediate between that of Tree Ferns and Coniferce, just as their
leaves and fructification undoubtedly are. He states that in
Cycadece a body of wood is gradually formed of the fibres con
nected with the central and terminal bud ; that so long as this
original wood is soft, and capable of giving way to the fibres

that are continually passing downwards, no second cylinder of
wood is formed ; but in time the original wood becomes hard
ened, and then the new fibres find their way outward and down
ward, collecting into a second cylinder on the outside of the

original wood. It is obvious that this explanation is not so sa
tisfactory as could be desired ; for, in the first place, such a
distinction between Cycadece and Exogence as that which Dr.
Mohl states to exist, is verbal rather than real, since he admits
that the second cylinder of wood is formed externally to the

first ; and secondly, it is obvious that if that structure which is

represented in the 21st plate of the third volume of the Horttu

   · Veber den Bau des Cycadeen Stammes und sein Vcrhaltnisi xu rfi'n Stamm
der Coniferen und Baumfarrn. 4to. Munich, 1S32.
              REPORT ON THE PHILOSOPHY OF BOTANY.                             35

Malabaricus be correct, where the stem of Cycas circinalis is
shown to have several concentric zones, precisely as in other
exogenous trees, it must follow that Dr. Mohl's explanation
would be still more inadmissible ; accordingly, this author dis
credits the fact of the stem of Cycas circinalis having numer
ous concentric zones. It is, however, certain, from the speci
mens brought to England by Dr. Wallich, that the structure
of this Cycas is really such as is shown in the Hortus Malaba
ricus. It is nevertheless extremely well worth further inquiry
whether there is not some important but as yet undiscovered
peculiarity in the mode of forming their stem by Cycadece; for
it must be confessed that growth by a single terminal bud,
after the manner of Palms, is not what we should expect to
meet with in exogenous trees.
   Professor Schultz of Berlin  has  indicated        *       the  existence  of a

group of plants, the structure of whose stems he considers at
variance with all the forms at present recognised ; and to this
group he refers Cycadece : but the assemblage of orders which
he collects under what he calls the same plan of growth is so
extremely incongruous as to lead to no other conclusion than
that subordinate modifications of internal structure are of no
general importance, but are merely indicative of individual pe
culiarities.
   Dr. Mohl further states, that Cryptogamic plants of the
highest degree of organization, such as Ferns, Lycopodiacear,
Marsileacece, and Mosses, in all which a distinct axis is found,
have a mode of growth neither exogenous nor endogenous, but
altogether of a peculiar nature. In these plants, when once
the lower part of the stem is formed it becomes incapable of
any further alteration, but hardens, and the stem continues to
grow only by its point, which lengthens merely by the progres
sive development of the parts already formed, without sending
downwards any fibrous or woody bundles, as both in exoge

nous and endogenous plants.

   M. Lestiboudois, the Professor of Botany at Lille, distin

guishes Monocotyledons from Dicotyledons, upon principles
different from those generally admitted. According to this
writer, dicotyledonous trees have two systems, one, the central,
consisting of the medullary sheath and the wood ; the other,
the cortical, composing the bark. These two systems increase
separately, so that in Dicotyledons there are two surfaces of
increase, that of the central system, which adds to its outside,
and that of the cortical system, which adds to its inside : but

    · Nafnrllchcf Sys/em  des Pfl-anzenre'tchs  nach  seiner  innercn  Organization.
8vo. Berlin, K-,32.-
                                          nO
36 THIRD REPORT 1833.

in the stem of Monocotyledons there is only one surface of in
crease, namely, that on the inside ; and hence he concludes
that such plants have only a cortical system, and consist of

bark alone. It must be obvious that there are too many ana
tomical objections to this theory to render it deserving of any
other than this incidental notice*.
   The cause of the formation of wood has always been a sub

ject upon which physiologists have been unable to agree ; and

if the opinions held by the writers of the last century have been

disproved, it cannot be added that those of the present day are
by any means settled. It is now, indeed, admitted on all hands
that wood is a deposit in some way connected with the action
of leaves ; for it has been proved beyond all question that the
quantity of wood that is formed is in direct proportion to the
number of leaves that are evolved, and to their healthy action,
and that where no leaves are formed, neither is wood deposited.
But it is a subject of dispute whether wood is actually or
ganized matter generated by the leaves, and sent downwards
by them, or whether it is a mere secretion, which is deposited
in the course of its descent from the leaves to the roots. The
former opinion has been maintained in different forms by De
la Hire, Darwin, Du Petit Thouars, Poiteau, and
would perhaps have been more generally adopted   ifmiytsehlaf,d  and
                                                                 not

been too much mixed up with hypothetical statements, to the
reception of which there are in the opinion of many persons
strong objections. For example, it has been asserted that the
wood of trees is an aggregation of the roots of myriads of buds
in a state of action, and that consequently a tree is an asso
ciation of individuals having a peculiar organic adhesion and
a common system of growth, but each its own individual life.
To this view it is no doubt very easy to raise objections, some
of which it may be difficult, in the present state of our know
ledge, to answer ; and therefore it is better for the moment to
leave this part of the proposition out of consideration, and to
confine it to the simple statement that wood is organized matter,
generated by the leaves, and sent downwards by them. In
support of this it is argued : 1st, That an anatomical examination
of a plant shows that the woody systems of the leaf and stem
are continuous : 2ndly, That this is not only the fact in exogenous
plants, but in all endogenous and cellular plants that have
been examined ; so that it may be considered a universal law :
3rdly, That in the early spring, and for some time after plants be

gin to grow, the woody matter is actually to be seen and traced

· Achille Richard, Nouveaux Element de la Botanique, 5me edit. p. 119.
            REPORT ON THE PHILOSOPHY OF BOTANY.                          37

descending in parallel tubes from the origin of the leaves, and
from no other place : 4thly, That in all cases where obstacles
are presented to the descent of such tubes, they turn aside, and
afterwards resume their parallelism when the obstacle has been
passed by : 5thly, That in endogenous plants, such as Palms, and
in some exogenous trees, such as Lignum Vitce, they cross and
interlace each other in a manner which can only be accounted
for by their passing downwards, the one over the other, as the
leaves are developed : and, finally, That the perfect organization

of the wood is incompatible with a mere deposit of secreted
matter. To all which the following evidence has been added
by M. Achille Richard. He states* that he saw in the pos
session of Du Petit Thouars a branch of Robinia Pseudacacia,
on which Robinia hispida had been grafted. The stock had
died, but the scion had continued to grow, and had emitted
from its base a sort of plaster, formed of very distinct fibres,
which surrounded the extremity of the branch to some distance,
and formed a sort of sheath ; thus demonstrating incontestibly
that fibres do descend from the base of the scion, to overlay

the stock.
IfTo this several objections have been taken, the most im
portant of which are the following.                            wood were really or
ganized matter, emanating from the leaves, it must necessarily
happen that in grafted plants the stock ought in time to acquire
the nature of the scion, because its wood would be formed en
tirely by the addition of new matter, said to be furnished by
the leaves of the scion ; so far, however, is this from being the
fact, that it is well known that in the oldest grafted trees there

is no action whatever exercised by the scion upon the stock,
but that, on the contrary, a distinct line of organic demarcation
separates the wood of the one from the other, and the shoots
emitted from the stock by wood said to have been generated
     thsteoclke.avesAgoafint,h--e isfciaonr,inagreofinbaalrlk            of the nature of
by                                                             respects
the                                                              from a  red-wooded tree
is made to grow in the room of a similar ring of bark of a white-
wooded tree, as it easily may be made, the trunk will increase
in diameter, but all the wood beneath the ring of red bark will
be red, although it must have originated in the leaves of the
tree which produces white wood. It is further urged, that in
grafted plants the scion often overgrows the stock, increasing

much the more rapidly in diameter, or that the reverse takes
                 the Pavia
place, as when   -- and that  lutea   is grafted upon the common
Horse-chestnut,               these  circumstances are inconsistent

     · Nouveaux Element de la Bolaniqur, 5me edit. p. 105.
38 THIRD REPORT -- 1838.

with the supposition that the wood is organic matter engendered

by leaves. To these statements there is nothing to object as
mere facts, for they are true; but they certainly do not warrant
the conclusions that have been drawn from them. One most

important point is overlooked by those who employ these argu
ments, namely, that in all plants there are two distinct simul
taneous systems of growth, the cellular and the fibro-vascular,
of which the former is horizontal, and the latter vertical. The

cellular gives origin to the pith, the medullary rays, and the
principal part of the cortical integument ; the fibro-vascular, to
the wood and a portion of the bark ; so that the axis of a plant
may be not inaptly compared to a piece of linen, the cellular
system being the woof, the fibro-vascular the warp. It has also
been proved by Mr. Knight* and M. De Candollef that buds
are exclusively generated by the cellular  sNyostwemi,f            while    roots  are
evolved from the fibro-vascular system.                            these    facts  are

rightly considered, they will be found to offer an obvious expla
nation of the phaenomena produced by those botanists who think
that wood cannot be matter generated in an organic state by the
leaves. The character of wood is chiefly owing to the colour,
quantity, size, and distortions of the medullary rays, which be
long to the horizontal system ; it is for this reason that there is
so distinct a line drawn between the wood of the graft and
stock, for the horizontal systems of each are constantly pressing
together with nearly equal force, and uniting as the trunk in
creases in diameter. As buds from which new branches elon

gate are generated by cellular tissue, they also belong to the
horizontal system ; and hence it is that the stock will always
produce branches like itself, notwithstanding the long super
position of new wood which has been taking place in it from

the scion.
The case of a ring of red bark always forming red wood be
                  precisely of the same nature. After the new bark
neath  it,
has adhered to the mouths of the medullary rays of the stock,it is
and so identified itself with the horizontal system,
                 :                     it                                   gradually
                                           is

                                                                 it
                                                                        is
pushed outwards by the descent of woody matter from above
                    but in giving way  constantly generating red
through
matter from its horizontal system, through which the wood de
scends, which thus acquires a colour that does not properly
belong to it. With regard to the instances of grafts over
Ifgrowing their stock, or vice versa,
                                           obvious that these are
                                       it
                                           is

                                                         p.
susceptible of explanation upon the same principle. the hori
zontal system of both stock and scion has an equal power of

                    * Philosophical Transactions, 1805,      257.
                       Physiologie I'rgclalc, p. 158.
                    \
REPORT ON THE PHILOSOPHY OF BOTANY.                                                                                                  .'59

lateral extension,  the diameter of each will remain the same ;
                    more rapidly than the other, the diameters
but if one grows
will necessarily be different : where the scion has a horizontal
system that develops more rapidly than that of the stock, the
latter will be the smaller, and vice versa. It is* however, to be
observed, that in these cases plants are altogether in a morbid
state, and will not live for any considerable time.
bthyeTahalbocutsieornnuwomhfo,leaaonvbdejeswc,toeoittdohebtrhyesliubtpheperoo;sreyor--,o2f1nwsdto,lyotd,hathtbaeltiinb"getrhgeiesnwdeoeroavdteeylodpaenbddy
cortical layers originate laterally from the cambium furnished

by preexisting layers, and nourished by the descending sap*."

The first of these opinions appears to be that of M. Turpinf ,
IoasusfrefpalraInatsshacvaaenndrbieganhcitomllylaelcustne;ddebrufsrttoomIodmaulshotnisgfammireleyamncoinoirgn,fuespssoontmhtuahtceh
                                                                                                                                   grafting
                                                                                                                                    am not

                                                                                                                                    are his

facts mixed up with gratuitous hypothesis and obscure specu
lations upon the action of what he calls globuline. The second
is the opinion commonly entertained in France, and adopted
by M. De Candolle in his latest published work.
The objections to the views of M. Turpin need hardly be
stated in a Report like this, where conciseness is so much an
object. Those which especially bear upon the view taken by

M. De Candolle are, that his theory is not applicable to all
parts of the vegetable kingdom, but to exogenous plants only;
that it is inconceivable how the highly organized parallel tubes
of the wood, which can be traced anatomically from the leaves,
and which are formed with great rapidity, can be a lateral de
posit from the liber and alburnum ; that they are manifestly
formed long before it can be supposed that the leaves have
commenced their office of elaborating the descending sap; and,
finally, that endogenous and cryptogamic plants, in which there
                 sotoafftecMaom.fbDtihueims C,saunnbedjveoeclrtlteh,aetl"etshTsehethiamwveehoIwleaomoqdu.wersittiionng.
is no secretion                                                                                                                       To
   Such is the
                                                                                                                                     may
use the words
be reduced to this,-- Either there descend from the top of a tree
the rudiments of fibres, which are nourished and developed by
the juices springing laterally from the body of wood and bark,
or new layers are developed by preexisting layers, which are
nourished by the descending juices formed in the leaves J."
   As this is one of the most curious points remaining to be

settled among botanists, and as it is still as much open to dis

· De Candolle, Physiologie VegeLaU, p. 165.

t See Amialea des Sciences, vols. xxiv. and xxv., particularly vol. xxv. p. 43.

X De Candolle, Physiologie VfgUale, p. 157.
40 THIRD REPORT 1833.

Icussion as ever, have dwelt upon it at an unusual length, in
the hope that some Member of the British Association may
have leisure to prosecute the inquiry. Perhaps there is no
mode of proceeding to elucidate it which would be more likely

to lead to positive results, than a very careful anatomical exami

nation of the progressive development of the Mangel Wurzel
root, beginning with the dormant embryo, and concluding with

theArprearnfegcetmly enfotrmofeLdeapvlaens.t.-- It has for a long time been thought

that the various modes in which leaves, and the organs which
                of them, are arranged upon a
are the result  spiral, and that all deviations     stem might    be   re
duced to the                                         from this    law
                                                                        of
arrangement are to be considered as caused by the breaking of
spires into verticilli. In the Pine Apple, for instance, the Pine
Cone, the Screw Pine, and many other plants, the spiral arrange
ment of the leaves is so obvious that it cannot be overlooked ;
in trees with alternate leaves this same order of arrangement

may be discovered if a line is drawn from the base of one leaf

to that of another, always following the same direction; even
in verticillate plants we not unfrequently see that the whorls
are dislocated by the preternatural elongation of their axis, and

then become converted into a spire; and the same phaenome
non is of common occurrence among the verticilli of leaves in
the form of calyx, corolla, stamens, and carpella, which
pose the flower. This will be the more distinctly apparent        com

                                                                  if we
consider that, as M. Adolphe Brongniart has shown*, what we
call whorls in a flower often are not so, strictly speaking, but
only a series of parts placed in close approximation, and at dif
ferent heights, upon the short branch that forms their axis.

  fDr. Alexander Braun has endeavoured to prove mathema

tically that the spiral arrangement of the parts of plants is not
only universal, but subject to laws of a very precise nature.
His memoir is of considerable length, and would be wholly un
intelligible without the plates that illustrate it. It is therefore
only possible on this occasion to mention the results. Setting
out with a contemplation of the manner in which the scales of
a Pine Cone are placed, to which a long and ingenious method
of analysis was applied, he found that several different series of
spires are discoverable, between which there invariably exist
peculiar arithmetical relations, which are the expression of the
various combinations of a certain number of elements disposed

in a regular manner. All these spires depend upon the posi-

   · yinnales des Sciences, vol. xxiii. p. 22fi.    der Schvppen  an den Tan-
    + Vergleichende Vntertuchung iiber die Ordnung
ncitzapfen. 4to. 1830.
             REPORT ON THE PHILOSOPHY OF BOTANY.                                       41

tion of a fundamental series, from which the others are devia
tions. The nature of the fundamental series is expressed by a
fraction, of which the numerator indicates the whole number
of turns required to complete one spire, and the denominator
the number of scales or parts which constitute it: thus ?8T in
dicates that eight turns are made round the axis before any
scale or part is exactly vertical to that which was first formed,
and the number of scales or parts that intervene before this

coincidence    takes place is twenty-one.                has         as  yet  led  to  any
             not appear that this inquiry
  It does

practical application, although one might have expected that
as the natural affinities of plants are determined, in a great de
gree, by the accordance that is observable in the relative posi
tion of their parts, the spires of which those parts are composed
might have had something in common                       wIfhiacnhy
tible of being expressed by numbers.                                 would be   suscep
                                                                     practical  applica
tion can be made of Dr. Braun's fractions, it seems likely to be
confined to the distinction of species. His observations seem,
however, to have established the truth of the doctrine that, be
                                                  the whole of   the appendages of
ginning   woifthpltahnets,c--otyleleadvoenss,,                   stamens, and car-
the axis                                        calyx, corolla,
pella, -- form an uninterrupted spire, governed by laws which

are almost constant.    --The                   leaves  of plants have been found
                                                to be   not merely expansions of
  Structure of Leaves.
by M. Adolphe Brongniart
the cellular integument of stems, traversed by veins originating
in the woody system, but to be organs in which the internal
parenchyma is arranged with beautiful uniformity, in the man
ner most conducive to the end of exposure to light and air, and
of elaboration, for which the leaves are chiefly destined. In
their usual structure leaves have been found by this observer
either to consist of two principal layers, -- of which the upper,
into which the ascending sap is first introduced, is formed of
compact cells, more or less perpendicular to the plane of the cu
ticle, and the under, into which the returning sap is propelled,
is formed of very   lax cavernous                         more or less parallel with
the cuticle of the   lower surface,             tissue,  else of two layers perpen

                                                -- or

dicular to the cuticle, with a central parallel stratum.
The observations of Drs. Mohl and Meyen generally confirm
this ; but at the same time the latter instances several cases in
which the texture of the leaf has been found to be nearly the

same throughout.
   Dutrochet * states, in addition, that the interior of the leaf

             · Avualcs des Science-', vol. xxv. p. 245.
48 THIRD REPORT 1833.

is divided completely by a number of partitions caused by the
ribs and principal veins, so that the air cavities have not actually
a free communication in every direction through the parenchy
ma, but are to a certain extent cut off from each other. This
is conformable to what M. Mirbel has described in Marchantia,
who finds the leafy expansions of that plant separated by par
titions into chambers, between which he is of opinion that

there is no other communication than what results from the per
meability of the tissue *.
The statement of M. Adolphe Brongniart, that all leaves in
tended to exist in the air are furnished with a distinct cuticle

on their two faces, while those which are developed under
water have no cuticle at all, has not been disproved, unless in

fthe case of Marchantia , whose under surface can scarcely be
said to have a distinct cuticle; but this plant, which can only
exist in humid shady places, is perhaps rather a proof of the
accuracy of the theory of M. Brongniart than an exception

to it.
   That the stomata in all cases open
                                            into internal cavities in
the leaf, where the tissue is extremely
                                            lax and cavernous, ap
pears also extremely probable. It was especially found to be
the case by M. Mirbel in his so often quoted remarks upon
Marchantia.
   With
         regard to  the stomata themselves,                  no one appears yet
to have  confirmed
                    the observation of Dr.                   Brown J, that their
apparent orifice is closed up by a membrane. On the contrary,

the observations of M. Mirbel on Marchantia, if they are to

be taken as illustrative of the usual structure of those singular
organs, go to establish the accuracy of the common opinion
that the stomata are apertures in the cuticle. That most skil
ful physiologist, while watching the development of Marchantia,
treamkianrgkepdlactehethvuesry: --bTirhthe  of the stomata,  which he describes as
                                            appearance of a  little pit in the middle
of four or five cells placed in a ring is a certain indication of
the beginning of a stoma. The pit
enlargement and separation of the           evidently increases             bIyf  the
                                            surrounding cells.                    the

nascent stoma consists of five cells, of which one is surrounded

by four others, then the central one is destroyed; but if it con

sists of three or four cells adjusted so as to form a disk, then
the stoma is caused by the separation of their sides in the cen
tre, by which means a sort of star is created. It is true that

   · " Recherehes Anatomiques et Physiologiques sur          lc Marchantia  polymor-
pha," in Nouveaux Annates du Musfum, vol. i. p. 7.           p. 3.

  jt Ibid. p. 93.
      Suppl. primum Prodromi Flora Novee Hollaudiir,
             REPORT ON THE PHILOSOPHY OF BOTANY.                                                      43

the stomata of  Mupaornchfalonwtiaerinagrepilnanstsom; eyertesIptehcitnsk                             different from
what are found                                                                                        we can hardly

doubt that the plan upon which they are all formed is essen
tially the same.
   Dutrochet also confirms * the statement of Amici, that the

stomata are perforations ; for he finds that when leaves are de
prived of their air by the air-pump, it is chiefly on the under
side, where the greatest number of stomata is found, that little
air bubbles make their appearance ; and that it is through the
stomata that water rushes into the cavernous parenchyma to
                                                                                                       of air.
supply the   6lloifncse.s--s oStchcoeamsecioenlclesudroiofbuytshetrheaemnaatbhrksestrrahucatpivooenn  the nature of the
   Anther,                                                                                            been published by

tissue that
Dr. John E. Purkinje, Professor of Medicine at Breslau. His
researches are chiefly directed to the determination of the na
ture of the tissue that is in immediate contact with the pollen ;

and he has demonstrated in an elaborate Essay f, that the opi
nion emitted by Mirbel in 1808 J, that the cause of the dehis
cence of the anther is its lining, consisting of cellular tissue cut
into slits and eminently hygrometrical, is substantially true.
He shows that this lining is composed of cellular tissue chiefly
of the fibrous kind, which forms an infinite multitude of little
springs, that when dry contract and pull back the valves of the
anthers by a powerful accumulation of forces which are indivi
dually scarcely appreciable : so that the opening of the anther
is not  a mere act of chance,    b--utantheepoacdhmairtawblhyichcotnhterivseudrroreusnudlt
of the  maturity of the pollen,
ing tissue is necessarily exhausted of its fluid by the force of
endosmosis exercised by each particular grain of pollen.
That this exhaustion of the circumambient tissue by the en
dosmosis of the pollen is not a mere hypothesis,
shown by Mirbel in a continuation of the beautiful                                                    mhaesmobier enI
have already so often referred to §. He finds that, on the one
hand, a great abundance of fluid is directed into the utricles,
in which the pollen is developed a little before the maturity of
the latter, and that by a dislocation of those utricles the pollen
loses all organic connexion with the lining of the anther ; and
that, on the other hand, these utricles are dried up, lacerated,

and disorganized, at the time when the pollen has acquired its
full development.

   · Annates des Sciences, vol. xxv. p. 247.

  t De Cellulis Antherarum fibrosis. 4 to. Wratislaviae, 1830.

   X "Observations sur un Systemc d'Anatomie Comparee de VegGtaux, fondes
sur l'Organization de la Fleur," in Memoires de llnstitut, 1808, p. 331.

   § "Complement des Observations sur le Marchantia potymorpha ," in Ar

chives de Bolanique, vol. i.
44 THIRD REPORT -- 1833.

   The Origin of the Pollen, connected as it intimately is with
the singular phaenomena of vegetable sexuality, has naturally
been of late an object of some inquiry. To the important dis
coveries of the younger Brongniart and of Dr. Robert Brown,
M. Mirbel has added some observations*, detailed with that

admirable clearness and precision which give so great a value
to all his writings, and which are the more interesting as they
serve to explain what was before obscure, and to correct what
appears to have been either inaccurately or imperfectly de-
cribed. This he has been enabled to do by beginning his in
quiry at the very earliest period when the organization of the
anther can be discovered : bis subject was the common Gourd.

At a very early time the whole tissue of the anther is of the

most perfect uniformity, consisting of cellules, the transverse
section of which represents nearly regular hexagons and penta
gons. In every cell, without even excepting those which com
pose the superficies of the anther, are found little loose bodies,
so exceedingly minute that a magnifying power of 500 or 600
diameters is scarcely sufficient to examine them: they may be
compared to transparent, nearly colourless vesicles, more or

less round, and of unequal size. At a stage but little more ad
vanced, you may observe on each side of the medial line of a
transverse section of a lobe of an anther, a collection of cellules

rather larger than the remainder: it will afterwards be seen
that it is here that the pollen is engendered; such cells are
therefore called pollen-cells. In a bud, a line and a half or two
lines in diameter, some remarkable alterations were found to
have taken place ; the pollen-cells had enlarged and their gra
nules had so much increased in number, that they nearly filled
the cells in opake masses. These granules and pollen-cells
formed together a greyish mass, connected with the rest of the
tissue by the intervention of a cellular membrane, which, not
withstanding its organic continuity with the surrounding parts,
is at once distinguishable ; for while the cells of the surrounding
parts elongate parallel to the plane of the surface, and to the
plane of the base of the anther, those of the cellular membrane
elongate from the centre to the circumference. In more ad
vanced anthers, the sides of the pollen-cells, from being thin
and dry, had changed to a perceptible thickness, and their sub
stance, gorged with fluid, resembled a colourless jelly. When
the buds were three or four lines long, an unexpected phaeno-

menon presented itself. At first the thick and succulent walls
of each pollen-cell dilated so as to leave an empty space between

the inner face and the granules, not one of which separated

               · "Complement des Observations," fyc., as above quoted.
REPORT ON THE PHILOSOPHY OF BOTANY.                                                                45

from the general mass, which showed that some power kept
them united. Shortly after, four appendages, like knife-blades,
developed at equal distances upon the inner face of the cell,
and gradually projected their edges towards the centre, till at
last they divided the granular mass into four little triangular
bodies; when the appendages had completely united at their
edges, they divided the cavity of the pollen-cells into four di
stinct boxes, which then began to rounden, and finally became
little spherical masses. Each of these was the rudiment of a
grain of pollen, subsequently acquired a membranous integu
ment, hardened, became yellow, and thus arrived at maturity.
What is perhaps most important in these observations is the
demonstration of the original organic continuity of all the parts
of the anther, against the statement of M. Adolphe Brongniart,
and also against what appears to be the opinion of Dr. Brown,
as far as can be collected from the manner in which he speaks

of the evolution of the pollen in Tradescantia virginica *.
   Although it is not directly shown
ther the perfect grain of pollen has                    obunynestehotretsletewd,oob--isnetitervgnauetmivoeenrnstthse,wle--hsesa  --<
question that may still be said to be
appears from other instances that M. Mirbel admits the exist-                                                                    "-->
fence of an                                                                                                                             y-

extensible
outer            not  distensible coat, and of an inner highly
lining.               curious paper upon this point has been
                   A
published by a Saxon botanist named Fritzsche. By means of
a mixture of two parts by weight of concentrated sulphuric                                                                       p- -£
acid, and five parts of water, he found that the grains of pollen
can be rendered so transparent as to reveal their internal struc-                                                                'K,,'
ture, and that the whole process of the emission of the pollen-                                                                         <--.

                                                                                                                                        fr;

tubes can be distinctly traced. He describes the universal pie-                                                                  J~ 53
sence of two coatings to the grains of pollen ; and he also finds
that the pollen                           a--qua afnatcittywohficohilyhapsaratliscolesbeeinn  addition                           .-- ^>
to the moving      contains                                                                    noticed
by Dr. Brown.    corpuscles,                                                                                                     ££ r^

Although the generalizations in this work are less satisfactory                                                                  r*"" "*

                                                                                                                                 C

than could be desired, it must nevertheless be considered a
most valuable collection of facts, and as containing the best
arrangement that has as yet appeared of the various forms un
deFr ewrthiilcizhatthioenp. o--lleTnheis
                                          seen.  which  some  years  since                    was  so
                                          road
happily opened by Amici to the discovery of the exact manner
in which vegetable fertilization takes effect, is every day be
coming more and more direct. The doubts of those who could
not discern the tubes that are projected into the style by the

* Observations upon OrchideiE and Asclepiadere, p. 21.

t Beitriige zur Kennlniss det Pollen. 4to. Berlin,
46 THIRD REPORT-- 1833.

pollen, have been removed; the important demonstration by
Dr. Brown of the universal presence of a passage through the
integuments of the ovulum at the point of the nucleus has been
                                      M. Mirbel in     a paper of the high
extended and         confirmed by     is at the point  of the nucleus (where
              *     the fact that it
est interest     ;

this passage exists,) that the nascent embryo makes it appear
ance, is now undisputed; the passage of the contents of the
pollen down the pollen-tubes, and the curious discovery of a
power of motion in the granules that are thus emitted, are also
recognised : it now only remains to be proved that the pollen-
tubes come in contact with the nucleus, and the whole secret of

fertilization is revealed. A few remarkable contributions to
this part of the subject have lately been made.
Some plants have the passage or foramen in their ovulum so
remote from any part through which the pollen-tubes can be
supposed to convey their influence, as to have thrown consider
able difficulty in the way of the supposition that actual contact
between the point of the nucleus and the fertilizing tissue is

indispensable.

   The manner in which, notwithstanding the apparent difficulty
of such contact taking place, this happens in Statice Armeria,

Iwas long since made out by Dr. Brown, in whose possession
several years ago saw drawings illustrating this phaenomenon ;
it has since been explained by M. Mirbel. Another case, pre

senting similar apparent difficulties, occurs in Helianthemum.

In plants of that genus the foramen is at that end of the ovulum
which is most remote from the hilum ; and although the ovula
themselves are elevated upon cords much longer than are usually
met with, yet there are no obvious means of their coming in con
tact with any part through which the matter projected into the

                   can be supposed to descend. It has, however,
pobelelen na-stucebretasined by M. Adolphe Brongniartf , that at the time
when the stigma is covered with pollen, and fertilization has
taken effect, there is a bundle of threads, originating from the
base of the style, which hang down in the cavity of the ovarium,
and, floating there, are abundantly sufficient to convey the in
fluence of the pollen to the points of the nuclei. So again in
Asclepiadece. In this tribe, from the peculiar conformation of
the parts, and from the grains of pollen being all shut up in a
sort of bag, out of which there seemed to be no escape, it was
supposed that this tribe must at least form an exception to the
general rule. But before the month of November 1828 J, the

· Nouvelles Jlecherchcs stir la Structure de V Ovule VegHalet sur ses Deve-
loppements. Also Additions aux 'Nouvelles Rec/ierches,' tyc.
                                             J Linnaa, vol. iv. p. 94.
-f Annates des Sciences, vol. xxiv. p. 123.
            REPORT ON THE PHILOSOPHY OF BOTANY.                                       47

celebrated Prussian traveller and botanist Ehrenberg had dis
covered that the grains of pollen of Asclepiadece acquire a sort
of tails which are all directed to a suture of their sac on the side
next the stigma, and which at the period of fertilization are
lengthened and emitted ; but he did not discover that these
tails are only formed subsequently to the commencement of a
new vital action connected with fertilization, and he thought
that they were of a different nature from the pollen-tubes of
other plants ; he particularly observed in Asclepias syriaca
that the tails become exceedingly long and hang down.
In 1831 the subject was resumed by Dr. Brown* in this
country, and by M. Adolphe Brongniartf in France, at times so
nearly identical, that it really seems to me impossible to say
wwiitllhthwehreicfohrethebedoisnclyovjeursyticaeboifutthetoEbsesamysenretifoenreredd  originated : it
                                                                                       to are spoken
of collectively instead of separately. These two distinguished
botanists ascertained that the production of tails by the grains
of pollen was a phenomenon connected with the action of ferti
lization ; they confirmed the existence of the suture described
by Ehrenberg ; they found that the true stigma of Asclepia-
dece is at the lower part of the discoid head of the style, and
so placed as to be within reach of the suture through which the
pollen-tubes or tails are emitted ; they remarked that the latter
insinuate themselves below the head of the style, and follow its
surface until they reached the stigma, into the tissue of which
they buried themselves so perceptibly that they were enabled to
trace them, occasionally, almost into the cavity of the ovarium ;
and thus they established the highly important fact, that this
family, which was thought to be one of those in which it was
impossible to suppose that fertilization takes place by actual

contact between the pollen and the stigma, offers the most
beautiful of all examples of the exactness of the theory, that it
is at least owing to the projection of pollen-tubes into the sub
stance of the stigma. In the more essential parts these two
observers are agreed : they, however, differ in some of the de
Itails ; as, for instance, in  the texture of the part of the style
                               stigma, and into which the pollen-
which have here called
tubes are introduced. M. Brongniart both describes and figures
it as much more lax than the contiguous tissue, while on the
other hand  "Dtrh.e  Brown declares that he has in no case been
to observe            slightest appearance of secretion, or any                       able
                                                                                       dif-

   · Observations on the Organs and Mode of Fecundation of Orchideae and
Asclepiadee. London, October 1831.

   T Annates des Sciences for October and November 1831 ; from observations
made in July, August and September of that year.
48 THIRD REPORT 1833.

Iferences whatever in texture between that part and the general

surface of the stigma" (meaning what have described as the
discoid head of the style) : but this is not the place for entering
into the discussion of these subordinate points.

    Orchidece are another tribe in which similar difficulties have
been found in reconciling structure with the necessity of con
tact between the pollen and stigma in order to effect impregna

tion. Indeed it seems in these plants as if every possible pre

caution had been taken by nature to prevent such contact.
Nevertheless it is represented by M. Adolphe Brongniart, in a

paper read before the Academy of Sciences of Paris in July

1831 *, that contact is as necessary in these plants as in others,
and that in the emission of pollen-tubes they do not differ from
other plants. These statements have been followed up by Dr.

Brown f, in an elaborate Essay upon the subject, in which the

results that are arrived at by our learned countryman are es

sentially to the same effect. To these there is at present no
                                          oppose ; but as the indirect observa
thing  oefqMuarl.lyBapuoseirtivJe,    to  the general structure of the order, are
tions                               and

very much at variance with the probability of actual contact
being necessary, and especially as Dr. Brown is obliged to have
recourse to the supposition that the pollen of many of these
        imt uisstnabteuraaclltyualollcykecdaruripe,d--bityminusset cbtse             from the boxes in
plants                            IofmfuesrttilpizaarttiiocnulainrlyOrcrehmidaercke
which                                                                                considered, I think,

that the mode                                                                        is still far from being
determined.                                                                          that the very proble
matical agency of insects, to which Dr. Brown has recourse in
order to make out his case, seems to be singularly at variance
with his supposition§ that the insect forms, which in Ophrys
are so striking, and which he finds resemble the insects of the

countries in which the plants are found, are intended rather to
repel than to attract. It may be true, as Dr. Brown observes,
that there is less necessity for the agency of insects in such
flowers as the European Ophrydece ; but what other means
than the assistance of insects can be supposed to extricate the
pollen from the cells in the insect flowers of such plants as
Renanthera Arachnites, the whole genus Oncidium, Tetramicra
rigida, several species of Epidendriim, Cymbidium tenuifolium,
Vanda peduncularis, and a host of others ?

   · Annates des Sciences, vol. xxiv. p. 113.
   t Observations upon the Organs and Mode of Fecundation of Orchidere and
Asclepiadere.
                                                                                     Plants. Part II.
"  X Illustrations                of the Genera and Species of     Orchideous
   F§ru"ctPirfoiccaetpidoinng,"s                                   5, 1832, as       given in the Lon
                                  tabb. 5. 12. 13. 14.
                                    of the Linnean Society," June

don and Edinburgh Philosophical Magazine and Journal.
       REPORT ON THE PHILOSOPHY OF BOTANY.     49

   Origin of Organs. -- There is no part of vegetable physiology
so obscure as that which relates to the origin of organs. We
find a degree of simplicity that is perfectly astonishing in the
fundamental structure of the whole vegetable kingdom; we
are able to prove by rigorous demonstration that every one of
the appendages of the axis is a modification of a leaf, to which
there is a constant tendency to revert; we see that in some cases
a part which usually performs one function assumes another,
as in the Alstromerias, whose leaves by a twist of their petiole
turn their under surface upwards : but we are entirely ignorant

of the causes to which these changes are owing. An impor
tant step in elucidating the subject has been lately taken by

M. Mirbel, in his memoir upon the structure of Marchantia po-
lymorpha. The young bulbs by which this plant is multiplied

are originally so homogeneous in structure, that there is no
apparent character in their organization to show which of their
faces is destined to become the upper surface, and which the
under. For the purpose of ascertaining whether there existed
any natural but invisible predisposition in the two faces to un
dergo the changes which subsequently become so apparent,
and by means of which their respective functions are performed,
or whether the tendency is given by some cause posterior to
their first creation, the following experiments were instituted.
Five bulbs were sown upon powdered sandstone, and it was
found that the face which touched the sandstone produced

roots, and the opposite face formed stomata. It was, however,
possible that the five bulbs might have all accidentally fallen
upon the face which was predisposed to emit roots ; other
experiments of the same kind were therefore    tried, first with
eighty and afterwards with hundreds of little  bulbs, -- and the

result was the same as with the five. This proved that either
face was originally adapted for producing either roots or sto

mata, and that the tendency was determined merely by the po

sition in which the surfaces were placed. The next point to
ascertain was, whether the tendency once given could be after
wards altered ; some little bulbs, that had been growing for
twenty-four hours only, had emitted roots ; they were turned,
so that the upper surface touched the soil, and the under was
exposed to light. In twenty-four hours more the two faces
had both produced roots ; that which had originally been the
under surface went on pushing out new roots ; that which had

originally been the upper surface had also produced roots :
but in a few days the sides of the young plants began to rise
from the soil, became erect, turned over, and finally recovered

1833.  .e
50 THIRD REPORT -- 1833.

in this way their original position, and the face which had ori
ginally been the uppermost, immediately became covered with
stomata. It, therefore, appears that the impulse once given,
the predisposition to assume particular appearances or func
tions is absolutely fixed, and will not change in the ordinary
course of nature. This is a fact of very high interest for
those who are occupied in researches into the causes of what is
called vegetable metamorphosis, an expression which has been
justly criticised as giving a false idea of the subject to which
it  relates.
    Morphology.  --When                                    first
                         those   who                              seized  upon the  im
portant but neglected facts out of which the modern theory of
morphology has been constructed, asserted that all the appen
dages of the axis of a plant are metamorphosed leaves, more
was certainly stated than the evidence would justify ; for we
cannot say that an organ is a metamorphosed leaf, which in
point of fact has never been a leaf. What was meant, and that
which is supported by the most conclusive evidence, is, that
every appendage of the axis, whether leaf, bractea, sepal, petal,
stamen, or pistillum, is originally constructed of the same ele
ments, arranged upon a common plan, and varying in their
manner of development, not on account of any original differ
ence in structure, but on account of special and local predis
posing causes : of this the leaf is taken as the type, because it
        oofrgthaonsewheilecmh eisntms, o--stisustuhaaltly   the result of
is the                                                     to which the    the develop
ment                                                                       other organs

generally revert, when from any accidental disturbing cause
                                                           which they were originally
they do not   assume    the appearance to                  in which we have the most
predisposed,            moreover, is that
               -- and,
complete state of organization.
    This is not a place for the discussion of the details upon
which the theory of morphology is founded ; it is sufficient to
state that it has become the basis of all philosophical views of
structure, and an inseparable part of the science of botany. Its
Ipractical importance will be elucidated by the following circum

stance. Fourteen or fifteen years ago was led to take a
view of the structure of Reseda very different from that usually

assigned to the genus ; and when a few years afterwards that
view was published, it attracted a good deal of attention, and
gained some converts among the botanists of Germany and

IFrance. It was afterwards objected to by Dr. Brown upon

several grounds ; but am not aware that they were considered
sufficiently valid to produce any change in the opinions of those
who had adopted my hypothesis. Lately, however, Professor
       REPORT ON THE PH1LOSOPHV OF BOTANY.                                    51

Henslow has satisfactorily proved*, in part by the aid of a

monstrosity in the common Mignonette, and in part by a severe
Iapplication of morphological rules, that my hypothesis must

necessarily be false ; and am glad to have this opportunity of
expressing my full concurrence in his opinion.

   It has long been known that the ligulate and tubular corollas
of Composites are anatomically almost identical, and that their
difference consists only in the five petals of the tubular corolla
all separating regularly for a short distance from their apex,
while the five petals of the ligulate corolla adhere up to their
very points, except on the side next the axis of inflorescence,
where two of them are altogether distinct except at their base.
M. Leopold von Buch explains this circumstance in the follow
ing manner. He states that these ligulate corollas when unex-
panded bear at their point a little, white, and very viscid body
or gland, which is a peculiar secretion that dries up when it
comes in contact with the atmosphere. The adhesion of this
gland is too powerful to be overcome by the force of the style
and stamens pressing against it from within. The corollas, which
are gradually curved outwards by the growth of those in the
centre of the inflorescence, at the same time bend down the
style, which consequently presses up against the line of union
of the two petals nearest the axis : although the style cannot
overcome the adhesion of the viscid gland at the point of the
corolla, it is able in time to destroy the union of the two inte
rior petals, which finally give way and allow the stamens and
style to escape. As soon as this takes place, the corolla can no
longer remain erect, but falls back towards the circumference

of the capitulum, and thus contributes to the radiating character
of this sort of inflorescence. When the viscid body is either
not at all, or very imperfectly produced at the point of the co
Hro.llab,ifuasrcusomm, ettiumbeuslahrapcpoeronlslasin       genus Hieracium,
                                                       the  produced instead  especially
                                                       are
                                                                              of ligulate

ones.

The ovulum is the organ where the greatest difficulty has
occurred in reducing the structure to anything analogous to

that of other parts. It is true that Du Petit Thouars regarded
it as analogous to a leaf          but his view appears to have been
purely hypothetical, for   Ibud ;  not aware that he had any distinct
                               am
evidence of the fact. Some years ago M. Turpin, in showing

the great similarity that exists between the convolute bracteae
of certain Marcgraviacece and the exterior envelope of the
ovulum, took the first step towards proving that the hypothesis

· Transactions  of the Philosophical Society of Cambridge, vol. v. Part I.
                                         E2
52 THIRD REPORT 1833.

of Du Petit Thouars was susceptible of demonstration ; it was
more distinctly shown by the interesting discovery of Professor
Henslow, that the leaves of Malaxis paludosa had on their
margins what no doubt must be considered buds, but what in

structure are an intermediate state between buds and ovula ;
and it has been recently asserted by Engelmann*, still, how

ever, without the production of any proof, that "ovula are buds
of a higher kind, their integuments leaves, and their funiculus
the axis, all which, in cases of retrograde metamorphosis, are in
fact converted into stem and green leaves." The nearest ap
proach to a demonstration that has yet been afforded of ovula
being buds is in a valuable paper by Professor Henslow, just
printed in the Transactions ofthe Philosophical Society of Cam-
bridgef, in which it is shown that in the Mignonette the ovula
are in fact transformed occasionally into leaves, either solitary
or rolled together round an axis, of which the nucleus is the

Jtermination.
    M. Dumortier has endeavoured to prove that the embryo
itself is essentially the same as a single internodium of the stem
with its vital point or rudimentary bud attached to it. Although
the author's demonstration is a failure, and his paper a series
of confused and illogical reasoning, yet there can be little doubt
that the hypothesis itself is a close approximation to the truth.

    Dr. George Engelmann has recently attempted § to classify
the aberrations from normal structure, which throw so much
light upon the real origin and nature of the organs of plants.
He has collected a very considerable number of cases under
the following heads. 1. Retrograde metamorphosis (Regresstts),
when organs assume the state of some of those on the outside
of them, as when carpella change to stamens or petals, hypo-
gynous scales to stamens, stamens to petals or sepals, sepals to
ordinary leaves, irregular structure to regular, and the like.
2. Foliaceous metamorphosis (Virescentia), when all the parts
of a flower assume more or less completely the state of leaves.
3. Disunion (Disjunctio), when the parts that usually cohere
are separated, as the carpella of a syncarpous pistillum, the
filaments of monadelphous stamens, the petals of a monopeta-
lous corolla, &c. 4. Dislocation (Apostasis) ; in this case the
whorls of the flower are broken up by the extension of the
axis. 5. Viviparousness (Diaphysis), when the axis is not only
elongated, but continues to grow and form new parts, as in those

· De Antholysi Prodromus, p. 61.           t v°l- T- Faat I.

I Nova Acta AcademUe Naturce Curiosorum,  vol. xvi. p. 215.
J De Antholysi Prodromus.
REPORT ON THE PHILOSOPHY OF BOTANY.                              53

instances where one flower grows from within another. And
finally, 6. Proliferousness (Ecblastesis), when buds are deve
loped in the axillae of the floral organs,
ple flower into a mass of inflorescence.     so as to convert a sim

                                               A very considerable
number of instances are adduced in illustration of these divi
sions, and the work will be found highly useful as a collection

of curious or important facts.
   The doctrines of morphology, and the evidence in support

of them, may now be considered so far settled as to require but
little further illustration for the present. This is, however,
only true of flowering plants : in the whole division of flower-

less plants there has been scarcely any attempt to discover the
Ianalogy of organs, and to  reduce their structure
                                    some time since  *  to a correspond
ing state of identification.                            endeavoured to

excite attention to this subject, by hazarding some speculations

Iwhich had at least the merit of novelty to recommend them ;

but cannot discover that any one has since turned his atten
tion to the inquiry, although it must be confessed that the com
parative anatomy of flowerless plants is among the most inter
esting topics still remaining for discussion, and that it is rather
discreditable to Cryptogamic botanists that the elucidation of
so very curious a matter should be postponed to the compara
tively unimportant business of distinguishing or dividing genera

and species.  Development.    --The  theory  of the     gradual  deve

   Gradual
lopment of the highest class of organic bodies, in consequence
of a combination and complication of the phaenomena attendant
upon the development of the lowest classes, has acquired so
great a degree of probability among animals, that it has become
a question of no small interest whether traces of the same, or a
similar law, cannot be found among plants. In an inquiry of
such a nature, it seems obvious that attention should in the first

instance be directed to a search after positive and incontestable
facts, and that mere hypotheses should in the beginning be to
tally rejected. The only circumstances that occur to me as

bearing directly upon this point are the following. It has been
ascertained by M. Mirbel, in his memoir on the Marchantia,
that the sporule of that very simple plant is a single vesicle,
which, when it begins to grow, produces other vesicles on its
surface, which go on propagating in the same manner, every

new vesicle engendering others ; and that different modifica

tions of this process produce the different parts that the per

fect plant finally develops.

  · Outlines of the First Principles of Botany, p. 533, &c. Introduction to the
Natural System of Botany, p. 313, &c.
54 THIRD REPORT -- 3833.

   The same principle of growth appears to obtain in Conferva;,
and probably is found in other vegetables of the lowest grade.
This is analogous to what takes place in the formation of the
embryo of Vasculares. In the opinion of Dr. Brown and of
Mirbel, the first rudiment of a plant far more complicated than
Marchantia, consists also of a vesicle, but suspended by a
thread to the summit of the cavity of the ovulum ; and the dif

ference between  the one   cvaesseiclaen, d"  the  other is, that while   in the
Marchantia the   original                     as   soon as it is formed,    pos

sesses all the conditions requisite for developing a complete
plant on the surface of the soil ; on the other hand, that of
flowering plants must, on pain of death, commence its deve
lopment in the interior of the ovulum, and cannot continue it
further until it has produced the rudiments of root, stem, and
Icotyledons *.

   Beyond this do not think that any attempt has been made

fto Ierlruitcaidbaitleityt.he--qDure.stiDonu.trochet has published the result of
some experiments with the air-pump upon the pneumatic system
of plants. Independently of confirming the fact, already gene
rally known, of plants having the means of containing a large
quantity of air, he arrived at the unexpected result, that the
sleep of plants and their irritability
the presence of air within them.              are  certainly  dependent upon
                                                   sensitive  plant, left in the
                                              A
vacuum of an air-pump for eighteen hours, indicated no sign
whatever of the accustomed collapse of its leaflets on the ap
proach of night, nor when it was restored to the air could it be
stimulated by the smartest shocks ; but in time it recovered its
irritability. When flowers that usually close at night were
placed in a vacuum while expanded, they would not close; and

when flowers already closed were placed in the same situation,
they would not unfold at the return of morning ; whence Dr.
Dutrochet infers that the internal air of plants is indispensably
necessary to the exercise of their alternate motions of sleeping
and waking, and in general to the existence of the faculty they
possess of indicating by their movements the influence of ex

ternal exciting causes.           --  Professor    Morren,    of Ghent,   has

  Action of Coloured Light.
mentioned \ the result of some experiments upon the action of
the coloured rays upon germination ; and he has found that
while those rays in which the illuminating power is the most
feeble were, as might have been expected, the most favourable
to germination, their power of decomposing carbonic acid, and

* Archives de Bolanique, vol. i.  | .tnnales des Sciences, vol. XXV. p. 243.

X Annates des Sciences, vol. xxvii. p. 201.
                  REPORT ON THE PHILOSOPHY OF BOTANY.                               55

producing a green deposit in the parenchyma, is in proportion
to their illuminating property ; that no decomposed rays effect
this so rapidly as white light; and that the yellow ray possesses

the greening power in the highest degree, the orange in a very

sligChotloduergsr.e--e,Naonthdinvgiolecta,n  red  and purple not at all.            of bo
                                              be  named in the whole range
tany upon which information is so much wanted as the cause of
the various colours of plants. It was, indeed, long since sus
pected by Lamarck that the autumnal colouring of leaves and
fruits was a morbid condition of those parts ; and it has subse

quently been ascertained that all colours are owing to the pre
sence of a substance, called chromule by De Candolle, which
fills the parenchyma, assuming different tints. Green has also
been clearly made out to be connected with exposure to light,

and has been considered to be in all probability owing to the
deposition of the carbon left upon the decomposition of car
bonic acid. Some botanists have also observed the connexion
of red colour with acidity ; but still we had scarcely any positive
knowledge of      tMheaccaairueseoof fGtehneevparo*durecmtioanrkeodf,  any colour
green, till M.                                                           that just  except
                                                                                    before

leaves begin to change colour in the autumn, they cease parting
with oxygen in the day, although they go on absorbing it at
night ; whence he concluded that their
by which a yellow colour is first caused,         chromule             is  roexdy,g--enfaotredh,e
                                                  and then             a

found that in all cases a change to red is preceded by a change
to yellow. He also ascertained that the chromule of the red
bracteae and calyx of Salvia splendens is chemically the same
as that of autumnal leaves. Coupling this with the fact that
                  not part with oxygen, it would   seem as if their colour,
ipfetyaelsllodwo  or red, may also be owing to    a kind of oxygenation.
But according to M. Theodore de Saussuref, coloured fruits
part with their oxygen; so that, if this be true, red and yellow

Jcannot always be ascribed to such a cause. M. De Candolle
has some excellent observations upon this subject in his recent
admirable digest of the laws of vegetable physiology ; in which
he concludes, from the inquiries hitherto instituted, that all co
lours depend upon the degree of oxygenation. When oxygen
is in excess, the colour seems to tend to yellow or red ; and
when it is deficient, or when the chromule is more carbonized,
which is the same thing, it has a tendency to blue. Local ad
ditions of alkaline matters are also called in aid of an explanation
of the various shades of colour that flowers and fruits present.

· Memoirct de la Societf Physique de Geneve, vol. iv. p. 50.
t Ibid. vol. i. p. 284.                           \ Phytiologie Vcgitale, p. 906.
56 THIRD REPORT 1833.

Dr. Dutrochet is of opinion * that the whitish spots we some
times see in leaves, and the paler tint that generally character
izes the under side of the same organs, are owing to the presence
of air beneath the cuticle. He finds that the arrow-head shaped
blotch on the upper side of the leaf of Trifolium pratense, and
the whitish spots on Pulmonaria officinalis, disappear when the
leaves are plunged in water beneath the exhausted receiver of
the air-pump, and that the lower surface of leaves acquires the
same depth of colour as the upper under similar circumstances.
This he ascribes to the air naturally found in the leaves being
abstracted, and its place supplied with water; a conclusion
which agrees with what might be inferred from the anatomical
strEuxcctureretioonfs.th--e          in question.
                             parts    long been    known  that  some plants  are

                             It has
incapable of growing, or at least of remaining in a healthy state,
in soil in which the same species has previously been cultivated.
For instance, a new apple orchard cannot be made to succeed
on the site of an old apple orchard, unless some years inter
vene between the destruction of the one and the planting of
the other : in gardens, no quantity of manure will enable one
kind of fruit-tree to flourish on a spot from which another tree
of the same species has been recently removed ; and all farmers
practically evince, by the rotation of their crops, their expe
rience of the existence of this law.
Exhaustion of the soil is evidently not the cause of this, for
abundant manuring will not supersede the necessity of the usual
rotation. The celebrated Duhamel long ago remarked, that the
Elm parts by its roots with an unctuous dark-coloured substance ;
and, according to De Candolle, both Humboldt and Plenck
suspected that some poisonous matter is secreted by roots ;
but it is to M. Macaire, who at the instance of the first of these

three botanists undertook to inquire experimentally into the
subject, that we owe the discovery of the suspicion above al
luded to being well founded. He ascertainedf that all plants
part with a kind of faecal matter by their roots, that the nature
of such excretions varies with species or large natural orders :

in Cichoracece and Papaveracece he found that the matter was
analogous to opium, and in Leguminosce to gum ; in Graminece
it consists of alkaline and earthy alkalies and carbonates, and
in Euphorbiacece of an acrid gum-resinous substance. These
excretions are evidently thrown off by the roots on account of
their presence in the system being deleterious ; and it was found
by experiment, that plants artificially poisoned parted with the

· Annates de* Sciences, vol. xxv. p. 246.

f De Candolle, Physiologie VegUale, p. 249.
   REPORT ON THE PHILOSOPHY OF BOTANY.                                                57

poisonous matter by their roots. For instance, a plant of Mer-
vu r'ui Iis had its roots divided into two parcels, of which one was
immersed in the neck of a bottle filled with a weak solution of
acetate of lead, and the other parcel was plunged into the neck
of a corresponding bottle filled with pure water. In a few days
the pure water had become sensibly impregnated with acetate

of lead. This, coupled with the well known fact that plants,

although they generate poisonous secretions, yet cannot absorb
them by their roots without death, as, for instance, is the case
with Atropa Belladonna, seems to prove that the necessity of
the rotation of crops is more dependent upon the soil being

poisoned than upon its being exhausted.
   This is a part of vegetable physiology of vast importance to
an agricultural country like England, and may possibly cause
   tAotlal lthreavtoMlu.tiMonacianiroeurcsaynstbeme  of husbandry.
a
                                                     said as yet to
                                                                     have  done,  is  to

have discovered  ;  the fact  and  to have pointed   out certain strong
                              the  discovery is to   be converted to a
examples of it      but if

pthraecftoicllaolwlyinugsepfuolintpsur:p--ose, we require positive information upon
   1. The nature of the faecal excretions of every plant culti

vated by the farmer.

   2. The nature of the same excretions of the common weeds
of agriculture.

   3. The degree in which such excretions are poisonous to the
plants that yield them, or to others.
   4. The most ready means of decomposing those excretions

by manures or other means.
   It would be superfluous to point                  out what the          application
would be of such information as this                                       forbear ex
                                                     ; but I cannot
pressing a hope that a question upon which so many deep inter
ests are involved may be among the first to occupy the atten
tion of the chemists of the British Association.
                                       [ 59 J

Report   on the Physiology             Mo.fDth.,e  Nervous System.     By Wil
   liam                                            Physician to the
         Charles Henry,                                              Manchester
Royal Infirmary.

Introduction. -- The science of Physiology has for its object to
ascertain, to analyse, and to classify the qualities and actions
which are peculiar to living bodies. These vital properties re
side exclusively in organized matter, which is characterized by

a molecular arrangement, not producible by ordinary physical
attractions and laws. Matter thus organized consists essen
tially of solids, so disposed into an irregular network of laminae
and filaments, as to                   occupied by fluids of various
natures. ' Texture'   leave spaces     the anatomical term by which
                      or ' tissue' is
such assemblages are distinguished. Of these the cellular, or
tela cellulosa, is most elementary, being the sole constituent of
several, and a partial component of all tissues and systems.
Thus the membranes and vessels consist entirely of condensed
cellular substance ; and even muscle and nerve are resolvable,

by microscopic analysis, into globules deposited in attenuated
cellular element.
But though the phenomena, which are designated as vital,
are never found apart from organization, and have even by
some naturalists been regarded as identical with it, yet in the
order of succession vital actions seem necessarily to stand to
organized structures in the relation of antecedents ; for the
production of even the most rudimentary forms and textures
implies the previous operation of combining tendencies or 'vital
affinities'. The origin and early development of these vital
tendencies, and of organized structures, are beyond the pale of
exact or even of approximative knowledge. But it is matter of
certainty, that life is the product only of life ; that every new
plant or animal proceeds from some pre-existent being of the
same form  apnodet,cha"rQacutearsi      and thus that the image of the
Epicurean                           ;  cursores vitai lampada tradunt,"  great
                                                                          pos
sesses a compass and force of illustration which, as a supporter
of the doctrine of fortuitous production, he could not have him
self contemplated.
The popular notions respecting life are obscure and indeter
minate ; nor are the opinions even of philosophers characterized
                                                                     Like other
by much  greater  '  distinctness or mutual accordance.    by
complex  terms,      life ' can obviously be defined only            an enume
60 THIRD REPORT 1833.

ration of the phenomena which it associates. This enumera
tion will comprehend a greater or a smaller number of particu
lars, according to the station in the scale of living beings which
is occupied by the object of survey. In its simplest manifesta
tion, the principle of life may be resolved into the functions of
nutrition, secretion and absorption. It consists, according to
Cuvier, of the faculty possessed by certain combinations of
matter, of existing for a certain time and under a determinate
form, by attracting unceasingly into their composition a part of
surrounding substances, and by restoring portions of their own
substance to the elements. This definition comprehends all
the essential phenomena of vegetable life. Nutritive matter is
drawn from the soil by the spreading fibres of the root, through
the instrumentality of spongioles or minute turgid bodies at
their extremities, which act, according to Dutrochet, by a power
which he has called 'endosmosis.' The same agency raises the
nutrient fluid through the lymphatic tubes to the leaves, where
it seems to undergo a kind of respiratory process, and becomes
fit for assimilation. These changes, and the subsequent pro
pulsion of the sap to the different parts and textures, plainly
indicate independent fibrillary movements, which are repre
sented in animal life by what Bichat has termed 'the pheno
mena of organic contractility'. The power residing in each
part of detecting in the circulating fluid, and of appropriating,
matters fitted to renovate its specific structure, is designated in
the same system by the term 'organic sensibility'.

    Ascending from the vegetable to the animal kingdom, the
term ' life' advances greatly in comprehensiveness. The exist
ence of a plant is limited to that portion of space in which acci
dent or design has inserted its germ; while animals are for
the most part gifted with the faculties of changing their place,
and of receiving from the external world various impressions.
Along with the general nutritive functions, the higher attri
butes of locomotion and sensation are therefore comprised in
the extended compass of meaning which the term ' life' acquires
with the prefix ' animal'. The nutritive functions, too, emerging
from their original simplicity, are accomplished by a more com
plex mechanism, and by agencies further removed from those
which govern the inanimate world.

   Locomotion is effected either by means of a contractile tissue,
or of distinct muscular fibres. These fibres have been said to
consist of globules resembling, and equal in magnitude to, those
of the blood, disposed in lines, in the elementary cellulosity , which
by an extension of the analogy is compared to serum. But the
latest microscopical observations of Dr. Hodgkin are opposed
REPORT ON THE PHYSIOLOGY OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. 61

to this globular constitution of the contractile fibre. " Innu
merable very minute but clear and fine parallel lines or striae

may be distinctly perceived, transversely marking the fibrillae."
Irritability, or the faculty of contracting on the application of a

stimulant, is a property inherent in the living fibre. It is an
essential element of all vital operations, except of those which
have their seat in the nervous system, such as sensation, voli
tion, the intellectual states, and moral affections. All the phe
nomena of life, in the higher animals, may then be ultimately
resolved  ipnrtoopethretiessi,n--gleirriotarbciloitmybinaendd  action of these two ele
mentary
                                                               nervous influence, each

residing in its appropriate texture and system.
   These preliminary remarks are designed to unfold the prin
ciples to be followed in classifying the vital functions. In ge
neral or comparative physiology, a strictly scientific arrangement
would contemplate first the phenomena of the most elementary
life, and would successively trace the more perfect development
of those simple actions and their gradual transition into more
complex processes, as well as the new functions, superadded

in the ascending scale of endowment. But such a mode of

classification is wholly inapplicable to the particular physiology
of man and of the more perfect animals, viewed by itself and
without reference to inferior orders of beings ; for the nutri
tive functions of this class, which correspond with the elemen
tary actions of the simplest vegetable life, are effected by a
           system of vessels and    surfaces, deriving         their vital
complex   from contractile fibres,                             not wholly
powers                              and controlled, if
governed, by nervous influence. It is then manifest, that in
the higher physiology the general laws of contractility and ' in
nervation' must precede the description of the several functions,
which all depend on their single or united agency. The parti
cular functions will afterwards be classed, as they stand in more
immediate relation to one or other of the two essential princi
ples of life.
In the present state of physiological knowledge, it is impos
sible to determine absolutely, and without an opening to con
Iftroversy, whether the functions of muscle or those of nerve are
entitled to precedency.  each were equally independent of
the other in the performance of their several offices, the question
of priority would   resolve itself into one of simple
The actions of the                                             convenience.
                    nervous system, if contemplated            for the short
interval of time during which they are capable of persisting
without renovation of tissue, are entirely independent of the
contractile fibre. But it is certain that the cooperation of
nerve is required in most, if not in all, the actions of the mus
62 THIRD KEPORT 1833.

cular system. Thus the voluntary muscles in all their natural
and sympathetic contractions receive the stimulant impulse of
volition through the medium of nerve ; and though the mode,
in which the motive impression is communicated to the invo
luntary muscles, is still matter of controversy, there seems suffi
       evidence* to sanction the conclusion               nerve is in this
cient  also the channel of transmission ; --  "ththaat t   the immediate
case
antecedent of the contraction of the muscular fibre is univer

Ifsally a change in the ultimate nervous filament distributed to
that fibre."  this be correct, the physiological history of

muscle cannot be rendered complete without reference to that
of nerve.
   In the higher manifestations of life, nervous matter is in
vested with the most eminently vital attributes. It is the ex
clusive seat of the various modes of sensation, and of all the
intellectual operations ; or, rather, it is the point of transition,
where the physical conditions of the organs, which are induced
by external objects, pass into states of mind, becoming per
ceptions ; and where the mental act of volition first impresses
a change on living matter. These two offices of conducting
motive impressions from the central seat of the will to the mus
cles, and of propagating sensations from the surface of the body
and the external organs of sense to the sensorium commune,
have been of late years shown to reside in distinct portions of

nervous substance.

   The honour of this discovery, doubtless the most important
accession to physiological knowledge since the time of Harvey,
belongs exclusively to Sir Charles Bell. It constitutes, more
over, only a part of the new truths, which his researches have
unveiled, regarding the general laws of nervous action, and the
offices of individual nerves. His successive experiments on
function, guided always by strong anatomical analogies in struc
ture, in origin, or in distribution, have led to the entire remo
delling of nervous physiology, and to the formation of a system
of arrangement, based on essential affinities and on parity of
intimate composition, instead of on apparent sequence or prox
imity of origin. Among the continental anatomists, MM. Ma-

            and Flourens have contributed most largely to our
geknnodwieledge of this part of physiology ; the former by repeating
and confirming the experiments of Bell, as well as by various
original inquiries ; the latter by his important researches into
the vital offices of the brain and its appendages. Much light,

   · See " A Critical and Experimental Enquiry into the Relations subsisting
between Nerve and Muscle," in the 37th vol. of the Edinburgh Medical and
Surgical Journal.
REPORT ON THE PHYSIOLOGY OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. 63

too, has been thrown on the functions of several of the ence
phalic nerves, and especially of those supplying the face and
its connected cavities, by Mr. Herbert Mayo, who has analysed
their anatomical composition, and pursued their course with
singular precision, and has thus been enabled to correct some
errors of detail in                     of Sir
   Nervous System.   t--heInsymstaenm,  and in  Charles Bell.      animals,
                                                other vertebrated
the nervous system consists of the cerebrum, cerebellum, me
dulla oblongata, medulla spinalis, and of the encephalic, spinal,
and ganglionic nerves. It seems most natural to observe this
order of anatomical sequence in recording what is known of
nervous functions.

   Cerebrum, or Brain-proper.--TThe physiology of the brain
has received of late years very considerable accessions, and its
vital offices, viewed as an entire organ, have now probably been
ascertained with sufficient precision. Some portion of this newly
acquired knowledge has been gathered from experiments on
living animals, but the greater and more valuable part has
flowed from the study of comparative development. In this
latter field of inquiry, Tiedemann's elaborate history of the pro
gressive evolution of the human brain during the period of
foetal existence, with reference to the comparative structure of
that organ in the lower animals, merits an early and detailed

notice. It had been discovered by Harvey, that the foetus in
the human species, as well as in inferior animals, is not a pre
cise facsimile of the adult, but that it commences from a form

infinitely more simple, and passes through several successive
stages of organization before reaching its perfect development.
In the circulatory system, these changes have been minutely
observed and faithfully recorded*. Tiedemann has traced a
similar progression in the brain and nervous system, and has

moreover established an exact parallel between the temporary
states of the foetal brain in the periods of advancing gestation,
and the permanent development of that organ at successive
points of the animal scale. The first part of his work is simply
descriptive of the nervous system of the embryo at each suc

cessive month of foetal life. It constitutes the anatomical ground
work upon which are raised the general laws of cerebral forma
tion, and the higher philosophy of the science. In the second
part, Tiedemann has established, by examples drawn from all
the grand divisions of the animal kingdom, the universality of
the law of formation, as traced in the nervous system of the

   · See an excellent Essay on the Development of the Vascular System in the
Foetus of Vertebrated Animals, by Dr. Allen Thomson.
64 THIRD REPORT 1833.

human foetus, and the existence of one and the same funda
mental type in the brain of man and of the inferior animals.
The facts which have been unfolded by the industry of Tiede-
mann, besides leading to the universal law of nervous develop
ment, throw important light upon nervous function : for it is
observed that the successive increments of nervous matter, and
especially of brain, mark successive advances in the scale of
being ; and, in general, that the development of the higher in
stincts and faculties keeps pace with that of brain. Thus, in
the zoophyta, and in all living beings destitute of nerves, no
thing that resembles an instinct or voluntary act is discovera
ble. In fishes the hemispheres of the brain are small, and
marked with few furrows or eminences. In birds they are
much more voluminous, more raised and vaulted than in rep
tiles ; yet no convolutions or anfractuosities can be perceived
on any point of their surface, nor are they divided into lobes.
The brain of the mammalia approaches by successive steps to
that of man. That of the rodentia is at the lowest point of
organization. Thus the hemispheres in the mouse, rat, and
squirrel are smooth and without convolutions. In the carnivo
rous and ruminating tribes, the hemispheres are much larger
and marked by numerous convolutions. In the ape tribe the
brain is still more capacious and more convex ; it covers the

cerebellum, and is divided into anterior, middle, and posterior

lobes. It is in man that the brain attains its greatest magni

tude and most elaborate organization. Sbmmerring has proved
that the volume of the brain, referred to that of the spinal mar
row as a standard of comparison, is greater in man than in any
other animal.

Various attempts have been made of late years, chiefly
by the French physiologists, to ascertain the functions of the
brain by actual experiment. It will appear from a detailed
survey of their labours, that little more than a few general
                       function of
facts  respecting the               ittshliasrgmeordemaosfsersesaenadrchg.reatTnhae
tural  divisions have  flowed from
offices of the smaller parts of cerebral substance cannot with

any certainty be derived from the phenomena that have been
hitherto observed to follow the removal of those parts, since
the most practised vivisectors have obtained conflicting results.
Nor is it difficult, after having performed or witnessed such
experiments, to point out many unavoidable sources of fallacy.
In operations on living animals, and especially on so delicate
an organ as the brain, it is scarcely possible for the most skilful
manipulator to preserve exact anatomical boundaries, to restrain
haemorrhage, or prevent the extension to contiguous parts, of
     REPORT ON THE PHYSK1LOGY OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. 65

the morbid actions consequent upon such serious injuries, and

to distinguish the secondary and varying phenomena, induced
by the pressure of extravasated blood, or the spread of an in
flammatory process, from those which are essential and pri
mary. The ablation                  of
of brain must, then,                    cslmasaslel danadmcoonmg ptlheetel"y  aignesnudlaate"dofpeoxrtpioenris
                                   be

mental physiology.
     The most decisive researches, that have been hitherto insti
tuted on the functions of the brain, are those of M. Flourens.
His mode of operating was to remove cautiously successive thin
slices of cerebral matter, and to note the corresponding changes
of function. He commenced with the hemispheres of the brain,
which he found might be thus cut away, including the corpora
striata and thalami optici, without apparently occasioning any
pain to the animal, and without exciting convulsive motions.
Entire removal of the cerebrum induces a state resembling coma ;
the animal appears plunged in a profound sleep, being wholly
lost to external impressions, and incapable of originating mo
tion ; it is deprived, too, according to Flourens, of every mode

of sensation. Hence the cerebrum is inferred to be the organ in
which reside the faculties of perception, volition and memory.
wTsahotoirodun,g,----h thynaeottt   itself sensible, in the ordinary acceptation of
                                   is, capable, on contact or injury, of propagating   the
                                    it is the point where impressions made on the     sen
                                                                                       ex
ternal organs of sense become objects of perception. This ab
sence of general sensibility observed in the brain has also been
experimentally demonstrated in the nerves dedicated to the func
tions of sight, of smell and of hearing, and constitutes, perhaps,
one of the most remarkable phenomena that have been disclosed
by interrogating living nature. Flourens appears, however, to
have failed in proving that all the sensations demand for their
perception the integrity of the brain. He has himself stated
t"hhaatsantheanaimiralofdaewparkiveendingoffrtohmat           when violently struck,
                                                      organ,
                                                     sleep,"  and that if pushed for
wards, it continues to advance after the impelling force must
have been wholly expended. Cuvier has therefore concluded,
in his Report to the Academy of Sciences upon M. Flourens'
paper, that the cerebral lobes are the receptacle in which the
impressions made on the organs of sight and hearing only, be

come perceptible by the animal, and that probably there too
all                                 assume a distinct form,                   durable im-
     the  sen--sattihoants         the lobes are, in short,   and leave       of memory,
                                                              the abode
?r"ehsesiloobness, , too, would seem to be the part in which those mo
tions which flow from spontaneous acts of the mind have their
forigin. But a power of effecting regular and combined move-
    1833.
66 THIRD REPORT -- 1833.

ments, on external stimulation, evidently survives the destruc
tion of the cerebral hemispheres.

  A very elaborate series of experiments on the functions of

the brain in general, and especially on those of its anterior por
tion, have been since performed by M. Bouillaud*. That ob
server concurs with Flourens in viewing the cerebral lobes as
the seat of the remembrance of those sensations which are fur
nished to us by sight and hearing, as well as of all the intel
lectual operations to which these sensations may be subjected,
such as comparison, judgment and reasoning. But he proves
that the ordinary tactual sensibility does not require for its
manifestation the presence of the brain. For animals entirely
deprived of brain were awakened by being struck, and gave

evident indications of suffering when exposed to any cause of
physical pain. Bouillaud observes, too, that the iris continues
           to the stimulus of light, after ablation  of the    hemi
obedient  and on this ground calls in question the   loss of   vision
spheres,
asserted by Flourens. Nor are the lobes (he contends,) the
only receptacle of intelligence, of instincts and of volition : for
to admit this proposition of Flourens would be to grant that an
animal which retains the power of locomotion, which makes
every effort to escape from irritation, which preserves its appro

priate attitude, and executes the same movements after as be
fore mutilation, may perform all those actions without the agency
of the will or of instinct.  Another  bdyocBtroinueillaoufdF, loius,re"nst,hawt htichhe
                             refuted
has been experimentally
cerebral lobes concur as a whole in the full and entire exercise
of their functions ; that when one sense is lost, all are lost ;

when one faculty disappears, all disappear ;" in short, that a
certain amount of cerebral matter may be cut away without ap
parent injury, but that when this limit is passed, all voluntary
acts and all perceptions perish simultaneously. Bouillaud, on
the contrary, has described several experiments which show
that animals, from whom the anterior or frontal part of the brain
had been removed, preserved sight and hearing, though de
prived of the knowledge of external objects, and of the power
of seeking their food.

   The second part of M. Bouillaud's researches is entirely de
voted to the functions of the anterior lobes of the brain. These

were either removed by the scalpel, or destroyed by the actual
cautery, in dogs, rabbits and pigeons. Animals thus mutilated

feel, see, hear and smell ; are easily alarmed, and execute a
number of voluntary acts, but cease to recognise the persons

          · Magendie, Journal de Physinlogie, torn. x. p. 36.
REPORT ON THE PHYSIOLOGY OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. 67

or objects which surround them. They no longer seek food,
or perform any action announcing a combination of ideas. Thus
the most docile and intelligent dogs lost all power of compre
hending signs or words which were before familiar to them,
became indifferent to menaces or caresses, were no longer
                                                       of places,
amenable to authority, and  retained no remembrance
                                                       presented
of things, or of persons.   They saw distinctly food
to them, but had ceased to associate with its external qualities
all perception of its relations to themselves as an object of de
sire. The anterior or frontal part of the brain is hence inferred
to be the seat of several intellectual faculties. Its removal oc
casions a state resembling idiotism, characterized by loss of the
power of discriminating external objects, which, however, co
exists with the faculties of sensation.

  It will be unnecessary to describe fully in this place the ex
periments of Professor Rolando of Turin, performed in 1809, and
published in Magendie's Journal, torn, iii., 1823, since the more
important of his facts have reference, not to the brain-proper,
but to the cerebellum. His paper certainly contains some cu
rious anticipations of phenomena, since more accurately ob
served by Flourens and Magendie ; yet as regards the brain,
properly so called, his results are vague and inconclusive.
Accident, rather than a well matured design, seems to have
directed what parts of the brain he should remove ; and from
having comprehended in the same injury totally distinct anato
mical divisions, he has rendered it impossible to arrive at the
precise function of any one part. Thus we are told that injury
of the thalami optici and tubercula quadrigemina in a dog was
followed by violent muscular contractions. Now all subsequent
experimenters agree, that irritation of the thalami is incapable
of inducing convulsive motions           Ftulobuerrecnusla,h--asapnroimvepdortthaantt
                                 ; and
this property has its beginning  in the

fact, which Rolando, with a little more precision in anatomical
manipulation, could scarcely have failed to discover.
Magendie has described* some curious experiments on the
corpora striata, which, though closely analogous in their results
to those on the cerebellum, have their proper place in this
section. Removal of one corpus striatum was followed by no
remarkable change ; but when both had been cut away, the
animal rushed violently forwards, never deviating from a recti
linear course, and striking against any objects in its way. In his
lecture of February 7, 1828, Magendie, in the presence of his
class, removed both corpora striata from a rabbit. The animal

· Journal de Physiohgit, torn. iii. p. 376.

                    F2
G8 THIRD REPORT 1833.

attempted to rush forwards, and, if restrained, appeared rest
less, continuing in the attitude of incipient progression. One
thalamus opticus was then cut away from the same animal. The
direction of its motion was immediately changed from a straight
to a curved line. It continued for some time to run round in
circles, turning towards the injured side. When the other

thalamus was removed, the animal ceased its motions and re

mained perfectly tranquil, with the head inclined backwards.
These experiments,   it may   be observed, furnish no support to
                     Foville  and Pinel Grandchamps, who have
the opinions of MM.
assigned the anterior lobes and corpora striata as the parts
presiding over the movements of the inferior extremities, and

the posterior lobes and thalami as regulating the superior.

   Cerebellum. -- It may be regarded as nearly established by
modern researches, that the cerebellum is more or less directly
connected with the function of locomotion. The precise nature
and extent of its control over the actions of the voluntary
muscles are, however, far from being clearly determined. In
the higher animals, the mental act of volition probably has its
commencing point, as productive of a physical change, in the
brain-proper ; though it must be confessed that some of the
experiments of Flourens, and all of those of Bouillaud, indicate
the persistence of many instinctive, and even of some automatic
motions, after destruction of the brain. But there does appear
sufficient evidence to prove that those volitions which have
motion as their effect, whatever be their origin, whether in the
cerebrum, cerebellum, or medulla oblongata*, require for their
accomplishment the cooperation of the cerebellum. This evi

dence has been mainly supplied by the same inquirers whose

researches on the cerebrum have been already analysed.

   In the order of time, though not of importance, the experi
ments of Professor Rolando stand foremost. Injuries of the
cerebellum, he observed, were always followed by diminished
motive power ; and this partial loss of power was always in

direct proportion to the amount of injury. A turtle survived
upwards of two months the entire removal of the cerebellum,

continuing sensible to the slightest stimulus ; but when irritants
were applied, it was totally unable to move from its place.
M. Flourens has since arrived at similar, but more definitive
results. He removed in succession thin slices from the cere
bellum. After the first two layers had been cut away, a slight
weakness and want of harmony and system in the automatic
movements were noticed. When more cerebellic substance had

· Flourens, Memoires de VAcademie, lorn. ix.
REPORT ON THE PHYSIOLOGY OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. 69

been removed, great general agitation became apparent. The
pigeon which was the subject of operation retained, as at first,
the senses of sight and hearing, but was capable of executing
only irregular unconnected muscular efforts. It lost by degrees
the power of flying, of walking, and even of standing. Removal
of the whole cerebellum     was followed
ance of motive power.                      by the entire  disappear
                           The animal, if  laid upon its  back, tried
in vain to turn round ; it perceived and was apprehensive of
blows, with which it was menaced, heard sounds, seemed aware
o--f indasnhgoerrt,,
                      and made attempts     to escape, though ineffectually,
                      while it preserved,  uninjured, sensation and the ex
ercise of volition, it had lost all power of rendering its muscles
obedient                   winivlle.stedThewitcherethbeelluomfficeisohf e"ncbealasnucpinpgo,sedregbuy
Flourens  to          the
          to          be

lating or combining separate sets of muscles and limbs, so as
to bring about those complex movements depending on simul
taneous and conspiring efforts of many muscles, which are ne
cessary to the different kinds of progressive motion." Bouil-
laud, who has successfully disputed several of the opinions of
Flourens respecting the functions of the cerebrum, fully concurs
with him as to those of the cerebellum.
Yet, it must be admitted, that there exists also conflicting
experimental testimony on this subject. M. Fodera* states
that he has found the removal of a part of the cerebellum to
be followed, in all cases, either by motion backwards, or by
that position of the body which precedes retrograde movement.
The head is thrown back, the hind legs separated, and the
fore legs extended forwards, and pressed firmly against the
ground. More complete destruction of the cerebellum occa
sions the animal to fall on its side ; but the head is still inclined

rigidly backwards, and the anterior extremities agitated with
convulsive movements, tending to cause retrograde motion of
the body. Injuries of one side of the cerebellum were observed
to produce paralysis of the same side of the body ; as might,
indeed, have been anticipated from the direct course, without
decussation, of the restiform columns which ascend to form the

fcerebellum. Magendie has described precisely the same re

sults. A duck, whose cerebellum had been destroyed, could
swim only backwards. In the course of his experimental lec
tures, Magendie, having removed the cerebellum in several rab
bits, demonstrated         to his class                   byofForedterroag.radIet
movement, exactly          as they have    the phenomena
                                           been recorded
then, impossible to regard the conclusions of Flourens as
is,

     *
                                                                                                          +
                                                                                                                         p.
Journal de Physique, July 1823.            Ibid. torn. iii. 157.
70 THIRD REPORT 1833.

fully established, opposed as they are by those of so skilful an
experimenter as Magendie. Indeed, while Flourens conceives

the cerebellum to preside over motion, MM. Foville and Pinel
Grandchamps attribute to it the directly opposite function of
sensation : and this doctrine seems to derive some support from

anatomical disposition ; for it has been proved by Tiedemann
that the cerebellum is nothing more than an expansion or pro

longation of the corpora restiformia, and posterior columns of
the spinal medulla, which columns have been shown by Sir
Charles Bell to have the office of conveying sensations. But
it is not the less true that all recent experiments, even those of
Fodera and Magendie, point to some connexion between the
cerebellum and the power of voluntary motion. In the present
state of our knowledge it would be unsafe to contend for more
than the probable existence of some such general relation.
This, then, is all that seems deserving of confidence respect
ing the functions of the cerebellum itself. But there are some
singular phenomena which, though residing in other structures
more or less near to the cerebellum, are so analogous to those
already described as to call for notice in this place. Magendie
has described* the results of injury to the crura cerebelli of a
rabbit. Complete division of the right crus was followed by
rapid and incessant rotation of the body upon its own axis, from
left to right. This singular motion having continued two hours,
Magendie placed the rabbit in a basket containing hay. On
visiting it the following day he was surprised to find the animal
still turning round as before, and completely enveloped in hay.
The eyes were rigidly fixed in different lines ; that of the injured
Ifside being directed forwards and downwards, that of the other
side backwards and upwards.  both crura were divided, no

motion followed. Magendie hence concluded that these ner
vous cords are the conductors of impulsive forces which coun
terbalance one another, and that from the equilibrium of these
two forces result the power of standing, and even of maintaining
a state of rest, and of executing the different voluntary motions.
The inquiry naturally presented itself, whether these forces
are inherent in the crura themselves, or emanate from the cere

bellum or some other source. To determine this question,
portions of substance were removed from both sides of the

\cerebellum, but unequally, so as to leave intact on the left
\side and only on the right. The animal rolled towards the
right side, and its eyes were fixed in the manner already de
scribed. But the left crus being divided, the animal rolled to

* Journal de Physiologic, torn. iv. 399.
REPORT ON THE PHYSIOLOGY OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. 71

the left side. Hence it appears that section of the crns has
more influence over the lateral rotation of the body than injury
of the cerebellum itself; and that the impulsive force does not

belong (at least exclusively) to the cerebellum. When the cere
bellum was divided precisely in the median line, the animal

seemed   suspended between     tiwfoaboopuptositnog   forces,   sometimes in
clining  towards one side, as                        fall, and  again thrown

suddenly back to the opposite side. Its eyes were singularly
agitated, and seemed about to start from the orbits. Similar
movements followed division of the continuous fibres in the
pons Varolii. Serres has described a case            of
motion occurring in the human subject.                   similar rotatory
                                                     A    shoemaker ha

bituated to excess in alcoholic liquors, after great intemperance
was seized with an irresistible disposition to turn round upon
his own axis, and continued to move so till death ensued. On
inspecting the brain, one of the crura cerebelli was found much
diseased, and this was the only alteration of structure visible
in any part of the nervous system.

   M. Flourens has published in a recent volume of the Me"-
moires de VAcad4mie des Sciences* a description of some
striking abnormal motions which followed the division of the
semicircular canals of the ears of birds. Though these organs
have no anatomical relation to the cerebrum or cerebellum, the

altered motions resulting from their division are so analogous
to those observed by Magendie after lesions of the corpora
striata and crura, that they may be most conveniently described
in the same section. Two of the semicircular canals are ver
tical, and one horizontal. Division of the horizontal canals on
each side occasioned a rapid horizontal movement of the head
from right to left, and back again, and loss of the power of
maintaining an equilibrium, except when standing, or when
perfectly motionless. There was also the same singular rota
tion of the animal round its own axis which follows injury of
the crura cerebelli. Section of the inferior vertical canal on
both sides produced violent vertical movements of the head,
with loss of equilibrium in walking or flying. There was in this
case no rotation of the body upon itself, but the bird fell back
wards, and remained lying on its back. When the superior
vertical canals were divided, the same phenomena were ob
served as in section of the inferior, except that the bird fell

forward on its head, instead of backward. All the canals, both
vertical and horizontal, having been divided, in another pigeon,
violent and irregular motions in all directions ensued. When,

         · torn. ix. p. 454.
72 THIRD REPORT 1883.

however, the bony canals were so cautiously divided as to leave
their internal membranous investment uninjured, these ab

normal motions were not produced. It is, therefore, in these
membranes, or rather in the expansion of the acoustic nerve
which overspreads them, that the cause of this phenomenon
must reside. No explanation is proposed by Flourens of the
control thus exercised by a nerve supposed to minister exclu
               senItseisofrehmeaarrkinagb,le
sively to the                                 over actions so entirely opposite
in character.                                   that the irregular movements

should observe the same direction in their course as the canals,
by the section of which they are induced. Thus the direction
of the inferior vertical canal is posterior, that of the superior
is anterior, corresponding perfectly with the directions of the

abnormal motions.

   Medulla Oblongata. --The medulla oblongata, or "bulbe
rachidien," is reducible into six columns, or three pairs, viz.
two anterior or pyramidal, which partially decussate, two mid
dle or olivary, and two posterior or restiform, which proceed

forwards without crossing. It is continuous in structure with the
spinal marrow, and enjoys, by virtue of this relation, the same
function of propagating motion and sensation. But it is distin
guished from the spinal medulla by special and higher attributes,
being endowed with the faculty of originating motions, as well
as with that of regulating and conducting them. The medulla
oblongata, with the cerebrum and cerebellum, constitute, in short,
according to Flourens *, those portions of the nervous system
which exercise their functions "spontaneously or primordial-
ly," and which originate and preside over the vital actions of
the subordinate parts. To this latter order of parts, which re
quire an exciting or regulating influence, belongs the spinal
medulla. In the superior class, Flourens seems to assign even

a higher place to the medulla oblongata than to the cerebrum
or cerebellum. For the cerebrum, he observes, may act without
the cerebellum; and this latter organ continues to regulate the
motions of the body after removal of the cerebrum. But the
functions of neither cerebrum nor cerebellum survive the destruc
tion of the medulla oblongata, which seems to be the common
bond and central knot combining all the individual parts of the
nervous system into one whole.
The medulla oblongata was regarded by Legallois as the
mainspring or "premier mobile" of the inspiratory movements.
He repeated before a Commission of the Institute of France the
         experiments on which his opinion rested f. In a rabbit
leading  I· Mimoircs de 'Academic dcs Sciences, torn. ix. p. 478.

          + (Euvrei de Legallois, torn. i. p. 247.
REPORT ON THE PHYSIOLOGY OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. 73

five or six days old, the larynx was detached from the os hy-
oides and the glottis exposed to view. The brain and cere
bellum were then extracted without arresting the inspirations,
which were marked by four simultaneous motions,-- a gaping of
the lips, an opening of the glottis, the elevation of the ribs,
and the contraction of the diaphragm. Legallois next removed
the medulla oblongata, when all these motions ceased together.

In a second rabbit, instead of extracting at once the entire me
dulla, it was cut away in successive thin slices. The four in
spiratory movements continued after the removal of the three
first slices, but ceased after the fourth. It was found that the
fourth had reached the origin of the eighth pair of nerves. If,
instead of destroying the part in which this motive influence
resides, it be simply prevented from communicating with the
muscles which are subservient to inspiration, a similar effect
ought to be produced. Now it is obvious that the medulla
oblongata must transmit its influence to the muscles which
raise the ribs, through the medium of the intercostal nerves,
and therefore of the spinal marrow, and to the diaphragm

through the phrenic nerves, and to these through the spinal
marrow. In another rabbit, therefore, the medulla spinalis was
cut across about the level of the seventh cervical vertebra.
The effect of this operation was to arrest  the elevation of the
ribs, the other three inspiratory motions
                                            still continuing. A
second section was made near the first cervical vertebra, and
consequently above the origin of the phrenic, with the effect of
suspending the contraction of the diaphragm. The par vagum
was next divided in the neck, and the opening of the glottis
ceased. There remained then, of the four inspiratory move
ments, only the gaping of the lips, which, however, was suffi
cient to attest that the medulla oblongata still retained the
power of producing them all. This power had ceased to call
forth the other three motions, only because it no longer had
communication with their organs.

   M. Flourens, in a recent memoir already referred to*, has
confirmed and extended the views first announced by Legal
lois. He has distinctly traced the comparative action of the
medulla spinalis and oblongata, on respiration, in the four classes

of vertebrated animals. In birds, he found that all the lumbar

and the posterior dorsal medulla might be destroyed without
impeding the respiratory function, though it was arrested by
removal of the costal medulla. In the mammalia the costal also

· Mimoircs dc I' Academic, torn. ix. 1830.
74 THIRD REPORT -- 1833.

might be removed, for though the raising of the ribs ceased,
the action of the diaphragm continued as long as the origin of
the phrenic nerve remained uninjured. In frogs, all the spinal
                                                                              whence spring           the
medulla   may be destroyed, except the portion,                                                       the
nerves    supplying the hyoideal apparatus.                                   Every part of

spinal marrow may be removed in fishes without affecting re
              for all the nerves distributed to the                           respiratory  organs
spiration  ;  have their origin in the medulla                                 oblongata.
of fishes                                                                                     It is

hence apparent that the spinal marrow exercises only a variable
and relative action on the respiratory function, in the different
classes of vertebrated animals. In descending from the higher

to the lower points of this scale, the spinal marrow is seen pro
gressively to disengage itself from cooperation in these move
ments, while the medulla oblongata tends more and more to
concentrate them in itself, till in fishes the proper functions of
the two medulla? show themselves completely distinct, the spinal
ministering to locomotion and sensation, and the oblongata to re
spiration. The medulla oblongata is, then, the "premier mo-
teur" or the exciting and regulating principle of the inspiratory
movements in all classes of vertebrated animals; besides par
ticipating, by virtue of its continuity with the spinal marrow, in
the proper functions of that organ. From a second series of
experiments, M. Flourens concludes that there exists a point
in the nervous centres at which the section of those centres
produces the sudden annihilation of all the inspiratory move
ments ; and that this point corresponds with the origin of the
          pair of                                                              above, and ending
eighth             ntheravteso,ricgoinm,m--eancriensgulitmpmreedciiasteellyy  agreeing with that
a little  below,

obtained      bMyaLrreogwal.lo--isI.t  is  apparent,  that the functions of the
   Spinal
three grand divisions of the nervous system, already described,
have not yet been distinctly and fully ascertained. Our know
ledge of those,    which next fall under                                      more definite
                      The vital offices of            survey, is              medulla --re
and substantial.                                      the spinal
                                             hmeaarint sapnrdingnoobflelirfeo, ragnadns,as--aalorene
garded by Legallois   as                the                                                             re
gulating the actions                   the                                                            now
                      of
reduced to conveying to the muscles the motive impulse of voli
tion, and to propagating to the sensorium commune, impressions
made on the external senses. It is not invested with the power

possessed by the cerebrum and cerebellum, and perhaps by the
medulla oblongata,    of               spontaneously originating muscular mo
                                       not exclusively, a conductor; a medium
tions. It is mainly,  if
of communication between the brain and the external instru
ments of locomotion and sensation. Flourens, indeed, conjee
REPORT ON THE PHYSIOLOGY OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. 75

tures that it also has the office of associating the partial con
tractions of individual muscles into "mouvemens d'ensemble,"

necessary to the regular motions of the limbs.
   Before recording what is known of the spinal cord itself, it
will be proper to advert to some recent experiments of Magen-
die on the serous fluid in which it is immersed. It would
appear that a quantity of liquid, varying from two to five
ounces in the human subject, is always interposed between
the arachnoid tunic and the pia mater, or proper membrane of
the cord. The intermembranous bag, occupied by this fluid,
communicates with the ventricular cavities at the calamus scrip-
torius by a round aperture, often large and patent in hydroce

phalic   subjects. Magendie has therefore        named this serous
liquid  ' cerebro-spinal '. In living animals,  it issues in a stream

from a puncture of the arachnoid. Its removal occasions great
nervous agitation, and symptoms resembling those of canine
madness. The sudden increase of its quantity induces coma.
Its presence seems essential to the undisturbed and natural ex
ercise of the nervous functions; and this influence probably is
dependent upon its pressure, temperature and chemical con
stitution, since any variation of these conditions is followed by
the phenomena of nervous disorder.
The great medullary cord is divided by a double furrow into
two lateral halves ; and each of these is again subdivided by the
insertions of the ligamenta dentata into two columns, one pos
terior and one anterior. It has been long known that section
of any part of the spinal marrow excludes from intercourse with
the brain all those parts of the body, which derive their nerves
from the cylinder of medulla below the point of injury. The
muscles, so supplied, are no longer obedient to the control of
the will, and the tegumentary membranes similarly situated en
tirely lose their sensibility. This interruption of the relations
which subsist between the central seat of volition and sensation,
and the rest of the body, whether due to direct injury of the
great nervous masses or communicating nerves, or produced by
the pressure of extravasated fluids, by morbid growths, or by
various poisonous matters, constitutes the condition known by
the name ' paralysis'. In cases of this kind it is frequently ob
served that the powers of sensation and locomotion are simulta
neously impaired or destroyed. But examples are not want
ing, even in the earliest clinical records, of the total loss of one
of those faculties with perfect integrity of the other. Such facts
naturally suggested the belief that the power of propagating
sensations, and that of conveying motive impressions, resided
in distinct portions of the nervous system. This opinion, how
76 THIRD REPORT -- 1833.

ever, remained mere matter of conjecture until a recent period,
when it was unequivocally established by Sir Charles Bell.
From the original experiments of that most distinguished phy
siologist, repeated and confirmed by Magendie, it follows that
the faculty of conducting sensations resides exclusively in the
two posterior columns of the medulla, while that of communica
ting to the muscular system the motive stimulus impressed by
volition is the attribute of the two anterior columns. The same
limitation of function is found in the nervous roots which spring
from these separate columns. Thus each spinal nerve is fur
nished with a double series of roots, one set of which have their
origin in the anterior medullary column, and one in the pos
terior. The spinal nerves are, in consequence of this anatomi
cal composition, nerves of twofold function, containing in the
same sheath distinct continuous filaments from both columns,
and exercising, in the parts to which they are distributed, the
double office of conductors of motion and sensation. It will
afterwards appear, in our history of individual nerves, that all
those which spring from the brain, except the fifth and eighth
pairs, possess only a single function.

   Sufficient experimental proof of the foregoing propositions
has been furnished by Sir Charles Bell and by M. Magendie.
Thus, division of the posterior roots of the spinal nerves is uni
formly followed by total absence of feeling in the parts of the
body to which the injured nerves are distributed, while their
motive power remains undiminished. Magendie has further

observed, that if the medullary canal be laid open, and the two

posterior cords be touched or pricked slightly, there is instant

expression of intense suffering ; whereas, if the same or a greater

amount of irritation be applied to the anterior columns, there
are scarcely any signs of excited sensibility. The central parts
of the medulla seem also nearly impassable *. They may be
touched, and even lacerated, according to Magendie, without

exciting pain, if precautions are taken to avoid the surrounding

medullary substance. In general, the properties of the spinal
marrow, and especially its sensibility, seem to reside mainly on
its surface ; for slight contact, even of the vascular membranes
covering the posterior columns, caused acute pain.

   The first experiment of Sir C. Bell consisted in laying open
the spinal canal of a living rabbit, and dividing the posterior
roots of the nerves that supply the lower limbs. The animal
was able to crawl. In his second trial he first stunned the
rabbit, and then exposed the spinal marrow. On irritating the

                  · Annulet de Chimie et de Physique, torn, xxiii, p. 436.
     REPORT ON THE PHYSIOLOGY OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. Tl

posterior roots, no motion was induced in any part of the mus
cular frame ; but on grasping the anterior roots, each touch of
the forceps was followed by a corresponding contraction of the
muscles supplied by the irritated nerve. Magendie has de
scribed* the following experiments, which he has since declared
were made without any knowledge of the prior ones of Sir C.
Bell. The subjects chosen for the operation were puppies
about six weeks old; for in these it was easy to cut with a sharp
scalpel through the vertebrae and to expose the medulla. In the
first, the posterior roots of the lumbar and sacral nerves were
divided, and the wound closed: violent pressure, and even prick
ing with a sharp instrument, awakened no sensation in the limb
supplied by the nerves which had been cut ; but its motive power

was uninjured. A second and a third trial gave the same re

sults. Magendie then divided in another animal, though with
some difficulty, the anterior roots of the same nerves on one
side. The hind limb became flaccid and entirely motionless,
though it preserved its sensibility. Both the anterior and pos
terior roots were cut in the same subject with destruction of
motion and sensation. In a second paperf Magendie has re
lated the following additional facts. T he introduction of nux
vomica into the animal economy is well known to give rise to
violent tetanic convulsions of the whole muscular system. This
property was made available as a test of the functions of the

separate orders of nervous roots. It was found that, while all
 the other muscles of the body were agitated, when under the
influence of this poison, by violent spasmodic contractions, the

 limb, supplied by nerves whose anterior roots had been pre
 viously divided, remained supple and motionless. But when
 the posterior roots only had been cut, the tetanic spasms were

 universal. It would seem, however, that the seats of the two
 faculties of conducting motion and sensation are not strictly

 insulated by exact anatomical lines, but that they rather pass
 into each other with rapidly decreasing intensity. Thus irri
 tation of the anterior roots, when connected with the medulla,
 gives birth, along with motive phenomena, to some evidences
 of sensibility; and, vice versa, stimuli applied to the posterior
 roots, also undivided, occasion slight muscular contractions.
 In this last case it is, indeed, probable that the irritation tra
 velled from the posterior roots upwards to the brain in the ac
 customed channel, and gave rise to a perception of pain, which
 prompted the muscular effort. Indeed, after division of the
 posterior nervous roots, ordinary stimulants, applied to the

· Journal de Phytiologie, torn. ii. p. 276. August 1822. t Ibid. torn.  ii.     366.
                                                                            p.
78 THIRD REPORT -- 1833.

ends not connected with the medulla, produced no apparent
effects ; though the galvanic fluid directed upon either order
of roots gave rise to muscular contractions. These were more
complete and energetic when the anterior roots were the sub
jects of the experiment.

    Besides the evidence thus obtained by direct experiments on

living animals, several important facts have been gathered from
the pathology of the nervous system in man. These consist of
cases of insulated paralysis of either motion or feeling, referred
to the changes in structure observed after death. Sir Charles
Bell has himself recorded several examples of this kind strongly
confirming his experimental results ; and others of similar ten
dency are scattered through the successive volumes of Magen-
die's Journal*. But it must be admitted, that evidence of this
kind is seldom distinct and conclusive. The structural changes,
induced by disease, are rarely so circumscribed in seat and
extent as to represent adequately the operations of the scalpel;
and often when they are thus isolated within anatomical bound
ing lines, they affect, by pressure, or by the spread of the same
morbid process, in a degree too slight to leave decided traces,
the functions of contiguous parts, thus clouding the judgments
of the best pathologists, and invalidating their inferences.
There is, however, a very remarkable case described by Pro
fessor Royer Collard, to which these objections do not apply.
SpreVale, an invalided soldier, was upwards of seventeen years
the subject of medical observation in the Maison de Sant6 of
Charenton. This individual remained for the last seven years
of his life with the legs and thighs permanently crossed, and
totally incapable of motion, though retaining their sensibility.
On opening after death the spinal canal, there was found the
                      (oraf maolmlliossstemtheent)whoofletheofwthhoele   anterior part
pultaceous softening                                                    fibrous cords

of the medulla, and
which form it. The anterior roots of the spinal nerves had
also lost their accustomed consistency; while the posterior sur
face of the spinal cord, and its investing membrane, were healthy.
Several of the cases observed by Sir Charles Bell furnish also
unequivocal proof of the soundness of the views developed by

experiment.
   There exist, indeed, few truths in physiology established
on so wide and solid a basis of experimental research and pa
thological observation, as those deduced by Sir Charles Bell,
the original discoverer, and by Magendie, his successor in the
path of inquiry, respecting the offices of the spinal medulla.

   * See in particular Dr. Rullier's case, torn. iii. p. 173; and Dr. Koreffs,
torn. iv. p. 376.
REPORT ON THE PHYSIOLOGY OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. 79

This organ may now be regarded as mainly, if not solely, a

medium of intercourse between the external world and the brain,
and again between the brain and the voluntary muscles, its two
anterior columns being subservient to motion, its two posterior
to sensation. In the present state of our knowledge it would
be fruitless to try to penetrate into the minute philosophy of
these actions : but it seems probable, from recent discoveries
on the ultimate anatomy of tissue, that these actions are mole
cular,  having their place in the
living  textures are resolvable    gblyobmuliacrroeslecmopeinctsa, nianltyosiswh;--ichthaaltl

the physical changes, e. g. impressed by external objects on the
delicate net-work of nerve which invests the tegumentary mem

branes and open cavities, are propagated thence, from particle
to particle, along the continuous filaments, to their origins in the

mpthoueslyutesbrieoocrfomvsopeliintaioolbnjceoicsltussmimnosfi,laparelnyrdctetrhapentinsomcnei;tt--teodatnheddoctwheannttrtahtlheepaomnintote,triviwoerhescrtoei
lumns and nerves, to the organs of locomotion. Indeed, it is a
legitimate inference from Sir Charles Bell's discoveries, that a
simple nervous filament, or medullary column, can only propa
gate an impression in one line of direction, viz. either towards
or from the central seat of perception and of will ; and this cu
rious law of nervous actions would seem to point at some in
Itsensible molecular motion as their essential condition.

        remains to investigate the arguments which have been
supposed to prove the residence in the spinal marrow of the
power of originating and controlling the actions of the heart.
This question has been matter of eager controversy, from its
bearing upon the general relations of nerve and muscle. With
out prejudging this latter topic, it may simplify its future con
sideration, and will at the same time be more consistent with

strict arrangement, to state here merely the facts which have

reference to the spinal medulla.

   The work of Legallois, entitled "Experiences sur le Prin
cipe de la Vie, notamment sur celui des Mouvemens du Ccetir
et sur le Siege de ce Principe*," was the first remarkable essay
on the relations between the heart and the spinal cord. It will,
however, be sufficient to allude in general terms to the conclu
sions of Legallois, since they have been entirely subverted by
the subsequent researches of Dr. Wilson Philip and M. Flou-
rens. Legallois's main doctrine was, that the principle which
animates each part of the body resides in that part of the spinal
medulla whence its nerves have their origin ; and that it is also

        · (Euvres de Legallou, torn. i. pp. 97, 99, &c.
80 THIRD REPORT 1883.

from the spinal cord that the heart derives the principle of its
life and its motion*. The experimental proof supposed to
establish these propositions consisted in destroying in different
rabbits portions of the cervical, dorsal and lumbar medulla.
Cessation of the heart's action was affirmed to be the constant
result of the operation ; but even in some of Legallois's own ex

periments f, the motions of the heart continued after consider
able injury had been inflicted on the spinal cord, and especially
on its lower divisions. Still more unequivocal is the evidence
that has been advanced by Dr. Wilson Philip, in his Inquiry
into the Laws of the Vital Functions. His experiments, which
were very numerous and judiciously varied, show that the cir
culation continues long after entire removal of the spinal mar

row, and that by artificially maintaining respiration, the motions
of the heart may be almost indefinitely prolonged. Flourens,
in the 10th vol. of the Mem. de VAcadkmie%, has lately con
firmed Dr. Philip's views : he has shown that the circulation is
entirely independent of the spinal marrow. The influence ap

parently exerted is only secondary, being due to the suspension
of the respiratory movements. Thus all those portions of the
spinal marrow which can be destroyed in the different classes
of animals without arresting respiration, may be removed with
out affecting the circulation. In fishes and frogs the entire
spinal cord may be destroyed without checking the heart's mo

tions, because in these classes the medulla oblongata presides
excNleursviveesl.y--oTvhere
                             the respiratory function.  which is most conve
                             classification of nerves,

nient to the  physiologist, is based  wupoounldthdeisirtrvibituatleptrhoepmertiinetso--or
functions.    Such an arrangement
1, nerves of motion; 2, nerves both of motion and sensation;
3, the nerves ministering to the senses of sight, smell and hear
ing; and 4, the ganglionic system, or, according to Bichat,
nerves of organic life. Sir Charles Bell has added a fifth class,
comprising nerves which he supposes are dedicated to the
respiratory motions. But it will afterwards appear, that the
existence of an exclusive system of respiratory nerves is not
supported by sufficient evidence.
   The first class of nerves exercising the single office of con
veying motion comprehends the 3rd, 4th, 6th, portio dura of
the 7th, the 9th, and perhaps two divisions of the 8th, viz. the
glossopharyngeal and spinal accessory. Mr. H. Mayo's expe
riments detailed in his Anatomical and Physiological Commen
taries, No. 1 1. (and Journal de Physique, torn, iii.) throw much

· p. 259.                    t pp- 100, 101, 105.       t p. 025.
   REPORT ON THE PHYSIOLOGY OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. 81

light on the functions of several of these nerves. The motions of
the iris, he shows, require the integrity of the third pair, division
of these nerves being         always followed by full dilatation             of
pupils, which cease to        be obedient to the stimulus of light.              the
                                                                             If  the
divided end of the nerve communicating with the eye be pinched
by the forceps, the iris contracts. Hence it is apparent that dimi
nution of the pperture of the pupil is the result of action, and
dilatation of the pupil the result of relaxation, of the iris. Flou-
rens has shown that complete extirpation of the tubercula quad-
rigemina also paralyses the iris, and that irritation of those bo
dies excites its contractions. The same effect is noticed by Mayo
to arise from division or irritation of the optic nerve. He divided
the optic nerves within the cranium of a pigeon immediately
after decapitation. When the end of the nerve connected with
the ball of the eye was seized in the forceps, no action ensued ;
but when the end attached to the brain was irritated, the iris

immediately contracted. These several experiments clearly in
dicate the dependence of the iris upon the optic nerve, upon
the tubercula from which one root of that nerve springs, and
upon the third pair. The stimulus of light impinges upon the

retina, is conveyed along the optic nerve through the tubercle

to the sensorium, whence the motive impression is propagated
to the iris by the third encephalic nerve.

tphaaIttthetishtiecnyio, taorsreofodeuearssttyhintepodaidre"ofitfnoneeprtvrhoeevsi.dpereScfiiosrerChtmhaeordleienssoeBfnesalilcbtl*ieonsuapnopdfostiehnse
stinctive rolling of the eyeball, and to associate this motion of
the eyeball with the winking motions of the eyelids." He even
conjectures that "the influence of the fourth nerve is, on cer
tain occasions, to cause a relaxation of the muscle to which it
goes." It is certain, however, from its exclusive distribution to
the superior oblique muscle, that the fourth is a nerve of motion.
The sixth nerve is also a nerve of voluntary motion, and is sent
to the rectus externus of the eyeball.
   Sir Charles Bell has placed the portio dura of the seventh
pair among his respiratory nerves. There is, however, no doubt
that it is simply a motive nerve, and that it is indeed the only
nerve of motion, which supplies all the muscles of the face,
except those of the lower jaw and palate. Division of this
nerve occasions no expression of pain, according to Bell ; but
Mayo's experience is opposed to this absence of sensibility f.
''The motion of the nostril of the same side instantly ceased,

·  Natural  HSy.stMemayoo'fs  Nerves, p. 358.  Physiological  Commentaries,  Part I.;
   See Mr.                     Anatomical and
t
and Outlines of Human Physiology,  2nd edit., p. 334.
    1833.
                                      g
82 THIRD REPORT 1833.

after its section in an ass *, and that side of the face remained
at rest and placid during the highest excitement of the other
parts of the respiratory organs." These and similar observa
tions are all consistent with the opinion, that the seventh is

simply a nerve of voluntary motion. It will afterwards appear
that it has no claim to any further endowment.
Mr. Herbert Mayo infers from his experiments, that the three
divisions of the eighth pair are all nerves both of motion and
sensation. Thus the glossopharyngeus is a nerve of motion to
                         perhaps of sensibility to the                He
the pharynx,     a"ndon   irritating the glossopharyngeal  tongue.  in an
observed that                                                nerve

animal recently killed, the muscular fibres about the pharynx

facted, but not those of the tongue ." Irritation of the spinal

accessory produced both muscular contractions and pain. The

par vagum, he conceives, bestows sensibility on the membrane
of the larynx, besides conveying the motive stimulus to its
muscles. This nerve has been the subject of experiment from

the earliest times, and Legallois has minutely described the
results obtained by successive inquirers J. These were singu
larly discordant, and gave origin to the most opposite theories
of the mode of action of the par vagum. In the greater number
of experiments, section of this nerve was followed, after a longer
or shorter interval, by death. Piccolhomini contended that the
division of the nerve was fatal from its arresting the move
ments of the heart, and after him Willis supported the same
doctrine. By Haller, on the contrary, the cause of death was
sought in disturbance of the digestive functions. Bichat and
Dupuytren seem to have been the first to obtain a glimpse of the
true seat of injury. The former remarked that the respiration
became very laborious after section of the nerve, and Dupuytren

distinctly traced death to asphyxia. Legallois has established
by numerous experiments the accuracy of this last view. He

has shown that in very young animals death is the immediate
consequence of the operation of cutting either the par vagum
or its recurrent branch, and that the suddenness of the effect
is due to the narrowness of the aperture of the glottis in early
age. In adult animals, the asphyxia is induced by the effusion
of serous fluids and ropy discoloured mucus into the bronchial
tubes                    More recently, Dr. Wilson Philip
tised  and air-cells.    the par vagum with an especial    has prac
                                                           reference
       the section of

to its influence upon digestion. He divided the nerve below
the origin of the inferior laryngeal branch, as in this case the

* pp. 105, 107.          t Outlines of Human Physiology, 2nd edit., p. 337.

J CEnvres, p. 1 54 et seq.
       REPORT ON THE PHYSIOLOGY OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. 83

dyspnoea is much less considerable than when the wound is in

flicted on the higher portion*. It was found, in all these trials,
that food introduced into the stomach after the operation re
mained wholly undigested. Hence Dr. Philip infers the de
pendence of secretion upon nervous influence, a conclusion, it
has been remarked by Dr. Alison, not logically deducible from

the experimental dataf.
   The par vagum cannot then, it is obvious, be included in the

class of nerves subservient solely to motion ; and it is even
doubtful whether the other two divisions of the eighth pair are
not also endowed with sensibility. Respecting the function of
the ninth, or lingual, there is, however, no place for hesitation.

It has been experimentally proved by Mr. Mayo to supply the
muscles of the tongue ; though he also asserts that pinching it
with the forceps excited pain. Three of these nerves, the third,
sixth, and ninth, arise, it was first remarked by Sir Charles
Bell, from a tract of medullary matter continuous with the an
terior column of the spinal marrow : and hence their exclusive
office of conducting motive impressions.

  II. There are thirty-two pairs of nerves of similar anatomical

origin and composition, which possess the twofold office of com
municating motion and sensation. Of these, all excepting one
(the fifth pair of the cerebral nerves) spring from the spinal
marrow. These thirty-one pairs are precisely analogous in
formation, being all constituted of two distinct series of roots,

one from the anterior column, and one from the posterior column

of the spinal marrow. The posterior funiculi collected together

form a ganglion, seated just before this root is joined by the

anterior root. It has been already stated that the power of
propagating sensation resides in the posterior column, and in
       t
                                       of it,

                                                                     : it

                                                                 a It
the nervous roots arising from and that the motive faculty

has its seat in the anterior column and roots. The evidence,

also, supplied by Bell and Magendie, that the spinal nerves are
hence nerves of double office, has been fully detailed.
                                                                           re
mains, then, to establish the title of the fifth pair of cerebral
nerves to be included in the same class with the spinal nerves.
   The analogy in structure and mode of origin between the
fifth pair and the nerves of the spine has been long matter of
observation. Prochaska has thus distinctly noticed in pas
       of his Essay  De Structurd Nervorum, published                    i"nQ1u7a7r9e,
sage                 to me by my friend Dr. Holme
       pointed out
first

omnium cerebri nervorum, solum quintum par post ortum suum

       · Experimental Inquiry, 3rd edit., p. 109.

         g2Dr. Alison, Journal Science, vol. ix. p. 106.
84 THIRD REPORT-- 1838.

more nervorum spinalium, ganglion semilunare dictum, fhcere
debet? sub quo peculiaris funiculorum fasciculus ad tertium

quinti paris ramum, maxillarem inferiorem dictum, properat,
insalutato ganglio semilunari, ad similitudinem radicum ante-
riorum nervorum spinalium ?" Sommerring has also pointed
out with equal clearness the resemblance in distribution be
tween the smaller root of the fifth and the anterior roots of the
spinal nerves. But Sir Charles Bell was the first to establish
the identity of their functions, and to arrange them prominently
in the same natural division. His experiment consisted in
exposing the fifth           at its root, in an ass, the moment
animal was killed.  "pOainr  irritating the nerve, the muscles of           the
                                                                            the

jaw acted, and the jaw was closed with a snap. On dividing
the root of the nerve in a living animal, the jaw fell relaxed."
In another                                                                  of the
fifth nerve  experiment the  "sTuopuecrhioirngmathxiisllarnyervberangcahve
             was exposed.                                                    acute

pain ;       the side of the lip was observed to hang low, and
it was dragged to the other side." Sir Charles Bell concluded
that the fifth nerve and its branches are endowed with the attri
butes of motion and sensation. This, though correct as regards
the nerve itself, viewed as a whole, is strictly true only of the
lowest of its three divisions, viz. the inferior maxillary. The
ophthalmic and the superior maxillary, the subject of the last
experiment, are nerves simply of sensation. Mr. Herbert Mayo
in the Essay already referred to, has pointed out this error,
and has defined with minute precision the relative offices of the
fifth and seventh nerves. By a careful dissection of the fifth
nerve he found that the anterior branch, or smaller root, which
goes, as Prochaska was aware, entirely to the inferior maxillary,
is distributed exclusively to the circumflexus palati, the ptery
goids, and temporal and masseter muscles. He observed that sec
tion of the supra and infra orbitar branches, and of the inferior

maxillary, near the foramina, whence they emerge, induces loss
of sensation in the corresponding parts of the face. It may then
be regarded as fully proved that the trigeminus or fifth pair is
the nerve which bestows sensation on the face and its appen
dages, and motion only on the muscles connected with the lower
jaw. The other muscles of the face derive their motive power
from the portio dura of the seventh nerve.

   M. Magendie has also published several memoirs on the
functions of the fifth pair. In these he attempts to prove
that the olfactory nerve is not the nerve of smell ; that the op
tic is but partially the nerve of vision; and that the auditory is
not the principal nerve of hearing. It is in the fifth pair that

he supposes all these distinct and special endowments to reside.
       REPORT ON THE PliYSIOLOGY OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. 85

But the experimental proof will be found to be singularly in
conclusive. The olfactory nerves were entirely destroyed in a
dog. After the operation it continued sensible to strong odours,
as of ammonia, acetic acid, or essential oil of lavender ; and the
introduction of a probe into the nasal cavity excited the same
motions and pain as in an unmutilated dog. The fifth pair was
then divided  in several young animals, the olfactory being left
              signs of the perception of strongly odorous sub
entire. All

stances, as sneezing, rubbing the nose, or turning away the head,
entirely disappeared. From these facts Magendie infers that
the seat of the sensations of smell is in the fifth, and not in the
first pair of nerves. It is obvious that Magendie has con
founded two modes of sensation, which are essentially distinct
in their nature and in their organic seat, viz. the true percep
tions of smell, and the common sensibility of the nasal passages.
The phenomena, which he observed to cease after the section
of the fifth nerve, are the results of simple irritation of the pi
tuitary membrane, and are manifestly wholly unconnected with
the sense of smelling, since they are producible by all powerful
chemical agents, even though inodorous, as, for example, by
sulphuric acid. No proof has been given that the true olfac
tory perceptions do not survive the destruction of the fifth pair.
Indeed, in a subsequent paper, Magendie confesses that the
loss of sensibility in the nasal membrane, after section of the
fifth, does not prove the residence of the sense of smell in the
branches of that nerve ; but merely that the olfactory nerve re
quires, for its perfect action, the cooperation of the fifth pair,
and that it possesses only a special sensibility to odorous parti

cles.
   There is even less ground for supposing that the fifth pair is
in any degree subservient to the senses of sight and hearing.
After cutting this nerve on one side, the flame of a torch was
suddenly brought near the eye, without inducing contraction of
the pupil ; but the direct light of the sun caused the animal to
close its eyelids. Thus the sensibility of the retina, though
somewhat impaired, was not destroyed by division of the fifth
pair. But section of the optic nerves was immediately followed
by total blindness. In another rabbit Magendie divided the
fifth pair on one side, and the optic nerve on the other. The
animal, he states, was completely deprived of sight, though the
eye, in which the fifth pair only had been cut, remained suscep
tible to the action of the solar rays. No evidence, however, is
offered to show that the animal was entirely blind : on the con
trary, the only change observed, on approaching a torch to an
Hninjured eye, was contraction of the iris ; and this we are told
86 THIRD REPORT 1833.

was actually observed in the eye of the side, on which the fifth

nerve had been divided.
Magendie has assigned another singular function to the fifth
       viz. to preside over the nutrition of the eye. Twenty-four
Eaoiurr,s after section of this nerve, incipient opacity of the cornea
was observed, which gradually increased till the cornea became
as white as alabaster. There was also great vascularity of the
conjunctiva extending to the iris, with secretion of pus, and for
mation of false membranes in the anterior chamber. About the

eighth day, the cornea began to detach itself from the sclerotica,
the centre ulcerated, and the humours of the eye finally escaped,
leaving only a small tubercle in the orbit. In this experiment,
the nerve had been divided in the temporal fossa, but when cut
immediately after leaving the pons Varolii, the morbid changes
were less marked, the movements of the globe of the eye were
preserved, the inflammation was limited to the superior part of
the eye, and the opacity occupied only a small segment of the
circumference of the cornea. After division of the nerve near
its origin in the medulla, no traces of disease were discoverable
in the eye till the seventh day, and these symptoms never be

came very prominent. Several cases have been since recorded

of structural disease of this nerve in the human subject, with
the concomitant symptoms. That of Lain£, described by Serres
in the 4th vol. of Magendie's Journal, furnishes strong support
to the views of Magendie *.

  A different explanation of this fact and of others which have
a tendency to refer secretion and nutrition to the control of
the nervous system has been proposed by Dr. Alison. Mucous
surfaces are protected from the contact of air and foreign bo
dies by a copious secretion, which is evidently regulated in
amount by their sensibility, since it is increased by any unusual
irritation. This is especially true of the membrane of the eye.
Now section of the fifth pair is known to paralyse the sensibi
lity of that organ, and the contact of air or other irritating body
upon the insensible membrane, instead of inducing an aug
mented mucous discharge, will excite the inflammatory process
dtioenscfr,ibwedhicbhy  Magendie. The disorder of the digestive func
                        followed division of the par vagum in the experi
ments of Dr. Wilson Philip, and the ulceration of the coats of
the bladder after injury of the lower part of the spinal marrow,
are attributed by Dr. Alison to the same cause.
The class of nerves which comprehends the fifth pair and

· Sae also a case of destruction of the olfactory nerves, tom. v.

t Outlines of Physiology, p. 71.
REPORT ON THE PHYSIOLOGY OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. 87

the thirty-one pairs of spinal nerves, becomes, after the union
of their roots, invested with a twofold endowment, and conti

nues so throughout their entire course and final distribution to
the muscular tissue. It would appear, indeed, from a later
paper of Sir Charles Bell *, that nerves of sensation, as well as
of motion,                                           action of the
            "aBreetwneeecensstahrey  to the perfect                 voluntary
muscles.                             brain and the   muscles there  is a circle
of nerves ; one nerve conveys the influence from the brain to
the muscle, another gives the sense of the condition of the
muscle to the brain." In the case of the spinal nerves this
circle of intercourse is at least probable ; but proof of its ne
cessity must be obtained, from observing the habitudes of those
encephalic nerves, which minister exclusively to motion. Now
it is found, on minute dissection, that the muscles of the eye
ball, which are supplied by the third, fourth and sixth motive

nerves, also receive sensitive filaments from the ophthalmic

branch of the fifth; and that the muscles of the face, to which
the portio dura is distributed, are also furnished with branches

of sensation from the fifth. Sir Charles Bell has further shown
that the muscles of the lower jaw, to which the motive im
pression is propagated by the muscular branch of the inferior
maxillary, draw nervous supplies also from the ganglionic or
           branch of that division     of the fifth pair.  This
sensitive  provision has its origin,                                "conme
plicated                              he supposes, in its  being
cessary to the governance of the muscular frame that there
should be consciousness of the state or degree of action of the

muIsIcIl.esT."he olfactory, auditory and optic nerves are gifted with

a special sensibility to the objects of the external senses, to
which they respectively minister. Magendie seems to have
been the first to prove, experimentally, that they do not also
share the common or tactile sensibility. He exposed the olfac
tory nerves, and found that, like the hemispheres of the brain
from which they spring, they are insensible to pressure, prick
ing, or even laceration. Strong ammonia was dropped upon
them without eliciting any signs of feeling. The optic nerve,
and its expansion on the retina, participate with the olfactory
in this insensibility to stimulants. This was proved by Ma
gendie in the human subject as well as in animals. In perform
ing the operation of depressing the opaque lens, he repeatedly
touched the retina in two different individuals without awaken
ing the slightest sensation. The portio mollis, or acoustic nerve,
was also touched, pressed, and even torn without causing pain.

            · Philosophical Transaction, 1826, p. 163.
88 THIRD REPORT -- 1833.

IV. The functions of the ganglia, of the great sympathetic
nerve, and its intricate plexuses and anastomotic connexions, are
matter, at present, of conjecture. Dr. Johnstone, in an Essay
on the Use of the Ganglions, published in 1771, has described
                                                                                  He
asupfepwoseinscotnhcalut siv"eganegxlpioenrismeanrtes   on the cardiac  nerves.
                                                       the instruments  by which  the

motions of   --thae   heart  and intestines are rendered uniformly                in
voluntary,"          notion  which Sir Charles Bell has shown to be               to

tally unsound. The best history of opinions, to which indeed
our knowledge reduces itself, will be found in the physiological
section of Lobstein's work, De Nervi Sympathetici Fabrica,
Usu, et Morbis*.
   In the earliest of his communications to the Royal Society,

as well as in his last work on the Nervous System f, Sir Charles

Bell has maintained the existence of a separate class of nerves,
Jsubservient to the regular and the associated actions of respira

tion. The origins of these nerves "are in a line or series, and
from a distinct column of the spinal marrow. Behind the corpus
olivare, and anterior to that process, which descends from the

cerebellum, called sometimes the corpus restiforme, a convex
strip of medullary matter may be observed. From this tract of
medullary matter, on the side of the medulla oblongata, arise, in
succession from above downwards, the portio dura of the seventh
Inerve, the gloss opharyngeus nerve, the nerve of the par vagum,

the nervus ad par vagum accessorius, and, as imagine, the
phrenic and the external respiratory nerves." The fourth pair

is also received into the same class.
This doctrine of an exclusive system of respiratory nerves,
associated in function by virtue of an anatomical relation of
their roots, has not, as Sir Charles Bell seems himself aware §,
received the concurrence of many intelligent physiologists of
this country or of the Continent. Mr. Herbert Mayo, in the ad
mirable Essay already referred to, was the first to point out the
true relations of the fifth and seventh nerves. He has shown
that the muscles of the face, excepting those already enumer
ated, which elevate the lower jaw, receive their motive nerves
exclusively from the seventh, and consequently that this nerve
       DPgrro.ivnAecrliinpsloeanl,loitfnhSehyiirsmmvpeoarttyiohneysl,a", bvhooaralsutencatapsatrypceoarnss||wid"eeOlrlanbalstehreedsPophuiyrbasttsioolrooyn.
must

But

gical

· Paris 1823.                                          t 4to, 1830.

X The Nervous System of the Human Body,.y. 129. 4to, 1830.
§ Op. cit., p. 1 15.
                                                                        vol. ii.
li Transaction; of the Medico-chirurgical Society of Edinburgh, 1826,
p. 16.5.
REPORT ON THE PHYSIOLOGY OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. 89

the soundness of this part of Sir Charles Bell's arrangement, as
respects not only the individual nerves thus classed together, but
even the general principle on which the entire system rests.
The reasoning of Dr. Alison consists, first, in referring the
phenomena of   onfastuymrapl aathnedticexaccitteiodns.respIniratthioenseto"ththee
hensive order                                                                                      compre
                                                                                                    pheno
menon observed is, that on an irritation or stimulus being
applied to one part of the body, the voluntary muscles of an
other, and often distant part, are thrown into action." Now
it has been long since fully established by Dr. Whytt, that
these associations in function cannot be referred to any con
nexions, either in origin or in course, of the nerves supplying

remote organs so sympathizing; and that a sensation is the
necessary antecedent of the resulting muscular action. Thus
it is known that these actions cease in the state of coma ;

are not excited when the mind is strongly impressed by any
other sensation or thought ; and that the same muscular con
tractions may be induced by the irritation of different parts of
the body, provided the same sensation be excited. Dr. Alison
has, however, failed to show* that the essential acts of inspira
tion, viz. the contractions of the diaphragm and intercostals,
require the intervention of a sensation. Their continuance in
the state of coma, and in the experiments of Legallois and
Flourens after the entire removal of the brain, and their di

stinct reference by these two inquirers to the medulla oblon
gata, which has never been supposed to be the seat of sensa
tion, prove them to be independent of the will and of perception.
But this is true only of the essential, not of the associated

respiratory phenomena.

   Dr. Alison proceeds to show that there is equal reason for
classing almost all the nerves of the brain, and many more of
the spinal nerves, with those exclusively named respiratory by
Sir Charles Bell. Thus the lingual nerve governs an infinite
fnaecurtmiioonrbemrofaoxsfuilmclakorintyigo,n"s--msoatvnreicastclttyihoeansmscoulcesiacalrteelysd   with respiration : the in
                                                                                                    of the lower jaw in the
                                                                                                   instinctive when first per

flioferm, eadndbyaltwhaeysinfiannt,confrneeqxuioenntlywitrhepetahteedacvt oolufntraersilpyiradtuiorinn.g'
        the sensitive branches of  the fifth                                                       pair cooperate in
Again,                              nerves                                                         be admitted into   the
act of  sneezing. But if these                                                                                        the
system, the fundamental principle of that system, viz. origin
in a line or series, is at once violated. Nor is this connexion
in origin more than matter of conjecture, as regards two of the

               * p. 176, and note.
90 THIRD REPORT 1833.

most important   --otfhtehephnreervneics,ancdlastsheedexbtyerSniar l  Charles Bell   himself
as respiratory,                                                        respiratory.   These

two nerves branch from the cervical or regular double-rooted
          Moreover, the   circumstance of   riinsinfgunicntiolinn.ear"
series.  is not found to                                                             suc
cession                   associate nerves                                           Be
tween the roots of the phrenic nerve and those of the inter-
costals, there intervene in the same series the origins of the
three lowest cervical nerves, and the first dorsal, which go
chiefly to the axillary plexus and to the arm, and which are

not respiratory nerves."

   In recapitulation, the following facts are among the most
important that have been fully ascertained in the physiology of

the nervous system.
    1. One universal type has been followed in the formation of

the nervous system in vertebrated animals. The brain of the
human foetus is gradually evolved in the successive months of
uterine existence ; and these stages of progressive develop
ment strictly correspond with permanent states of the adult
brain at inferior degrees of the animal scale.

   2. These successive increments of cerebral matter are found
to be accompanied by parallel advances in the manifestation of
the higher instincts and of the mental faculties.

   3. That the brain is the material organ of all intellectual

states and operations, is proved by observation on comparative
development, as well as by experiments on living animals, and

by the study of human pathology. But there does not exist
any conclusive evidence for referring separate faculties, or
moral affections, to distinct portions of brain.

   4. Certain irregular movements are produced by injuries of
the corpora striata, thalami optici, crura cerebelli, and semi
circular canals of the internal ear.

   5. The tubercula quadrigemina preside over the motions
of the iris, and their integrity seems essential even to the func
tions of the retina. They are also, according to Flourens, the
points, at which irritation first begins to excite pain and mus
cular contractions.

   6. The cerebellum appears to exercise some degree of con
trol over the instruments of locomotion ; but the precise na
ture and amount of this influence cannot be distinctly defined.

   7. The cerebrum, cerebellum and medulla oblongata possess
the faculty of acting primordially, or spontaneously, without
requiring foreign excitation. The spinal cord and the nerves
are not endowed with spontaneity of action, and are therefore

termed subordinate parts.
REPORT ON THE PHYSIOLOGY OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. 91

8. The medulla oblongata exercises the office of originating
and regulating the motions essential to the act of respiration.
By virtue of its continuity with the spinal marrow, it also par
ticipates in the functions of that division of nervous matter.
   9. The function of the spinal cord is simply that of a con
ductor of motive impulses, from the brain to the nerves supply
ing the muscles, and of sensitive impressions from the surface
of the body                    the sensorium commune. These two vital
                           to  distinct portions of the spinal medulla, -- the
offices reside             in
propagation of motion in its anterior columns, the transmission
of sensations in its posterior columns. There is no necessary
dependence of the motions of the heart, and the other invo

luntary muscles, on the spinal marrow.
             T:--IhIeII..                                               in  the four following
     10.  ;                nerves are comprehended
                                                                       II.  Of motion and sen
classes                    Nerves simply of motion ;                   IV.  The ganglionic sy
sation                     Of three of the senses ;

stem.
   I. The nerves of motion are the third, fourth, sixth, portio
dura of the seventh, and the ninth. It is not ascertained whe
ther the glossopharyngeal and spinal accessory nerves belong to
this or to the second class.
11. The function of ministering both to motion and sensation
is possessed by the fifth pair of cerebral nerves, and by the
spinal nerves, which agree precisely in anatomical composition.

The par vagum, however, which is one of the irregular nerves,
has also a twofold endowment.

  III. This division comprises the first and second pairs, and
the portio mollis of the seventh pair. These nerves are insen
sible to
to their     roersdpiencatrivyestoimbjuelcatns,ts--, avinzd.  possess  an exclusive sensibility
                                                              odorous  matter, light, and aerial

undulations.

   IV. The system of the great sympathetic nerve, and its as

sociated plexuses and ganglia.
-*.' -fl! )
                        [ to ]

Report on               tohfeMparteesreinatls.StateByofPoeutrerKnBoawrlelodwge,  rEessqpe.,ctFin.gR.Sth.e,
   Strength
   Corr. Memb. Inst. France, §c. $c.

The theory of the strength of materials, considered merely as
a branch of mechanical or physical science, must be admitted
to hold only a very subordinate rank ; but in a country in which
machinery and works of every description are carried to a great
extent, it certainly becomes a subject of much practical im
portance ; and it was no doubt viewing it in this light which led
the Committee of the British Association, at their last Meeting,
to do me the honour to request me to furnish them with a
communication on the subject. In drawing my attention to this
                                                        it into the following
hineqaudisry:--, th1.e    Committee have   subdivided   of different authors,
                        Whether, from the  experiments

we have arrived at any general principles? 2. What those
principles are ? 3. How modified in their application to dif
ferent substances ? And what are the differences of opinion
which at present prevail on those subjects ?
   To these questions, without a formal division of the Essay,
I
   shall endeavour to reply in the following pages, by drawing
a concise sketch of the experimental and theoretical researches
which have been undertaken with reference to these inquiries.
   The subject of the strength of materials, from its great prac
tical importance, has engaged the attention of several able
men, both theoretical and practical, and much useful informa
tion has been thereby obtained. As far as relates to the me
chanical effects of different strains, everything that can be
desired has been effected ; but the uncertain nature of mate
rials generally, will not admit of our drawing from experiment
such determinate data as could be wished. Two trees of the
same wood, grown in the same field, having pieces selected
from the same parts, will frequently differ from each other very
considerably in strength, when submitted to precisely the same
strain. The like may be said of two bars of iron from the
same ore, the same furnace, and from the same rollers, and
even of different parts of the same bar ; and so likewise of
two ropes, two cables, &c. We must not, therefore, in ques
tions of this kind, expect to arrive at data so fixed and deter
minate as in many other practical cases ; but still, within cer
tain limits, much important information has been obtained for
94 THIRD REPORT -- 1833.

Ithe guidance of practical men ; and by tabulating such results

in a subsequent part of this article, shall endeavour to answer
the leading questions of the Committee of the British Associa
tion, as far, at least, as relates to experimental results. In re

ference to theory, it must also be admitted that some uncer
tainty still remains ; but this likewise is in a great measure to
be referred to the nature of the materials, which is such as to
offer resistances by no means consistent with any fixed and

determinate laws.

Hence some authors have assumed the fibres or crystals

composing a body to be perfectly incompressible, and others
as perfectly elastic ; whereas it is known that they are strictly

neither one nor the other, the law of resistance being differ
ently modified in nearly every different substance ; and as it is
requisite theoretically to assume some determinate law of action,
it necessarily follows that some doubt must also hang over this

branch of the subject. It is, however, fortunate that whatever

may be the uncertainty on these points, the relative strength

of different beams or bolts of the same material, of similar forms

and submitted to similar strains, is not thereby affected ; so that

whatever may be the law which the fibres or particles of a
body observe in their resistance to compression or extension,
still, from the result of a well conducted series of experiments,
the absolute resisting force of beams of similar forms, of the
same materials, of any dimensions, submitted to similar strains,

may, as far as the mean strength can be depended upon, be

satisfactorily deduced. An examination of these different views
taken of the subject by different writers will, it is hoped, be
found to furnish a reply to the other queries of the Committee.
The first writer who endeavoured to connect this inquiry with
geometry, and thereby to submit it to calculations, was the ve
nerable Galileo, in his Dialogues, published in 1633. He there
considers solid bodies as being made up of numerous small
fibres placed parallel to each other, and their resistance to se
paration to a force applied    paarreaal,le--l atno  their length, to be pro
portional to their transverse                        assumption at once ob
vious and indisputable, abstracting from the defects and irre
gularities of the materials themselves. He next inquired in

what manner these fibres would resist a force applied perpen
dicularly to their length : and here he assumed that they were
wholly incompressible ; that the fibres under every degree of
tension resisted with the same force, and, consequently, that
when a beam was fixed solidly in a horizontal position, with one
end in a wall or other immoveable mass, the resistance of the
integrant fibres was equal to the sum of their direct resistances
REPORT ON THE STRENGTH OF MATERIALS.                                             95

multiplied by the distance of the centre of gravity of their sec
tion from the lowest point ; about which point, according to

this hypothesis, the motion must necessarily take place.
The fallacy of these assumptions was noticed, but not cor
rected, by several subsequent authors. Leibnitz objected to
the doctrine of the fibres resisting equally under all degrees
of tension, but admitted their incompressibility, thereby still
making the motion take place about the lowest point of the sec
tion ; but he assumed for the law of resistance to extension that
it was always proportional to the quantity of extension. Ac
cordingly as the one or the other of these hypotheses was
adopted, the computed transverse resistance of a beam, as de
pending on the absolute strength of its fibres, varied in the
ratio of 3 to 2 ; and many fanciful conclusions have been drawn
by different authors relative to the strength of differently formed
beams, founded upon the one or the other of these assumptions,
which, however, it will be unnecessary to refer to more parti

cularly in this article.
We have seen that each of these distinguished philosophers
                 incompressibility of the fibres ; but James Ber
supposed the     this part of Leibnitz's hypothesis, and considered
noulli rejected
the fibres as both compressible and extensible, and that the
resistance to each force was proportional to the degree of ex
tension or compression. Consequently, the motion instead of
taking place, as hitherto considered, about the lowest point of
the section, was now necessarily about a point within it ; and
his conclusion was, that whatever be the position of the axis of
motion, or, as it is now commonly called, the neutral axis, the
same force applied to the same arm of a lever will always pro
duce the same effect, whether all the fibres act by extension
or by compression, or whether only a part of them be extended,
and a part compressed. Dr. Robison, in an elaborate article
on this subject, also assumes the compressibility and exten
sibility of the fibres, and as a consequence, assumes the centre
of compression as a fulcrum, about which the forces to exten
sion are exerted, and the resistance of both forces to be directly
proportional to the degree of compression or extension to which
they are exposed ; that is, he assumed each force, although
not necessarily offering equal power of resistance, to be indivi
dually subject to the law of action appertaining to perfectly
elastic bodies. In carrying on the experiments which laid the
            of   mseyveErsasl aycirocnumthsetaSntcreesngtIh  of Timber, Sfc, in
foundation                                                                        1817,
            by                                               had observed to
I was led                                                                        doubt
whether, in the case of timber, this assumption of perfect elas
ticity was admissible. And as some of the specimens used in
96 THIRD REPORT -- 1833.a
                               it,
Imy experiments showed very distinctly after the fracture the
    ;           it
line about which the fracture took place, thought of availing;
myself of this datum, and that which gave the strength of direct
cohesion, in order to deduce the law of resistance from actual  is
experiment, instead of using any assumed law whatever.
                                                                    a
   The result of this investigation implied that the resistance                      ;
was nearly as first assumed by Galileo, and although very dif
                                                                is
Iferent from what had anticipated, yet, as an experimental re
Isult, felt bound to abide by attributing the discrepance toI

isthe imperfect elastic properties of the material. Mr. Hodgkin-I;is;
son, however, in very ingenious paper read at the Manchesteris
Philosophical Society in 1822, has pointed out an error inisis             a
my investigation, by my having assumed the momentum of                      in

the forces on each side the neutral axis as equal to each other,

instead of the forces themselves consequently the above de
duction in favour of the Galilean hypothesis fails. This paper
did not come to my knowledge till the third edition of my Essay
was nearly printed oft", and the correction could not then be
made but being made, proves that the law of actual resistance
approaches much nearer to that of perfect elasticity than from
the nature of the materials there could be any reason to expect
so that in cases where the position of the neutral axis known,
and also its resistance to direct cohesion, a tolerably close ap
proximation may be made to the transverse strength of beam
of any form, by assuming the resistance to extension to be pro
portional to the quantity of extension, and the centre of com
pression as the fulcrum about which that resistance exerted.
But have before observed, and beg again to repeat, that by
far the most satisfactory data will always be obtained by ex
periments on beams of the like form (however small the scale,)
and of the same material as those to be employed, because then
the law of resistance forms no part of the inquiry, and does not

necessarily enter into the calculation, the ultimate strengths
being dependent on the dimensions only, whatever may be the

absolute or relative resistance of the fibres to the two forces

we have been considering.

   At present have only considered the resistance of beam
to a transverse strain but there another mode of application,
in which, again, the law of resistance necessarily enters, and
has led to many curious and even mysterious conclusions. This

   when a force of compression applied parallel to the length.
In the case of short blocks, the resistance of the material to a
crushing force all that necessary to be known and the
Philosophical Transactions for 1818 we have a highly valuable
table of experimental results on great variety of materials, by
                           a
       REPORT ON THE STRENGTH OF MATERIALS.                 97

George Rennie, Esq., which contains nearly all the information
on this subject that can be desired. But when a beam is of con
siderable length in comparison with its section, it is no longer
the crushing force that is to be considered : the beam will bend

and be ultimately destroyed by an operation very similar to

that which breaks it transversely ; and the investigation of these
circumstances has called forth the efforts of Euler, Lagrange,
and some other distinguished mathematicians.
   When a cylindric body considered as an aggregate of pa

rallel fibres is pressed vertically in the direction of its length,
it is difficult to fix on data to determine the point of flexure,
since no reason can be assigned why it should bend in one way
rather than in another ; still, however, we know that practically
such bending will take place. And it is made to appear, by the
investigations of Euler and Lagrange, that with a certain weight
                                       --casaen,  but that  with a less
this ought theoretically to be the                apparent  interruption
weight no such an effect is produced,
of the law of continuity not easily explained, which exhibits
itself, however, analytically, by the expression for the ordinate

of greatest inflection being imaginary till the weight or pressure
amounts to a certain quantity. Another mysterious result from
these investigations is, that while the column has any definite di
mensions, and is loaded with a certain weight, inflection as above

stated takes place ; but if the column be supposed infinitely
thin, then it will not bend till the weight is infinitely great.
These investigations of two such distinguished geometers are
highly interesting as analytical processes, but the hypothesis
on which they are founded, namely, that of the perfect elas
ticity of the materials, is inconsistent with the nature of bodies
employed in practice : they form, therefore, rather an exercise
of analytical skill than of useful practical deductions. There
is, however, one useful result to be drawn from these processes,

which is, that the weight under which a given column begins
to bend is directly as its absolute elasticity ; so that, having de
termined experimentally the weight which a column of given
elasticity will support safely, or that at which inflection would
commence, we may determine the weight which another column
of the same dimensions, but of different elasticity, may be
charged with without danger.
   M. Gerard, a member of the Institute of France, aware of

the little practical information to be drawn from investigations
wholly hypothetical, has given the detail of a great number of
actual experimental results connected with this subject on oak
and fir beams of considerable dimensions, carried on at the ex-

1833.  h
98 THIRD REPORT 1 83,'i.

,,pense of the French                      Government,    --from  which  he     has   drawn            the
                                          formulae, viz.
following empirical
        ,   Ixn oak beams                 P--d/foy3-  =   11784451 (/+          -08)  a A*

        1.                                                             ^I'--dt

        2. In fir beams                   io u = 8161 128 a h ;

fwhere P = half the weight in kilogrammes, a the less, and h

the greater sides of the section, half the length of the column,
and b the versed sine of inflection, the dimensions being all in
metres *.
   How far these formulae are to be trusted in practical con

structions is, however, I consider, rather doubtful, because they

are drawn from a number of results which differ very greatly
from each other ; and in one case in particular the result, as
referred to the deflection of beams, has been satisfactorily shown
to be erroneous by Baron Charles Dupin, in vol. x. of the Jour
nal de VE'cole Polytechntque, as also by a carefully conducted
        Iof experiments in my             Essay                                       Timber,
series    conceive therefore,                             on the Strength of             set of
            it                              to be
§c.            is                                         very desirable that
                                                      is
                    is                                          a
                      a it,
                                                                    it
                                                                                               by ; a
experiments on this application of straining force on vertical
columns should be undertaken, and
                                                                  is, perhaps the only
branch of the inquiry connected with the strength of materials
in which there                            marked deficiency of practical data at the

same time       one in which both timber and iron are being con
stantly employed. We see every day in the metropolis houses
of immense height and weight being built, the whole fronts of
which, from the first floors, are supported entirely iron or
wooden columns and all this done without any practical rule
I

              it
                    is

                                       ;
that can be depended upon for determining whether or not

these columns are equal to the duty they have to perform.
say this with a full knowledge that Mr. Tredgold has fur
nished an approximate rule for this purpose but the principle
                                                                  ;

on which        founded has no substantial basis. The extra
ordinary skill which Mr. Tredgold possessed in every branch
of this subject, and the great ingenuity he has displayed in in
vestigating and simplifying every calculation connected with
architectural and mechanical construction, certainly entitle his
opinion to high consideration but still on subject of such
                                                      a;
                                                                                  a

                                                                                I
high importance, would be much more satisfactory to be posit
sessed of actual experimental data. The supposition he ad
vanced was made entirely as matter of necessity, and am

            * See Traiti Analytique de la Resistance ties Solides.
           REPORT ON THE STRENGTH OF MATERIALS.                          99

confident that no one would have been more happy than him
self to have been enabled to substitute fact for hypothesis, had
he possessed the means of adopting the former. But unfor
tunately such a series of experiments are too expensive and
laborious to be undertaken by an individual situated as he was,

having a family to maintain by his industry, and whose close

and unremitting application to these and similar inquiries, in all
                                    his valuable life*.
proAbtabpirleitsyensthoIrtehnaevde  referred principally to experiments  made
with a view of determining the ultimate strength of materials ;

and with data thus obtained practical men have been enabled
to pursue their operations with safety, by keeping sufficiently
within the limits of the ultimate strain the materials would bear,

or rather with which they would just break, some working to a

third, others to a fourth, &c, of the ultimate strength, according
to the nature of the construction, or the opinion of the con
structor.
But it is to be observed, that although we may thus ensure

perfect safety as far as relates to absolute strength, there are
many cases in which a certain degree of deflection would be

very injurious. It is therefore highly necessary to attend also
to this subject, particularly as the deflection of beams and their
ultimate strength depend upon different principles, or are at
least subject to different laws. Hence most writers of late date
give two series of values, one exhibiting the absolute or relative
strength, and the other the absolute or relative elasticities.
These values will of course be found to differ in different au
thors, on account of the uncertainty in the strength of the ma
terials already referred to, but amongst recent experiments the
difference is not important : they will also be found differently
expressed, in consequence of some authors deducing these
numbers from experiments differently made. Some, for ex
ample, have drawn their formula? for absolute strength from

experiments made on beams fixed at one end and loaded at the
other, using the whole length ; some, again, from experiments

on beams supported at each end and loaded in the middle,
using the half length. Some take the length in feet, and the
section in inches ; others all the dimension in inches ; and a
similar variety occurs in estimating the elasticity. Also, in the
latter case, some authors employ what is denominated the mo
dulus of elasticity, in which latter case the weight of the beam

   · Mr. Tredgold's Principles of Carpentry, and his Treatise on the Strength
of Iron, ought to be in the possession of every practical builder; besides which
two works, he published many separate articles on the same subject in different
numbers of the Philosophical Magazine.

                                          H2
100 THIRD REPORT-- 1833.

itself, and consequently its specific gravity, enters. These va
rieties of expressions, however, are not to be understood as
arising from any difference of opinion amongst the authors from
whom they proceed, but merely as different modes of expressing

IIthe same principles : indeed, in reply to that inquiry of the

Committee with reference to this point, may, think, venture
to say there is not at present any difference of opinion on any
of the leading principles connected with the strength of mate
rials, with the exception of such as are dependent entirely upon
the imperfect nature of the materials themselves, and which, as
we have seen, will give rise to different results in the hands of
the same experimenter and under circumstances in every re

Ispect similar.

   As distinguish the doctrine of the absolute resistance or
strength of materials, which is founded on experiment, from
that which relates to the amount and resolution of the forces or

strains to which they are exposed, which is geometrical ; and
Ias confine myself to the former subject only in this Essay, it
Iis not,
          gcroenacteerivel,enngetche. ssaIryshtaollexttheenrdefotrhee   preceding     remarks
to any                                                                 conclude    by giving
a table of the absolute and relative values of the ultimate
Istrength and elasticity of various species of timber and other

materials, selected from those results in which conceive the

greatest reliance may be placed.                Strength of Materials in
   Formula: relating
                       to the  --ulLtiemtateI,  b, d, denote the length,
cases of Transverse   Strain.

breadth and depth in inches in any beam, w the experimental

breaking weight in pounds, then will j-- ^ = S be a constant

quantity for the same material, and for the same manner of ap
plying the straining force ; but this constant is different in dif
ferent modes of application. Or, making S constant in all cases
for the same material, the above expression must be prefixed
by a coefficient, according to the mode of fixing and straining.
1. When the beam is fixed at one end, and loaded at the

other,                         bt,wd*-*a-

2. When fixed the same, but uniformly loaded,

                      -L  *    J.E.  --  s
                               Fd*
                      2

3. When supported at both ends, and loaded in the middle,
                          xx ib^d*_~S°'
                      1

                       4
            REPORT ON THE STRENGTH OF MATERIALS.                       101

4. Supported the same, and uniformly loaded,

                      J_      X     IbEd. *---°s'

                      8

5. Fixed at botli ends, and loaded in the middle,

                      J_ Iw ,,

                       6

6. Fixed the same, but uniformly loaded,

                   _1 * Iw ~ ,,

                                       12 bd~*

7. Supported at the ends, and loaded at a point not in the
middle. Then, n m being the division of the beam at the point
of application,
                      _n m          Iw   ,,
                                 *          *
                      7*~           bd2

Some        authors   state the coefficients for cases 5 and 6 as -n8-
            but both
and    1              theory  and                .  have shown         these numbers
     -77;,
                                    practice

to be erroneous.
By means of these formula?, and the value of S, given in the
following Table, the strength of any given beam, or the beam
requisite to bear a given load, may be computed. This column,
however, it must be remembered, gives the ultimate strength,
and not more than one third of this ought to be depended upon
for any permanent construction.
   Formula;                                                         Beams in cases of
Transverse   Srterlaaitninsg. --tRo etthaeiniDngeflethcetiosnamoef
                                                                    notation, but repre
senting the constant by E, and the deflection in inches by 8,
we shall have,

Case 1.      32       P       =  E.      Case 4.                    5  x'bl3dtoH~tj
                                                                    8
               1      bd3Z

             12 = E.                                         2 l3w

                      Ad3 8                         5. ~3 X bdH~

               -*"x bi!_d«HL = E                          ,,5 la to

                                                          \2 xirf38~

  Hence, again, from the column marked E in the following

Table, the deflection a given load will produce in any case may be
computed ; or, the deflection being fixed, the dimension of the
beam may be found. Some authors, instead of this measure of
102 THIRD REPORT 1833.

elasticity, deduce it immediately from the formula  l3W     =  E,
                                                    . ,a -

substituting for w the height in inches of a column of the ma
terial, having the section of the beam for its base, which is equal
to the weight w, and this is then denominated the modulus of
elasticity. It is useful in showing the relation between the
weight and elasticity of different materials, and is accordingly
introduced into the following Table.

   The above formulae embrace all those cases most commonly
employed in practice. There are, of course, other strains con
nected with this inquiry, as in the case of torsion in the axles
and shafts of wheels, mills, &c, the tension of bars in suspen

sion bridges, and those arising from internal pressure in cylin
ders, as in guns, water-pipes, hydraulic presses, &c. ; but these

fall rather under the head of the resolution of forces than that
of direct strength. It may just be observed, that the equation

due to the latter strain is

t [c -- n) = n R,

where t is the thickness of metal in inches, c the cohesive power
in pounds of a square inch rod of the given material, n the

pressure on a square inch of the fluid in pounds, and R the in
terior radius of the cylinder in inches. Our column marked C

will apply to this case, but here again not more than one third
the tabular value can be depended upon in practice.
                      REPORT ON THE STRENGTH OF MATERIALS.                                                10; J

Table of the Mean Strength and Elasticity of various Materials, as
                 deduced from the most accurate Experiments.

                                 Speci   c.           " 4»rft
                                   fic        Mean
Names of Materials.                      strength of  Constants   Constants   Modulus of        Remarks.
                                 (in<.   cohesion on   for trans  for deflec   Elasticity.
                                 vity.   an inch sec
                                                         verse        tions.
                                         tion.          strains.

        Woods.                           lbs.

Acacia                           710                  1800        4609000     3739000 of English growth.
                                                      2026        6580000
Ash                                760   1/000        1560                    4988000           ditto.
Beech                                    11500        1900        5417000
Birch, Common                     700                 1500        6570000     4457000;          ditto.
                                  700    20000                    5700000
       , American Black           750                                         5406000           ditto.
Box                              1000
                                                                              3388000 American.

Bullet Tree                      1030                 2650        10512000< 5878000 Bcrbice.
                                                      2500         74370001 4759000 ditto.
Cabacully                        900                  1550         6350000 5378000
Deal, Christiana ..                                                6420000 6268000
                                 680 11000            1730         2803000; 3007000 English.
     , Memel                                          1030         5967000 6249000
                                 590l 11000           1100         5314000; 4080000
Elm                                                   1130
                                  540      5780       1140         34000001 2797000 Scotland.
----Fir,,.RNMiegawar  England            12000
                      Forest ..   550j   12600        2700        10620000J 6118000 Bcrbice.
                                   75(1  12000        1120         4200000 4480000
Green heart                       700                 3400           767000 4649000 America, South.
                                 1000      7000
Larch, Scotch                     540    20580
                                  950
Locust Tree

Mahogany                         637      8000        1470        5830000 5789000               Results very va
Norway Spars                             12000        1200        34900001 2872000                 riablc.
                                 580                  2260
Oak, English { £°m               700      0000        -2000       700000047020000
         African                 900     15000        1380        950000055830000!
                                 980     14400        1760        3880000 2257000!
                                                      1450        8590000; 5674000
     , Adriatic...               990 14000                        4760000 3607000
                                                      2200
        , Canadian               872     12000        1630         6760000    6488000 East Indies.
                                         14500        1340         5000000    4364000
       , Dantzic ...             760                  2460                    6423000
Pear Tree                        646      9800        2700         7360000    7417000 East Indies.
Poon                             600     14000                     9660000    5826000 Berbice.

Pine, Pitch                      660 10500                        10620000

       , Red                      660    10000
Teak                                     15000
                                  750
Tonquin Bean . . .               1050

           Iron.                 7200    163001       8100        69120000    ,, .,,5530000 1                    ,. ,
                                 7760                 9000        91440000                      Mean  of  hnglisu
Iron, Cast \ .                           36000 /                                             I
       , Malleable .
       , Wire                            60000                                6770000 f and Foreign.

                                         80000
                                        [ 10.5 ]

ReoMpof.rtCth.ePoEn.Sat.hr,ethSC.toartBre.yoMSf e.omHurbu.KnntPoehwrilloeCmdhg.erisSrteoicsep.,ecPEtaisnrqgis.,,tMhHe.oMAn.a.,gFnM.eeRtmi.sSbm..
   Yorkshire Phil. Soc.; of the Royal Military Academy ; and
   Member of Trinity College, Cambridge.

Had the discovery of the loadstone's directive power been made

by a philosopher who at the same time pointed out its import
ance to the purposes of navigation, we might expect that his
name would have been handed down to posterity as one of the
greatest benefactors of mankind. The discovery was, however,

most likely made by one so engaged in maritime enterprise that,
in his eyes, this application constituted its whole value ; and it
is not improbable that, being for some time kept secret, it may
have been the principal cause of the success of many enterprises
attributed to the superior skill and bravery of the leaders. The
knowledge of this property of the magnet, though gradually
diffused, would long be guarded with jealousy by those who
justly viewed it as of the highest advantage in their predatory
Ifor commercial excursions ; and this perhaps, the cause of the
obscurity in which the subject          is
                                              is,
                                        veiled.               the discovery                        is

European, there no people, from the character of their early
enterprises, and, may add, from the nature of the rocks of
         ;

                 I is

                                    is
their country, more likely to have made than the early Nor
                                                          it

wegians and as there                    reason for believing that they were
acquainted with the directive property of the loadstone at least
half a century earlier than its use supposed to have been
                                        it
                                             is
known in other parts of Europe, may be but justice to allow
them the honour of having been the discoverers. Whether the
discovery was made in Asia or in Europe, in the North or in
the South, am not, however, now called upon to decide, but
         I

to point out the consequences which have followed that disco

very by unveiling gradually phaenomena, though less striking,
yet equally interesting, and some even more difficult of expla

nation.
These phaenomena are, the variation of the magnetic needle,
with its annual and diurnal changes the dip of the needle and
                                        ;
                                                                 ;

                                                                                                ;
the intensity of the  muangdneertictwfoorcheeaodfst,h--e  earth which are, how
                                                          The Direction and the
ever, all comprised
Intensity of the terrestrial magnetic force.
106 THIRD REPORT 1833.

I. The Direction of the Terrestrial Magnetic Force.

   1. The Variation of the Needle. -- For some centuries after

the directive property of the loadstone was discovered, it was

generally supposed that the needle pointed correctly towards
the pole of the heavens. It has however been said, on the
authority of a letter by Peter Adsiger,                                                the variation of
the needle was known as early as 1269;                                         that
                                                                               and     if we fully admit

the authenticity of this letter, we must allow that the writer
was at that date not only aware of the fact, but that he had
observed the extent of the deviation of the needle from the
meridian*. It is possible that such an observation as this
may have been made at this early period by an individual de
voting his time to the examination of magnetical phaenomena ;

   * This curious and highly interesting letter, dated the 8th of August 1269,
is contained in a volume of manuscripts in the Library of the University of
                                    :Ca"vTaallkoe                for having    published extracts from it.
Leyden, and we are indebted     to                                notice that  the magnet (stone), as well
The variation is thus referred  to                                           A I it,

as the needle that has been touched (rubbed) by does not point exactly to';itis
the poles but that part of which reckoned to point to the south declines a
little to the west, and that part which looks towards the north inclines as much
to the east. The exact quantity of this declination have found, after numer

ous experiments, to be five degrees. However, this declination                                    is  no obstacle

to our guidance, because we make the needle itself decline from the true south
by nearly one point and an half towards the west.
dItegisrecees.rta(inLleytteexrtroafoPredtienrarAyd,sigesor,  Cavallo                  point, then, contains five
                                                             clear an                   London
                           a                                           On Magnetism,   deviation  1o8f0t0h,epn. e3e1d7le.)
                                                                       account of the
                             if
from the meridian as this, was communicated to any one by the person who had
himself observed that deviation, that for more than two centuries afterwards we

should have no record of second observation of the fact. This alone would
throw doubt on the authenticity of the letter, and the estimate given of the
variation may appear to confirm these doubts for, according to the period of
                                                                          ;

change which best agrees with the observations during more than two hundred
years, the variation,      observed, would have been found to be westerly instead
of easterly in 1269.   if
                         It may however be urged, that as the whole period of
change has not yet elapsed since observations were made, we are not in pos
session of a sufficient number of facts to authorize us to draw conclusions re

specting the variation at such an early date and also, that the letter be spu;         it if
rious, or the original date have been altered to that which bears, this or the
fabrication can only have been for the purpose of founding claims in consequence
of the contents of this letter and as no such claims have been advanced, there
appears no motive either for fabrication or alteration. In preceding part of
the letter the author gives methods for finding the poles of loadstone and
    ;                                                                                  a

                   it ;                                                                 Ia
                            is                                                                                     ;
certainly the direction of the axis could not be determined to within five degrees
by either of these so that, as regards the loadstone, we may, think, conclude
that the author did not make the observation. As matter of curious history
                                                                             a

connected with magnetism,                                    desirable that either the authenticity of this

letter should be clearly established, or reasons given for doubting                                   it,  by those

who have an opportunity of consulting the original.
               REPORT ON THE MAGNETISM OF THE EARTH.                          107

and as it is probable that for some time subsequent to the dis
covery of the directive property of the needle the deviation in
Europe was not of sufficient magnitude to have been easily de
tected by means of the rude instruments then in use, it may
very likely be owing to this circumstance that we have not
earlier records of the variation*. That Columbus, the most
scientific navigator of his age, when he commenced his career
of discovery, and undertook to show the western route to India,
was not aware of is
                    clear, since the discovery during his first
voyage has been attributed to him. However, although Coit,
lumbus may have noticed that the needle did not in every situait it is
tion point due north, and Adsiger, long before him, may even
have rudely obtained the amount of its deviation, the first obit
servations of the variation on which any reliance can be placed
appear to have been made about the middle of the sixteenth
century, and shortly afterwards was well known that the va
                  same in all places  it
riation not the§.                     the       Needle. -- When       J,      was
   2. Change inis the Direction of       it f.
first determined by observation, about 1541, that the needle              it
did not point to the pole of the earth, was found that this vari
ation from the meridian, at Paris, was about 7° or 8° towards
the east. In 1550 was observed 8° or 9° east; and in

1580, 11^° east. Norman appears to have been the first who
observed the variation with any degree of accuracy in Lon
don. He states that he observed to be 11° 15' east but he
                                      it

was not aware that  does not remain constant in the same
               In 1580, Burough found the variation at Limehouse
place

to be 11£° or 11£° east||, and his observations appear to be

· Another reason why the variation was not earlier observed may be that the
natural magnet was first used for the purposes of navigation, and its directive
line was that which pointed to the pole star. As was therefore considered
                                          ;

                                              it

                                                          I

                                                                       of
                                                                                 it
that the natural magnet indicated the direction of the meridian, and was

found that a needle touched by had the directive power, when the needle was
                 was assumed that this also pointed in the meridian.
introduced   it

it , t  The New Attractive, by Robert Norman, chap. ix. London 1596.
        Ibid. No date given for this observation but from the circumstance of
Burough referring to Norman's book in the preface to his Discourse the Va
             the Compasse, dated 1581, (the copy of this to which have access
riation  of

was printed in 1596, but the Bodleian Library contains one printed in 1581,)
  would appear that there must have been an earlier edition of Norman's book
than that of 1596, and that his observations must have been made before 1581.

Bond, Philosophical Transactions, vol. viii. p. 6066, gives 1576 as the date of

Norm"anA'ns doabsltehrvoautgiohnst.his variation of the needle be found in travaile to be divers
and changeable, yet at anie land or fixed place assigned,II S
                                                           is itremaineth alwaies

one, still permanent and abiding." New Attractive, chap. ix.
        The mean of his observations, which do not differ 20', 11° 19' cast.
     108 THIRD REPORT 1833.

     entitled to much confidence ; but he was of the same opinion
     as Norman with respect to the constancy of the variation*.
     Gunter, in 1612, found the variation in London to be 5° 36'
                                                              Dorf.W" tahle-
     east; and Gellibrand, in  1633, observed it 4° 4' east.
     lis considers Gellibrand  to have been the discoverer
     fvariation of the variation ;" but if Gunter had any confidence
     in his own observations and those of Burough, he must have
     been aware of the change in the variation. In 1630, Petit
     found the variation at Paris to be 4^° east, but suspected, at
     the time, that the earlier observations there had been incorrect;

     and it was not until 1660, when he found the variation to be
     only 10' east, that he was satisfied of the change of the varia
     tion. About ten years later, Azaut, at Rome, where the va
     riation had been observed 8° east, found it to be more than 2°

     west; and Hevelius, who at Dantzick in 1642 had found it to

     be 3° 5' west, now found it to be 7° 20' west.
        3. Diurnal Change in the Variation. -- This was discovered

     in 1722 by Graham, to whose talents and mechanical skill
     science is so deeply indebted. He found that with several
     needles, on the construction of which much care had been be

     stowed, the variation was not always the same ; and at length
     determined that the variation was different at different hours

     in the day, the greatest westerly variation occurring between
     noon and four hours after, and the least about six or seven

     o'clock in the evening J. Wargentin at Stockholm in 1750,

     and Canton in London from 1756 to 1759, more particularly
     observed this phenomenon ; and the latter determined that
     the time of minimum westerly variation in London was between
     eight and nine in the morning, and the time of maximum be

     tween one and two in the afternoon. Canton likewise deter

     mined in 1759, that the daily variation was different at different

     times in the year, the maximum change occurring about the end
     of June, and the minimum in December §. Cassini, during more
     than five years and a half, namely, from May 1783 to January
     1789, carefully observed, at particular hours, the direction of a
     needle suspended in the Observatory at Paris ; and although
     he does not correctly state the course of the daily variation,

     overlooking altogether the second maximum west, and the pro
     gress of the needle towards the east in the early part of the

        · " For considering it remayneth alwaies constant without alteration in every
     severall place, there is hope it may be reduced into method and rule." Dis

     course, chap. x.

        t Philosophical Transactions, 1701, vol. xxii. p. 1036.

        t Ibid. 1724, vol. xxxiii. p. 96.
        § Ibid. 1759, vol. xli. p. 398.

--V
REPORT ON THE MAGNETISM OF THE EARTH.                                                                              109

morning *, yet his observations and remarks are of great value

as pointing out the annual oscillations of the needle f. Since

this, the diurnal variation has been very generally observed,
but by no one with greater care and perseverance than by the
lateInCoorldoenreltoBedaeutefromyinJ.e whether the course of the diurnal va
riation is influenced by the elevation of the place of observation,
the zealous and indefatigable De Saussure undertook a series
of observations on the Col du Geant, nearly 1 1 ,300 feet above
the level of the sea. This series, after incurring much personal
inconvenience and even risk in that region of snow and of storms,
he completed ; and he has compared the results with observa
tions which he made immediately before and after at Chamouni
and Geneva. From this comparison it appears that the course
of the diurnal variation was nearly the same on one of the
highest mountains, in a deep and narrow valley at its foot, and
in the middle of a plain or of a large valley. The times of the

maxima, east and west, are in each case nearly those previously
determined by Canton, these maxima occurring rather later on
the Col du Geant than at the other stations. Excluding in all

cases the results where extraordinary causes appear to have
operated, the extent of the diurnal variation at Chamouni ex
ceeds that at Geneva and also that on the Col, the two latter
being very nearly the same. The observations, however, are,
as Saussure very justly remarks, much too limited to give cor

rect means §.                        Needle. --Norman having                                             found

  5. The Dip of the Magnetic
with different needles, and with one in particular on the con
struction of which he had bestowed much pains, that although

perfectly balanced on the centre previously to being touched
by the magnet, after this operation the north end always de
clined below the horizon, devised an instrument by which he

f· Journal de Physique, Mai 1792, torn. xL p. 345.                                            Ibid. p. 348.
J Many of the results of Colonel Beaufoy 's observations are published in the
Edinburgh PhilosophicalJournal, vols. i. ii. iii. iv. and vii.
                                                                                                     As Saussure
    § Saussure,   Voyages dans les Alpes, torn- iv. p. 302                       au     p.    312.
does not give
                 the mean results, I insert them here.

                 Time of absolute maximum. Time of second maximum.                            Extent of  Elevation
                                                                                               diurnal   above the
                                                                                               change.
                 East.      West.                                         East.  West.

                 hm         ill                                           m                                 Feet.
                 7 56 a.m.  09 i-.M                                       26 P.M. 11 17 P.M.               1305
                                                                          44 10 46
                     34     41                                                                            3453
                     09     00                                            51 10 17
Geneva           ...j                                                                         15 42      11274
Chamouni             87                                                                       17 06
Col du Geant                                                                                  15 43
                                             2 1 1h
                                                                  5 7 6h
110 THIRD REPORT 1833.

could determine the inclination of the needle to the plane of the
horizon*. The figure given of the instrument is sufficiently
rude, but the principles of its construction, as stated by Nor
man, are correct. With this instrument he found the inclina
tion of the needle to the horizon in London to be about 71° 5&',
but gives no date to the observation, though Bond assigns 1576

fas the time . Although in a theoretical point of view it would

be desirable to have so early a record of the dip, particularly as
subsequent observations lead us to suppose that the dip attained
its maximum after this time, yet, considering the uncertainty
attending such observations, even with the present improved
instruments, we cannot place much confidence in this result,
however we may rely upon the author having used every pre
caution in his power to ensure accuracy. Having determined
the dip of the needle in London, Norman states that this de
clining of the needle will be found to be different at different

places on the earth J, though he does not take a correct view

of the subject, for he considers that the needle will always be
dir5e.cteVdaritaotwioanrdsofathfeixDedip.p--oinSt.ubsequent observations by Bond,
Graham, Cavendish, and Gilpin, and the more recent ones in
our own time, have shown that the inclination of the needle to
the horizon at the same place, like the angle which it makes
with the meridian, is subject to change ; but the diurnal oscil
lations of the direction are of too minute a character to have
been ascertained with the imperfect instruments which we

possess.

   This is an outline of the phaenomena hitherto observed, de
pending upon the direction of the forces acting upon the needle.
Various attempts have been made to account for those obser
vable at fixed points on the earth's surface at different periods,

and also to connect those depending on the different positions

of the places of observation, but hitherto with only very partial

Isuccess. It is not my intention to enter into a detailed history

of these attempts, but may briefly notice some of the most

remarkable.

   To Gilbert we are indebted not only for the first clear views
of the principles of magnetism, but of their application to the
phaenomenon of the directive power of the needle ; and indeed
we may say that, with the exception of the recent discoveries,

all that has been done since, in magnetism, has for its foundation
the principles which he established by experiment §. He con

· New Attractive, chap. iii. iv.
t Philosophical Transactions, 1673, vol. viii. p. 6066.
X New Attractive, chap. vii.      § Gilbert, De Magnete, S.c. Lond. 1600.
REPORT ON THE MAGNETISM OF THE EARTH.                                           Ill

sidered that the earth acts upon a magnetized bar, and upon
iron, like a magnet, the directive power of the needle being due
to the action of magnetism of a contrary kind to that at the
end of the needle directed towards the pole of the earth. He
applied the term "pole" to the ends of the needle directed
towards the poles of the earth, according to the view he had
taken of terrestrial magnetism, designating the end pointing
towards the north, as the south pole of the needle, and that point
ing towards the south, as its north pole *. It is to be regretted
that some English philosophers, guided by less correct views,
have since his time applied these terms in the reverse sense,
which occasionally introduces some ambiguity, though now they
are used in this country, as on the Continent, in the sense ori
ginally given to them by Gilbert.

   In 1668 Bond published a Table of computed variations in
London, for every year, from that time to the year 1716f . The
variations in this Table agree nearly with those afterwards ob

Iserved for about twenty-five years, beyond which time they

differ very widely ; and only notice this Table as the first em
pirical attempt at the solution of a problem which is, as yet,
unsolved. Bond afterwards proposed to account for the change
in the variation and dip of the needle by the motion of two
magnetic poles about the poles of the earth. He professed not
only to give the period of this motion, but to be able to point
out its cause, and even proposed to determine the longitude
by means of the dip +. He, however, did not make public either
his methods or his views ; but with regard to the longitude, it
is probable they were the same as those afterwards adopted by

Churchman.

   Halley considered that the direction of the needle at different
places on the earth's surface might be explained on the suppo
sition that the earth had four magnetic poles §, and that the
change in the direction at the same place was due to the motion
of two of these poles about the axis of the earth, the other two
being fixed. He does not enter into any calculations to show
the accordance of the phaenomena with such an hypothesis, but
conjectures that the period of revolution of these poles is about

700 years || .
    Since this time, calculations have been made by various au

thors, both on the hypothesis of two magnetic poles and on
that of four, with the view of comparing the results of these

* Gilbert, De Magnete, Sfc, lib. i. cap. iv.
t Philosophical Transactions, 1668, vol. iii. p. 789.
X Ibid. 1673, vol. viii. p. 6065.             § Ibid. 1683, vol. xiii. p. 208.
|| Ibid. 1692, vol. xvii. p. 503.
112 THIRD REPORT 1833.

hypotheses with actual observation. The most recent attempt
of this kind is that by Professor Hansteen. He adopts Halley's
hypothesis of four magnetical poles, but considers that they all
revolve, and in different periods, the northern poles from west
to east, and the southern ones from east to west. The results

calculated on this hypothesis agree pretty nearly with the ob
servations with which they are compared ; but as considerable

uncertainty attends magnetical observations, excepting those
of the variation made at fixed observatories, and especially the
early ones of the dip and variation, on which the periods of the
poles and their intensities must so much depend, it would cer

Iftainly be premature to say that such an hypothesis satisfactorily
explains the phenomena of terrestrial magnetism.         we admit

that the progressive changes which take place in the direction
of the needle are due to the rotation of these poles, we must
look to the oscillations of the same poles for the cause of the
diurnal oscillation of the needle. Any hypothesis which by
means of two or more magnetic poles will thus connect the
phaenomena of magnetism, is of great advantage, however un
able we may be to give a reason for the particular positions of
the poles, or for their revolution.                      Hansteen refers these to
the agency of the sun and moon.
Without assigning any cause either for the direction of the
needle, or for the progressive change of that direction, attempts

Ihave been made to account for its diurnal oscillations. But

before taking a review of these, it is necessary that should
                                                         nature of the phenomenon.
state  mI ocreannpoatrtidcuolabrelyttetrhethparencisbey  referring to the results de

This

duced from Canton's observations*. From these it appears
that in London, during the twenty-four hours, a double oscilla
tion of the needle takes place, the absolute maximum west

happening about half-past one in the afternoon, and the abso
lute maximum east, that is, the minimum west, about nine in
the morning; besides which there was another maximum east
about nine in the evening, and a maximum west near midnight

or very early in the morning, the two latter maxima being small
compared with the absolute maxima. Colonel Beaufoy's very
extensive series of observations, made when the variation was

between 24° and 25° west, (Canton's having been made when
it was 19°,) give nearly the same results, the absolute maxima
happening somewhat earlier, and the second maxima west

about eleven in the evening.
Canton explained the westerly motion of the needle in the

· Philosophical Transaction*, 1753, p. 398, and 1827, pp. 333, 334.
           REPORT ON THE MAGNETISM OF THE EARTH.                                                                               113

latter part of the morning, and the subsequent easterly motion,
by supposing that the heat of the sun acted upon the northern
parts of the earth as upon a magnet, by weakening their in
fluence, but offered no explanation of the morning easterly mo
tion of the needle.
Oersted's discovery of the influence of the closed voltaic
circuit upon the magnetic needle, and the consequent discoveries
of Davy, Ampere and Arago, immediately led to the considera
tion, whether all the phaenomena of terrestrial magnetism were
not due to electric currents; and the discovery of Seebeck, that
electric currents are
powers of conducting    excited when   ciotmnitseatceatml,s --inehwnathvlyiicnhgendtdisiitcflfeoedvr,eenr--yt
with but few holds the
                        heat are in
                        rank to which
pointed to a probable source for the existence of such currents.
At the conclusion of a highly interesting paper on the develop
ment of electro-magnetism by heat, Professor Cumming re
marks that "magnetism, and that to a considerable extent, it
appears, is excited by the unequal distribution of heat amongst
metallic, and possibly amongst other bodies. Is it improbable
that the diurnal variation of the needle, which follows the
course of the sun, and therefore seems to depend upon heat,
may result from the metals, and other substances which com
           surface of
pose the               the earth,   being unequally   heated,    an"d                                                     con
sequently   suffering  a change    in their magnetic  influence
                                                                   ?                                                      And

in the second part of a paper, detailing some thermo-magnetical
experiments, read before the Royal Society of Edinburgh,
Dr. Traill considers "that the disturbance of the equilibrium
of the temperature of our planet, by the continual action of the
                    eianrttehrtirnotopicaavl asrtegtihoenrsm, o-amnadgnoeftictheapppoalraartuisce:s",
sun's  rays on its
must   convert the
and "that the disturbance of the equilibrium of temperature,
Ieven in stony strata, may elicit some degree of magnetism*."

iPIftrendvoiditoutnhsoet,toohnoltywhiescv,aeurs, eh,aapisdpethaaerdoptprotinemdciep,tahtlehoaont peainoniyfotnhoefthdtahateilyteexmvpapereirairmtaioteunnretsf,.
hitherto made bore directly on the subject, since the metals
producing electric currents by their unequal conduction of heat
were only in contact at particular parts, and in no case had
such currents been excited         by different            having their
surfaces symmetrically united       throughout.  metals    consequence

                                                   I in
instituted a series of experiments with two metals so united,

and found that electric currents were still excited on the

· Transactions of the Philosophical Society of Cambridge,  vol.                                                           64.
     Philosophical Transactions, 1823, p. 392.

183a.
t
                                       i

                                                                                                                 ii.
                                                                                                                      p.
114 THIRD REPORT 1833.

application of heat, the phaenomena corresponding to magnetic
                              tdhieresectioenxpweriitmh ernetfsereIncedretwo  the place
polarization in a particular                                                   the con
of greatest heat*. From
clusion that one part of the earth, with the atmosphere, being
more heated than another, two magnetic poles, or rather elec
tric currents producing effects referrible to such poles, would
be formed on each side of the equator, poles of different names
being opposed to each other on the contrary sides of the equa
tor; and that different points in the earth's equator becoming
successively those of greatest heat, these poles would be carried
round the axis of the earth, and would necessarily cause a de

viation in the horizontal needle f. On comparing experimentally

the effects that would result from the revolution of such poles

with the diurnal deviations at London, as observed by Canton
and Beaufoy, also with those observed by Lieut. Hood at Fort
                           finally with the late  Captain Foster's            at Port
EBnotweerpnr,isIe,    and   a close agreement     in all cases in the
                    found                                                     general
character of the phaenomena, and that the times of the maxima
Ieast and west did not differ greatly in the several cases. The

double oscillation of the needle, to which have referred in
ICanton's and Beaufoy's observations, clearly resulted from this

view of the subject. Some of the experiments to which have
referred showed that when heat was applied to a globe, the
electric currents excited were such, that on contrary sides of
the equator the deviations of the end of the needle of the

same name as the latitude were at the same time always in the
same direction, either both towards east or both towards west.
INo observations having at that time been made on the diurnal

variation of the needle in a high southern latitude, considered
"that the agreement of the theoretical results with such ob
servations would be almost decisive of the correctness of the
theory." Captain Foster's observations at Cape Horn, South
Shetland, and the Cape of Good Hope, show most decidedly
that in the southern hemisphere the diurnal deviations of the
south end of the needle correspond very precisely with those of
Ithe north end in the northern hemisphere ; and most fully bear

me out in the view which had taken. These valuable obser
Ivations have been placed in my                   by His Royal                Highness
                                 hands            Royal Society,
the President, and the Council                                                and I in
                                 of the
Itend, when have sufficient leisure, rigidly to compare them,

and likewise those to which have already referred in the
northern hemisphere, with the diurnal deviations that would

  · "Theory of the Diurnal Variation of the Magnetic Needle," Philosophical
Traniactiom, 1827, pp. 321, 326.

  t Ibid. pp. 327, 328.
REPORT ON0 THE MAGNETISM OF THE EARTH.                         115

Iresult at the corresponding places on the earth's surface, on

the supposition that such electric currents as have supposed
are excited on contrary sides of the equator, in consequence of
different parts on the earth's surface becoming successively the
places of greatest heat, during its revolution upon its axis.

IIShould there be found in these results that accordance which

have reason to expect, there will, think, be no doubt that the
diurnal deviation of the needle is due to electric currents excited
Iby the heat of the sun.

      have already adverted to the hypotheses of two or more
                  of  which attempts have been
poles, by means   of  terrestrial magnetism, and  mIadme ayto   explain
the phenomena     admit the existence of such poles, we        now re

mark, that if we                                               must be

careful not to consider the magnetic meridians as great circles :
they are unquestionably curves of double curvature. Nor must
Ifwe consider these poles to be, like the poles of a magnet, cen
tres of force not far removed from the surface.   such centres
of force exist for the whole surface of the earth, the experi
Imental determinations of the magnetic force at different places,

to which shall shortly advert, at least show that they cannot
be far removed from the centre of figure.
In the delineation of magnetic charts, more attention has
Ihitherto been paid to the Halleyan lines, or lines of equal varia

tion, than to any others ; and am not disposed to undervalue
charts where such lines alone are exhibited : to the navigator they
Ifare of the greatest value ; but they throw little light on the phae
nomena in general.    the meridians were correctly represented,
they would at least indicate clearly their points of convergence, if
such in all cases exist ; but the lines that would be most likely to
guide us to a true theory of terrestrial magnetism, are the nor
mals to the direction of the needle. If, as is highly probable,
the direction of the needle is due to electric currents circulating
either in the interior or near the surface of the earth, these
normals would represent the intersection of the planes of the
currents with the surface of the earth ; and, by their delineation,
we should have exhibited in one view the course of the currents
and the physical features by which that course may be modified,
so that any striking correspondences which may exist, would

Ibe immediately seized, and lead to important conclusions.

Changes of temperature consider to be the principal cause of
the diurnal changes in the direction of the needle : and if any
connexion exist between these electric currents and climate,
we are to expect that the curvature of these normal lines will
be influenced by the forms, the extent and direction of the con
tinents or seas over which theiy3pass, and also by the height,
ll(j THIRD REPORT -- 1833.

direction and extent of chains of mountains, and probably by
their geological structure.
   These normal lines may, to a certain extent, agree with the
lines of equal dip, which have already been delineated upon
some charts. In Churchman's charts they are represented in
the positions they would have on Euler's hypothesis of the earth
having two magnetic poles. The only use, however, of such
hypothetical representations is, that by comparison with actual
observation they become tests of the correctness of the theory,
or they may point out the modifications which it requires, in
order that it may accord with observation. In Professor Hans-
teen's chart the lines of equal dip are projected from observa

Itions reduced to the year 1780. Considering how very deficient

we are, even now, in correct observations of the dip, should
not be disposed to place much reliance upon the accuracy of
these lines, particularly where they cross great extents of sea
affording no points of land necessary for observations of the dip.

Of these lines of equal dip the most important is the magnetic
equator, or that line on the earth at which the dipping needle
would be horizontal. The observations giving this result can
of course be but few, and are therefore very inadequate for the
correct representation of this line. In order to obviate this
difficulty, M. Morlet made use of all observations not very re
mote from the equator, determining the distance of that line
from the place of observation by means of the law, that the
tangent of the magnetic latitude is half the tangent of the dip,
which is derived from the hypothesis of two magnetic poles near
to the centre of the earth. By this means the position of the

equator was determined throughout its whole extent ; and a
surprising agreement was found between the determinations of
each point by means of different observations, which shows
that, within certain limits near the equator, the hypothesis very
correctly represents the observations. This line exhibits in
flections in its course which have been attributed, and probably
with justice, to the physical constitution of the surface in their
vicinity*. It has been considered also that a general resem
blance exists between the isothermal lines and the lines of equal
fdipAollnththeelinseusrfatcoewohficthheI
earth .                                   referred  have  been  hitherto
have here

represented on a plane, either on the stereographical, the glo
bular, or Mercator's projection. Mr. Barlow has, however,
very lately represented the lines of equal variation on a globe,
from a great mass of the most recent documents connected with

· Biot, Traiti de Physique.
t Hansteen, Edinburgh Philosophical Journal, vol. iii. p. 127.
          REPORT ON THE MAGNETISM OF THE EARTH.                             117

the variation, furnished to              him by the  IAfdtmo itrhaeltyli,netsheofEeaqsut aIlndviaa
Company, and from other                  sources.

riation were added the magnetic meridians and their normals,
the isodynamic lines, with those of equal dip, such a globe would
form the most complete representation of facts connected with
terrestrial magnetism that has ever been exhibited, and might
indicate relations which have hitherto been overlooked.

   Having discovered  rothtaattioanp, eIcuwlaiasr  polarity is imparted to  iron
by the simple act of                               led to consider whether   the
principal phenomenon of terrestrial magnetism is not, in a great
measure, due to its rotation. The subsequent discovery by
Arago, that analogous effects take place during the rotation of
all metals, and Faraday's more recent discovery, that electrical
currents are not only excited during the motion of metals, but

that such currents are transmitted by them, render such an

opinion not improbable. It is, however, to be remarked, that,
in all these cases, motion alone is not the cause of the effects

produced ; but that these effects are due to electricity induced
in the body by its motion in the neighbourhood of a magnetized
body. If, then, electrical currents are excited in the earth in
consequence of its rotation, we must look to some body exterior
to the earth for the inducing cause. The magnetic influence
aanttdribtuhteedefbfeyctMowrhicichhiniI  and Mrs. Somerville to the violet ray,
                                         found to be produced on a magnetized
needle when vibrated in sunshine, and which appeared not to
admit of explanation without attributing such influence to the

sun's rays, might appear to point to the sun as the inducing
body. The experiments, however, of Morichini and Mrs. So
merville, have not succeeded on repetition ; and in a recent re
          of   Imy own experiments, in a vacuum, by Mr.
petition                                                  ISnhoawd
Harris,   the  effects which observed were not detected.

found that the effects produced on an unmagnetized steel needle
differed from those produced on a similar needle when magnet
ized, and therefore considered that the idea of these effects
being independent of magnetism was precluded; but Mr. Har
ris's results may possibly be considered to indicate that they
were due solely to currents of air excited by the sun's rays.
These circumstances render it doubtful whether the sun's rays
               magnetic influence independent of their
possess   any  besides this, supposing such influence to  ehxeiastti,ngif
power ;   but
electric currents were induced in the earth during its rotation,
they would be nearly at right angles to the equator, and would
therefore cause a magnetized needle to place itself nearly per

pendicular to the meridians, or parallel to the equator.
   Although it would therefore appear that the rotation of the
118 THIRD REPORT -- 1833.

earth is not the cause of its magnetism, yet it is highly pro
bable, from Mr. Faraday's experiments *, that, magnetism ex
isting in the earth independently of electrical currents may
                                                        it,

                                                                                        :

                                                                              it

                                                                                                       ;
be produced, not only by the earth's rotation, but by the motion
of the waters on its surface, and even by that of the atmosphere
so that the direction and intensity of the magnetic forces would
be modified by the influence of these currents.
This subject at present involved in obscurity still, consi
                    a                                                   within a few
ydeearrins,g--haolwl             amany have been thediscoveries made
                      bearing more or less          directly upon it,  --thougdohesnonnoet
                                   is
afford complete explanation of the phaenomena,
appear unreasonable to expect that we are not far removed from
a point where few steps shall place us beyond the mist in which
we are now enveloped.
   Mr. Fox, having observed effects attributable to the electri
city of metalliferous veins, appears disposed to refer some of
the phaenomena of terrestrial magnetism to electrical cur
rents existing in these veins but although we should not be
                                       f;
                                                    I
warranted in denying the existence of these currents, indepen
dently of the wires made use of in Mr. Fox's experiments, or
even their influence on the needle, yet think we should be

cautious in drawing conclusions from these experiments                 a it J.

I       II. Intensity of the Terrestrial Magnetic Force.                        al

     have as yet said little on the intensity of the terrestrial maga
netic forces. Graham, after having discovered the daily varia
tion of the needle, suspected that the force which urges varies
not only in direction, but also in intensity. He made great
variety of observations with dipping needle, but drew no ge
neral conclusion from his results. Indeed, with the instruments
then in use, he was not likely to determine that which has
most escaped detection with instruments of more accurate con
struction, for the diurnal variation of the whole magnetic force
may perhaps still be considered doubtful. Later observations,
particularly those of Professor Hansteen, have shown that the
time of vibration of a horizontal needle varies during the day,
from which was inferred that the horizontal force also varies.
Professor Hansteen, by this means, found that the horizontal
intensity of terrestrial magnetism has diurnal variation, de-
X                                         p.
                                                          a
               it
                                                        f
· Philosophical Transactions, 1832, 176.                     ^id. 1&30, .p 407.
Mr. Henwood informs me that he has repeated the experiments of Mr.
Fox in from forty to fifty places not before experimented on, and that he pro
                                        As far as                                   that his
poses greatly extending them.          deductions,  he  can yet see, he considers  the elec
results go to confirm Mr. Fox's                          suppose with regard to
                                                    --
                                                    I

tricity of metalliferous veins.
              REPORT ON THE MAGNETISM OF THE EARTH.                          1 19

creasing, at Christiana, until ten or eleven o'clock in the morn

ing, when it attains its minimum, and then increases until four
or five o'clock after noon, when it appeared to reach its maxi
mum*. By observing, at different times of the day, the direc
tion of a horizontal needle thrown nearly at right angles to the
meridian, by the action of two powerful magnets, placed in the
meridian, passing through its centre, after correcting the ob
              for  the effect of                                 of
servations    the   force of the                       changes       temperature on the in
                                                       magnets,   I  found that at Woolwich
tensity of
the terrestrial horizontal intensity decreased until 10h 30m a.m.,
when it reached its minimum, and increasing from that time,
attained its maximum about 7h 30?* p.M.f. This agreement, in
results obtained by totally independent methods, removes all
doubt respecting the diurnal variation of the horizontal force.
The difference in the time of the maximum in the two cases
may be accounted for, independently of the difference in the
variation at the two places of observation, by the circumstance
that no correction for the effect of temperature on the time of
vibration is made in Professor Hansteen's observation. As no

such correction had hitherto been made, it must have been con

sidered that differences in the temperature at which observations
were made had little influence on the intensity of the vibrating
I Jneedle ; but in the communication containing these observations,
   pointed out the necessity of such a correction                     ; and   since
then, in deducing the terrestrial intensity from the                 times
                                                                             of vi

· Edinburgh Philosophical Journal, vol. iv. p. 297.
  t Philosophical Transactions,                      1825, pp. 50 & 57. An inconvenience attending
the method which I employed                            that the observations require correction for
    ;                                                                it
                            is
                                                                              a
                                           a
                                                  is,                         is It a
temperature which not very readily applied, as will he seen by referring to my
paper but this might in great measure be obviated, by rendering the tempera      is, I I
ture of the magnets employed always the same previous to observation. If, how                                    ;
ever, in order to retain the needle in its position nearly at right angles to the me
ridian, torsion were applied instead of the repulsive forces of magnets, the correc
tion for temperature would be nearly reduced to that due to the effects produced
                                 ;
                                          by
on the intensity of the needle itself changes of temperature. But even this
method not without objection for the sensibility of the needle depending
    if

          is
upon the number of circles of torsion requisite to bring into the proper posi
tion, a wire were employed, unless very long, its elasticity would be impaired
by more than two or three turns; and                           doubtful whether filament of glass
                                                       it
                                                           is

of moderate length would bear more than this without fracture.       had pro
posed to the late Captain Foster, previous to his last voyage, that he should de
termine the horizontal intensity at different stations, and also its diurnal changes
by  this method, and had balance of torsion constructed for him for the purpose
but as the instrument extremely troublesome in its adjustments, consider
that the many other observations which he had to make did not allow him timeit

                         is a
for the extensive use of this instrument which he had proposed.          however,
very desirable that should be ascertained how far this method        applicable.

X   Philotophical Transactions, 1S25.
120                THIRD REPORT-- 1833.

bration of a needle, it has been customary to apply a correction
for differences in the temperatures at which the observations

may have been made.

   The horizontal intensity varying during the day, it becomes
a question whether this arises from a change alone in the direc
tion of the force, or whether this change of direction is not
accompanied by a change in the intensity of the whole force.

IIn a communication to the Philosophical Society of Cambridge *,
   suggested that deviations, from whatever cause, in the direc
tion of the horizontal needle, were referrible to the deviations
which, under the same circumstances, would take place in the

direction of the dipping needle. Adopting these views, Captain
Foster infers, from observations made by him at Port Bowen,
on the corresponding times of vibration of a dipping needle,
supported on its axis and suspended horizontally, that the diur

nal change in the horizontal intensity is due principally, if not

wholly, to a small change in the amount of the dip. The observa
tions, however, do not indicate that the force in the direction of

the dip is constant. Captain Foster's observations at Spitzber-
genf show, more decidedly, the diurnal variation of this force :
there, its maximum intensity appears to have occurred at about
3h 30m a.m., and the minimum at 2h 47m p.m. ; its greatest change

amounting to ^ of its mean value. The maximum horizontal

intensity appears to have occurred a little after noon, and the
minimum nearly an hour after midnight ; but there is consider

able irregularity in the changes which it undergoes. It would,
however, appear, from these observations, that the variations in

the absolute intensity were in opposition to those in the hori
zontal resolved part of it ; so that the principal cause of the
latter variations                                  a change in the dip
Captain Foster     comnsuidset rsha"vethabteetnhe  times of the day when  itself.
                                                                          these

changes are the greatest and least, point clearly to the sun as

the primary agent in the production of them ; and that this
agency is such as to produce a constant inflection of the pole

IfftureorocwnmtaaraldtcvshcaeortrihdeaeaxtipnosecnuernimodwfeunittrthhsinegtnohenetheedvclhoetinwcJche,lunastIsiyof-nIofsouhunarddIehdsohhauotdrhwse.n"ptrhethevTaioohtruyiissflyoitsfhetidnhredapiuewdrrin

nal variation of the needle arise from the cause which have
t·
     a
                  it,

                       of
                               it
                                                      is
                                                     it

                                                              +of
assigned for the dip ought to be a maximum, in northern la
titudes, nearly when the sun on the south magnetic meridian,

and minimum when has passed about 130°.

     Transactions  the Philosophical Society                       Cambridge, 1820.
                                                                   Ibid. 1827, pp, 345, 349.
     Philosophical Transactions, 1828. .
                    REPORT ON THE MAGNETISM OF THE EARTH.        121

   Humboldt was the first who determined that the intensity of
the whole magnetic force is different at different positions on
the earth's surface. Having made observations on the times of
vibration of the same dipping needle, at various stations in the
vicinity of the equator, and approaching to the northern pole,
he found that the intensity of the terrestrial force decreases in
approaching the equator ; but no precise law, according to which
the intensity depends upon the distance from the equator, can
be determined from these observations. Numberless observa
tions have since been made in both hemispheres, with every
precaution to ensure accuracy in the results, but they do not in
general accord with the theoretical formulae with which they

have been compared.

   On the hypothesis of two magnetic poles not far removed

Ifrom the centre of the earth, if 8 represent the dip, X the mag

netic latitude of the place of observation, the intensity of the
force in the direction of the dip, and m a constant, then

                                    m
                              -3T --
                              4/(4I    sin2

                                                          + 8)'
                              tan =2 tan A;

and therefore,

                              I=£*/(3sin«A 1);

or the angular distance from the magnetic pole, or the
complement of the latitude,
iif

       is

                              1= cos* +
                              ^

                                V

                                        (3

                                           i

                                                       \).

By comparing his own observations with the first of these

"fordmecuilsaiev,e  Captain   Sabine came to the conclusion that they were
                     against
                              the supposed relation of the force to the ob

served dip, and equally so against any other relation whatso
ever, in which the respective phaenomena might be supposed to
vary in correspondence with each other."
however, with the last formula, he concludes                     tChoamt p"atrhiengactchoermd ,
ance of the experimental results with the general law proposed
for their representation, cannot be contemplated as otherwise
than most striking and remarkable." How the same set of
observations should be in remarkable accordance with the one
formula and at variance with the other, when these formulae are

dependent on each other,               difficult to conceive but the
                              it
                                  is

                                                                                               ;

                                                               I
conclusion drawn by Captain Sabine from his observations, at
least shows the danger of relying upon any single set of obser
vations as confirmatory or subversive of theoretical views.
122 THIRD REPORT -- 1833.

have not yet compared with these results of theory the numer
ous observations made by Captain Foster, both in the northern
and in the southern hemispheres ; but it is my intention to do

this as soon as I can determine what correction ought to be
Imade for the differences of temperature at the several stations:
   do not, however, anticipate any very close accordance.
In Captain Sabine's observations, the observed intensities,
compared with those deduced from the preceding formulae, are
in excess near the equator, and in defect near the pole ; and it
is not improbable that, as Mr. Barlow has suggested, this in
crease of magnetic action near the equator above that which
the theory gives, is due to the higher temperature in the equa
Itorial regions *.  am, however, disposed to assign even a more
Ipowerful influence than this to difference of temperature ; for
think it very possible, and indeed not improbable, that this may
be the primary cause of the polarity of the earth, although its
                be much modified by other circumstances. At
influence may   of the paper on the diurnal variation f, to which
the conclusion
I Ihave already referred, have suggested an experiment which
I Ithink might throw much light on this subject.             have pro
posed that a large copper sphere, of uniform thickness, should
be filled with bismuth, the two metals being in perfect contact
throughout, and that experiments should be made with it simi

Ilar to those which had made with one of smaller dimensions,
Ibut from which was unable to obtain any very definite results,
in consequence of the want of uniformity in the thickness of the
copper and in the contact of the two metals. On heating the
b--eqyuwcaeatpomsr aooyffiecsxeupc--ehcwtahtsihpcahhtemrceui,grrhtehtnetnsoptaorutfsnearlpoetuclyntrdriceitpthryeeswpeonolteusldthbebeeipnogelxaccroitioceleedsd,;
in which case the direction of those currents would decide whe
ther the experiment were illustrative of the principal phaenome-
non of terrestrial magnetism,     or not. Should     --thwesheicchuirsreimntpsroo-f
electricity be in the direction  of the meridians,

bable,  since in   this case  opposing currents would meet at  --the
poles,  and there   would be  no means of discharge for them,
I>
think we might then conclude that the magnetism of the earth
cannot be due to the difference in the temperature of its polar
             t·

                     a

                                   I if,

                                                                                                                1

                                                                                          it
and equatorial   regions ; but                   on  ththeeeqcuoanttorra, r--y,inthwe hcicuhrrecanstes
should be in    direction parallel               to

their action   uopfotnheammeraidginaentsi,ze--d  needle would be to urge in
the direction                                    should then say that, in order

to account for the terrestrial magnetic forces, and the diurnal

             Edinburgh New Philosophical Journal, July 827.
             Philosophical Transactions, 1827, p.. 354.
           REPORT ON THE MAGNETISM OF THE EARTH.                                                 123

changes in their direction and intensity, it would only be re
quired to show, that electrical phaenomena may be excited, in

Isuch bodies as the earth and the atmosphere, by a disturbance
in their temperature when in contact. As consider that if
                                         carefully made it must give conclusive
such an    Iexwpoeurilmdesnttronwgelrye  suggest to the Council of the British
results,             importance of having it
                      question whether the
Association the                                            made.                       of terrestrial
                                                           intensity
   It has been a
magnetism is the same at the surface of the sea and at heights
above that surface to which we can attain. MM. Gay-Lussac
and Biot, in their aerostatic ascent, could detect no difference
at the height of 4000 metres*. Saussure had, however, con
cluded, from the observations which he made at Geneva, Cha-

mouni, and on the Col du Geant, that the intensity was consi
derably less at the latter station than at either of the former,
the difference in the levels being in the one case about 10,000
Jfeet, in the other about 7800 f.
   M. Kupffer also considers that his observations in the vi
cinity of Elbours, in which the difference of elevation of his two
stations was 4500 feet, show clearly that the horizontal intensity
decreases as we ascend above the surface ; and he accounts for

this decrease not having been observed by MM. Biot and Gay

·  Biot, Traite de Physique.             iv. p.  313. --I  take  for granted           that, admit
   Voyages dans les Alpes, torn.
t
ting the accuracy of Saussure's observations, they warranted the conclusions
he drew from them ; but some unaccountable errors must have crept in, either in
transcribing or in printing them ; for not only the means which he deduces do not

result from the observations, but the numbers which he employs contradict his
I Iconclusions.
           transcribe the passage from the only edition can consult, pub
"A'lished at Neufchatel, 1796.
                                         Geneve ces vingt oscillations employ crent
5iu 2*; 4m 50'; 5m; 4m 40'; dont la moyenne Stoit 5TM 0'-4; le thermometre
           degres. A' Chamouni 5m 33" ;
6tant a 6   Au Col du Geant 5TM 30"-3 ;    5m    34" ; moyenne 5TM  33"-5 ; thermometre
12 deg.                                    5ra                      5m ;}4'.6) m0yen,,e
                                                 30"5 ; 5TM 3i'4;

3M5a2ma""C-is43hO,52a"rm-a=4l5oeG;us3en3nfiteo2hvr"e5ce4re",m5s,olSemmd3eo"ta-etng5rrtennes=letie1qqt2u3ou-e43iast3r5rd"mee5sgo,=r0ne"tds-.4o1"in1not5vue2r3le3s-e00m00q2ue\45na;,rtreddcoo'n=omtuml1eei1l 1ql2use2ausr3irv.qeruoa=irtAreuqs1u1Ge1d1ee5lsaa5nt-et5pr6ln5us*s.;
grande force 6toit dans la plaine, et la plus petite sur la plus haute montagne,

a peu pres d'une cinquieme : observation bien importante, si elle etoit confirmee
                                           a     la   m4e"mc53"te=mpe2r9a3t"u,re5.TM"
par des experiences  repe tees, et faites        are                                          =
   The means of the  above observations                                                33"-5     333"-5,
andS^Sl'-T = 331'-7; and the squares of these numbers are 85849, 111222-25,

110024-89. So that, according to this, the force was greatest at Geneva, and
least at Chamouni. Taking Saussure's numbers, 300"-4, 333'-5, 332"-45, their
squares are 90240-16, 111222-25, 110523-0025; so that still the general con

clusions are the same.
I Voyage dans les Environs du Mont Elbronz. Rapport fait a VAcadlmit
Impfriale des Sciences de St. Petersbourg, p. 88.
124              THIRD REPORT-- 1833.

Lussac, by its having been counteracted by the increase of in
tensity, arising from the diminution of temperature. Mr. Hen-

wood informs me that he has made corresponding observations,
consisting of two series, each of 3900 vibrations at each place ;
on Cairn Brea Hill, 710 feet above the level of the sea ; at the
surface of Dolcoath mine, 370 feet above the sea ; and at a depth
of 1320 feet beneath the surface in Dolcoath mine, or 950 feet
below the level of the sea ; and that, after clearing the results
from the effects of temperature, the differences are so minute

that he cannot yet venture to say he has detected any difference
in the magnetic intensity at these stations. If, notwithstanding
                                        correctness of M. Kupffer's
Ithese results,  we are to  admit the   that the diminution of hori
                 think we   must infer
conclusions,

zontal intensity at his higher station was due to an increase in
the dip, which element would not probably be so much affected
by a change of elevation in a comparatively level country, like

ICornwall, as on the flank of such a mountain mass as Elbours.

   Before dismissing the subject of the terrestrial intensity,
should mention that attempts have been made to delineate on
charts the course of isodynamic lines. Professor Hansteen has

published a chart in which this is done for the year 1824. Of
all observations, however, requisite for graphic exhibitions con
nected with terrestrial magnetism, those on the authority of
which such lines must be drawn are fewest in number and least

satisfactory in their results ; we should, therefore, be very cau
Itious in drawing conclusions from such delineations.

   Hitherto have only referred to such changes in the direction
of the magnetic force, and in its intensity, as appear to depend

upon general causes ; but, besides these, sudden and sometimes
considerable irregular changes occur. These have very gene
rally been attributed to the influence of the aurora borealis,

whether visible or not at the place of observation ; and I think

it not improbable that some may be due to a peculiar electrical
state of the atmosphere, independent of that meteor. The in
fluence of the aurora borealis on the magnetic needle has, how

ever, been denied by some, principally because, during the
occurrence of that meteor at Port Bowen, Captain Foster did
not observe peculiar changes in the direction of the needle, al
though, from his proximity to the magnetic pole, the diurnal
change sometimes amounted to 4° or 5° ; and, under such cir
cumstances, it was considered that these changes ought to have

Ibeen particularly conspicuous. In a paper inserted in the se

cond volume of the Journal of the Royal Institution, have,
however, shown that Captain Foster's Port Bowen observations
do not warrant the conclusions which have been drawn from
      REPORT ON THE MAGNETISM OF THE EARTH.                                                                                       125

them, and have pointed out circumstances which may, in this
case, have rendered the effect of the aurora upon the horizon
tal needle less sensible than might have been expected. That
changes in the direction and intensity of

Iare simultaneous with the aurora borealis
                                        the terrestrial forces

                                        I feel no doubt, for
have seen the changes in the direction of the needle to accord
so perfectly with the occurrence of this meteor, and to such an
extent, that in my mind the connexion of the phaenomena be
octhafemtheme auannunqreourreasitnbioownreahabilcilseh*.hIascAobnses,eidnheordwoeutvhbeetre,de,ftfheeIctssmhaamlgl anhyeetirbcee
                                                                                                                                  influence

                                                                                                                                  point out
                                                                                                                                   best ob

Ifserved.
        the magnetic forces brought into action during an aurora
are in the direction of the magnetic meridian, they will affect a
dipping needle adjusted to the plane of that meridian, but the
direction of an horizontal needle will remain unchanged : on
the other hand, if the resultant of these forces makes an angle
with the meridian, the direction of the horizontal needle will be
changed, but the dipping needle may not be affected. In order
to determine correctly the magnetic influence of the aurora by
means of an horizontal needle, it is therefore necessary not only
to have regard to those forces which influence its direction, but
likewise to those which affect the horizontal intensity. The
effects of the former are the objects of direct observation, but
rtthhineogsseeanochfaautnhrgoerealsa, twtthehericaihnrteeanrnesoitttyosombeiamydmevteaedrcyitaetadet,lye--veotrbhyseeinrmvsaetabthnleot,.d--oaAfnsdd,etidteuris
mining the intensity by the time of vibration of the needle can
      here be                                                                                                                     The
not    method  applied,  and  other means must be  Iadopted.                                                                        for
best            appears   to  me to be that which     employed

determining the diurnal variation of the horizontal intensity,
the needle being retained nearly at right angles to the meridian
by the repulsive force of a magnet, or by the torsion of a fine
wire or thread    of glass.    For the  opf utrhpeosaeu, rotrhae,nI,   of detecting
in all cases the                                                      consider that
                  magnetic   influence

two horizontal needles should be employed; one, adjusted in
the meridian, for determining the changes which may take place
in the direction of the horizontal force, and the other at right

angles to the meridian, to determine the changes in the inten

sity of that force, arising principally from new forces in the
plane of the meridian, and which would affect the direction of
the dipping needle alone. Both these needles should be deli-

  · For the observations to which I here particularly refer, see the Journal of

the Royal Institution, vol. ii. p. 272.
126 THIRD REPORT 1833.

cately suspended, either by very fine wire, or by untwisted
fibres of silk. In order to render the changes in the direction
of the needle in the meridian more sensible, its directive force
should be diminished by means of two magnets north and south
of and having their axes in the meridian. These magnets
it,
                                                                    it
                                                                                          is
                                                                                     it
should be made to approach the needle until points about
30° on either side of the meridian, and they should be so ad
justed that the forces acting upon the needle will retain                                     in

equilibrio with its marked end at about 30° to the east and 30°
to the west of north, and also at south. The needle to be
                                                   pIfurmpoasgenetosf
left with its marked  end pointing south, for the                      ob
serving the changes   occurring in its direction.                      are

employed to retain the second needle nearly at right angles to
the meridian, they should be made to approach its centre until
the points of equilibrium are at about 80° east, 80° west and
south, the observations being made with the needle at 80° east

or 80° west. An objection to this method of adjusting this
needle by means of magnets, and to which have already re
                                       I

                                                                          is
ferred in note, that any change in their temperature will
have a very sensible effect on the direction of the needle in this
;

   a
                is
position and should such change take place during the ob
servations, corrections must be applied to the results before
any accurate conclusions can be drawn from them. As, howis
ever, an aurora not generally of long continuance, any change
in the temperature of the magnets during the observations

much more easily guarded against than where the observations

have to be continued during successive days and at different
seasons of the year.  have before remarked that this incon
                      a

                        I

                                 a
venience will be, in great measure, obviated by employing the
torsion of a fine wire, or very fine filament of glass, to retain
the needle at about 80° from the meridian. In this case, the
ratio of the force of torsion to the terrestrial force acting upon
the needle having been determined, measure will be obtained
                                       a

                                                          It

                                                                  is
of the changes which take place in the intensity of the terres
trial force during the occurrence of an aurora.
                                                                      very de
sirable that should be ascertained whether the effects on the
it

needle are simultaneous with any particular class of phaenomena
connected with the aurora whether these effects are dependent
on the production of beams and corruscations, or on the forma;
                           ;
tion of luminous arches or whether any difference exists in the
effects produced by these. In order to determine this,
                                                                      it      ne
                                                                          is

cessary that the times of the occurrence of the different phae-
nomena, and also of the changes in the directions of the needles,
should be accurately noted and for such observations, three
                                    ;

observers appear to be indispensable.
     REPORT ON THE MAGNETISM OF THE EARTH.                     127

Whether the direction of the needle may be influenced by
the  electrical  Istate of the clouds, is much more  doubtful than
the  influence   of the aurora.  am not aware of     any extended

series of observations made with a view to determine this point.
Having adjusted, in a particular manner, a needle between two
Imagnets, so that the directive force was considerably diminished,

  found that the changes in the positions of electric clouds was
accompanied by changes in the direction of the needle ; but,

although the observations indicate that the needle was thus
affected, they are of too limited a nature to draw any general
conclusion from *. Some observations of Captain Sir Everard
Home, however, indicate the same kind of influence. In a con
versation which I had
Ieffect had observed   with   him last year, having  referred  to the
                       to be  produced by the sun's  rays, of  bring

ing a vibrating needle to rest, it brought to his mind a similar
effect which he observed during a thunder-storm. He has fa
voured me with his observations, and from these it appears
that, in two instances, a needle came sooner to rest during a
thunder-storm than it had previous or subsequent to it. The

arc at which the vibrations ceased to be counted is not recorded,

Ibut the number of vibrations was reduced in one case from 100
to 40, and in another from 200 to 120.  have, in consequence
of these observations, requested Lieutenant Barnett of the Royal
Navy, who is engaged in the survey of the southern coast of the
Gulf of Mexico, to make similar observations, should he have
Ian opportunity; and as thunder-storms are so frequent, and of

such intensity on that coast, think he may obtain some im
portant results as connected with the influence of the electric
state of the atmosphere upon the vibrations and direction of

the needle.
Upon a review of all the phaenomena of terrestrial magnetism,
and considering the intimate relation which has been established

between magnetism and electricity, by which it appears that, if

Inot identical, they are only different modifications of the same

principle, there can, think, be little doubt that they are due
to electric currents circulating round the earth. How these
currents are excited, whether by heat, by the action of another
body, or in consequence of rotation, we are not at present able
to determine; but however excited, they must, though not

wholly dependent upon them, be greatly modified by the phy
sical constitution of the earth's surface. We are, therefore, not

to expect that symmetry in their course which would be the

   · Philosophical Transactions, 1823, p. 364. The arrangements which I have

just described for determining the influence of the aurora borealii are well
adapted for deciding this poiut.
128 THIRD REPORT -- 1833.

consequence of a symmetrical constitution of that surface. But

even if such symmetry did exist, the action of all the currents
at different stations on the surface could scarcely be referred
to the same two points as centres of force ; and without this
symmetry, it would be absurd to expect it. The hypothesis,
             of only  t; waondpoliefs,weasaerexptolanreafteorrythoefsethephpaheaneonmoemneanato,
therefore,
must be     rejected
centres of action, we must, besides two principal ones, admit
the existence of others depending upon local causes.
   It has been said that if we refer the magnetism of the earth
                                                                                                little
to   another body, we   only   remove                   the difficulty, and         gain
by   the supposition*.   It,  however,                   appears to me,            that        if we
                                                        hoefatth,e--ewarhthichis,
Icould show that the magnetism                                                                 action
of   thmeorseunp, rionbdaepbelendceanutseo, --f itthse                             due to the  think
                                                                                   however,
the
                                                        problem would be reduced to
the same class as that of accounting for the light of the sun, the
heating and chemical properties of its rays : we only know the
Iffacts, and are not likely to know more.
         difficulties meet us at every step when we attempt to ex
plain the general phaenomena of terrestrial magnetism, these
difficulties become absolutely insurmountable when we come to
the cause of their progressive changes. Here, at least, we
must for the present be satisfied with endeavouring to discover
whether these changes are governed by any general laws :
should they be so, their cause may possibly be discovered.
Diligent and careful observation is the only means by which
we can hope to attain this end, and indeed is that on which we
must principally rely for gaining a more correct knowledge of
all the phaenomena, and of their causes ; and, consequently, im
provements in the methods of observation, and in the instru
ments to be employed, become of the highest importance.
IThis Report has already so far exceeded the limits within
which wished to have confined                           it,that must restrict the re
marks on this part of the subject to a few points.           is

                                                             I

                                                                             of ;
                                                                                                      a
                                                                                                        is
In the observations of Humboldt, in those of M. Rossel, of
Captain Sabine, and of Captain Foster, the terrestrial magnetic
intensity had been determined by the vibrations of a dipping
needle in the plane of the magnetic meridian but as there
by this means, in consequence of the friction upon the axis, a
difficulty in obtaining sufficient number of vibrations to ensure
            a                                           besides ill adapted for
                         a
accuracy, and dipping instrument
carriage, Professor Hansteen proposed to determine the same
by means of a small needle suspended horizontally by few

     · Hansteen Inquiries concerning the Magnet'um's                               the Earth.
       REPORT ON THE MAGNETISM OF THE EARTH.                              129

untwisted fibres of silk.  HTahnesteadevna,nItacgoenss,idheor wetovebr,e  attending
this method of Professor                                                  more ap

parent than real ; for without determining the dip, the hori
zontal force, deduced from the vibrations of the horizontal

needle, cannot be reduced to the force in the direction of the

dip ; and if the dip is determined, two instruments become ne

cessary where, before, only one was requisite.

  IIn order to obviate the inconveniences attending each of these

methods, have proposed a construction for a dipping needle,
by means of which the observations which determine the di
rection of the terrestrial force will also give a measure of its
intensity. The general principle of the construction is simply,
that the centre of gravity of the needle should not be in its
centre of figure, but in a line drawn from that centre at right
angles, both to its axis of motion and to its magnetic axis ; so
that, by two observations, one with the centre of gravity up
wards, and the other with it downwards, the dip, and likewise
the relation which the static momentum of its weight bears to
that of the terrestrial magnetic force acting upon the magnetism
of the needle, may be determined. The principles on which

Ithese determinations depend, and the advantages which pro

pose from the adoption of this construction, are fully described
in a paper read before the Royal Society, and which will appear
in the Philosophical Transactions of this year.
Professor Gauss has proposed a method of determining the
intensity and the changes it undergoes, by which he hopes to
reduce magnetical observations to the accuracy of astronomical
ones. By the vibrations of a magnetized bar he determines the
product of the terrestrial magnetic intensity by the static mo
mentum of its free magnetism. By introducing a second bar,
and by observing at different distances the joint effects of the
first, and of the terrestrial magnetism on this, he determines
the ratio of the terrestrial intensity to the static momentum of
the free magnetism of the first. Eliminating this last from the
two equations, he obtains an absolute measure of the terres
trial magnetic intensity, independent of the magnetism of the
bar. This is a most important result, for we shall thus be en
abled to determine the changes which the terrestrial intensity

undergoes in long intervals of time. It however, to be ob
                              is,
                                                      is
served, that       only the horizontal intensity which thus
a;

     I it
               is
determined, and that, in order to determine the intensity of the

whole force, another element, namely, the dip, must also be ob
served and fear much that the introduction of this element
will, in great measure, counteract that accuracy of which the
methods proposed for determining the times of vibration appear

1833.                      k
     130 THIRD REPORT -- 1833.

     capable. This must be an objection, even where the observa
Itions are made in a fixed observatory ; but where an apparatus

has to be moved from one station to another, think the method

     could scarcely be applied successfully, principally on account
     of the delicacy of the preliminary observations, and of the time
     requisite for making them, in addition to that required for the
     Iobservations by which the terrestrial intensity and its variations

     are to be determined. However greatly may admire the saga
     city which Professor Gauss has shown in devising means for

     Ithe determination of an absolute measure of the horizontal in

     tensity, cannot avoid seeing the difficulties which may occur

     in its practical application.
        The method which Professor Gauss proposes, and has prac
     tised, of observing the course of the daily variation, and of de
     termining the time of vibration, by means of a plane mirror
     fixed on the end of the needle, perpendicularly to its axis, and
     observing the reflected image of the divisions of a scale by
     means of a theodolite fixed at a distance, appears to admit of
     the greatest possible precision, and will probably supersede

     Iother methods of observing the daily variation.

           have adverted to the necessity of careful and diligent ob
     servation of all the phaenomena of terrestrial magnetism, as the

     Isurest means of arriving at a knowledge of their causes : it is

     with reluctance state but believe to be fact, that this
                          it,                       it

                               I                                   a

                                                 ;             aI

                                                                                        a
is is  the only country in Europe in which such observations are not
     regularly carried on in a national observatory. Such an omission

       the more to be regretted, seeing that no one has, believe,
carried on regular series of observations on the diurnal va
          a

riation, since the valuable ones by Colonel Beaufoy were inter

rupted by his death, this interruption happening at time when
   was peculiarly desirable that the series should be unbroken.
it
At this time the needle near London had begun to show re
turn towards the true meridian but whether this was one of

those oscillations which have occasionally been observed, or
that, having really attained its maximum of westerly deviation,
   was returning in the contrary direction, is, believe, undecided
it                                                  I
at the present moment. Of all the data requisite for deter
mining the laws which govern the phaenomenon of the variation,
the time of the maxima and their magnitude are the most im
          trust that ere long the important desideratum will
portant.  I

                       a
be supplied of regular series of magnetical observations in
the national Observatory of Great Britain.

       Royal Military Academy,
            22nd June, 1833.
                             [ isi ]

Report on the   present State of  the  BAynatlhyetiRcaelv.ThJ.eoCryhaolflHisy, dlraote
   statics and
                Hydrodynamics.
Fellow of Trinity College Cambridge.

The problems relating    to fluids, which   have  etnwgoagheedadtsh, e--atthtoesne
tion of mathematicians,  may be classed    under
which involve the consideration of the attractions of the con
stituent molecules, and the repulsion of their caloric ; and those
in which these forces are not explicitly taken account of. In
the latter class the reasoning is made to depend on some pro
perty derived from observation. For instance, water is observed
to be very difficult of compression ; and this has led to the
assumption of absolute incompressibility, as the basis of the
mathematical reasoning : air at rest, and under a given state of

temperature, is observed to maintain a certain relation between

the pressure and the density ; hence the fundamental property
of the fluid which is the subject of calculation is assumed to be
the constancy of this relation, to the exclusion of all the circum
stances which may cause it to vary. The fluids treated of in
this kind of problems are rather hypothetical than real, yet not
so different from real fluids but that the mathematical deduc
tpeieonnrtiismreeolnybtttaoianppepdrloiebrdlee.smpsecI otipnf rgtohpeothsseeemcoinnaddtmhciilstasoRs,fe--phoatrhvtionsgteo  the test of ex

                                                                                                                            confine myself
                                                                                                                            in the common
theory of fluids. The reasons for making this limitation are,
Ithat both kinds together would afford too ample matter for one

Report, and that those which have selected are distinguished
from the others by the different purpose in regard to science
which correct solutions of them would answer : for the treat
ment of any hydrostatical or hydrodynamical questions which
involve the consideration of molecular attraction and the repul
sion of heat, must proceed upon certain hypotheses respecting
the mode of action of these forces, and the interior constitution
of the fluid, as these are circumstances which from their nature
cannot be data of observation ; and hence, assuming the ma
thematical reasoning founded on the hypotheses to be correct,

a satisfactory comparison of the theoretical deductions with
facts must serve principally to establish the truth of the hypo
theses, and so to let us into secrets of nature which probably
                             any other                                                                                      But when the
could  never  be known   by                process.
                                k2
132 THIRD REPORT -- 1833.

basis of calculation, as in the questions that will come before
us, is some observed and acknowledged fact, solutions which
satisfy experiments will first of all serve to confirm the truth of

the mathematical reasoning, and then give us confidence in the

theoretical results, which, as often happens, cannot readily re
ceive the test of experiment. Calculations of this kind do not
add much to our conviction that the facts applied as the test of
the theory are really consequences of those which are the basis
of it. For instance, we feel satisfied, independently of any ma
thematical reasoning, that the motions of waves on the surface
of water are consequences of the incompressibility of the fluid,
and the law of equal pressure. But the purpose which these
calculations answer of confirming
is very important, particularly in  methods of applying   analysis
                                    regard to the higher   class of
physical questions, which M. Poisson has proposed to refer to
a distinct department of science, under the title of Mathema-
tique Physique, viz. those that require in their theoretical treat
ment some hypotheses respecting the interior constitution of
bodies, and the laws of corpuscular action : for in questions of
this nature, as well as in problems in the common theory of
fluids, the mathematical reasoning conducts to partial differen

tial equations ; and if the method of treating these, and of
drawing inferences from their integrals, be established in one
kind, it may be a guide to the method to be adopted in the

other. It is plainly, then, desirable that the mathematical pro
cesses be first confirmed in the cases in which the basis of rea

soning is an observed fact, that the reasoning may proceed with
certainty in those cases where it is based on an hypothesis, the
truth of which it proposes to ascertain.
The subjects of this Report may now be stated to be, the

leading hydrostatical and hydrodynamical problems recently
discussed, which proceed upon the supposition of an incom
pressible fluid, or of a fluid in which the quotient of the pres
sure divided by the density is a constant ; and the end it has
in view is, to ascertain to what extent, and with what success,
      employed as an instrument of inquiry in
      desirous it should be understood that
beenIanalysis has                                         these
                                                          have
I amproblems.
not attempted to make a complete enumeration either of the
questions that have been discussed in this department of science,
or of the labours of mathematicians in those which have come
under notice. It has rather been my endeavour to give some
idea of the most approved methods of treating the leading

I Iproblems, and the possible sources of error or defect in the

solutions. In taking this course hope may be considered to
have acted sufficiently in accordance with the recommendation.
       REPORT ON HYDROSTATICS AND HYDRODYNAMICS.                        1.33

of the Committee for Mathematics, which was the occasion of
my receiving the honour of a request to take this Report in
hand.
With the limitation above stated as to the subjects our Re
port is to embrace, we shall have scarcely anything to say on
the analytical theory of hydrostatics. The problems of interest
in this department were early solved, and present no difficulty
in principle, and little in the detail of calculation. The deter
mination of the height of mountains by the barometer is a
hydrostatical question, the difficulty of which does not consist
in the analytical calculation, but only in ascertaining the law of
the distribution of the atmospheric temperature. We shall not
have to speak of the theories that have been invented to over
come this difficulty. Neither does it fall within the scope of this
Report to notice the very valuable memoir of M. Poisson on
the equilibrium of fluids*, which has for its object the deriva
tion of the general equations of equilibrium from a consideration
of molecular attraction and the repulsion of caloric, and seems

to have been composed in immediate reference to the theory

of capillary attraction, which the author subsequently pub
lished. With regard to the problem of capillary attraction, we
may remark, that it is not possible by any supposition respect
ing the forces which sustain or depress the fluid in the tube,
to solve it as a question in the common theory of hydrostatics.
M. Poisson has shown the insufficiency of Laplace's theory,

and by taking into account the molecular forces and the effect
of heat, has proved that the explanation of the phaenomenon is
essentially dependent on a modification of the property which
is the basis of the common theory, viz. the incompressibility of
the fluid. It does not fall within our province to say more on
                       of M. Poisson.
the celebrated theory                      been  recently  made in
   One improvement     I consider to have
the common theory of fluids. It has been usual to take the law
of equal pressure as a datum of observation. Professor Airy,
in his Lectures in the University of Cambridge, has shown that
this property may be derived, by reasoning according to esta
blished mechanical principles, from another of a simpler kind,
the notion of which may be gathered from observation, viz.
that the division of a perfect fluid may be effected without the
application of sensible force; from which it immediately follows
that the state of equilibrium or motion of a fluid mass is not
altered by mere separation of its parts by an indefinitely thin
partition. A definition of fluids founded on this principle, and

       · Memoirct de VAcadfoiiie ties Sciencett Paris, torn. ix. 1830.
131 THIRD REPORT -- 1833.

a proof of the law of equal pressure, are given at the beginning
of the Elements of Hydrostatics and Hydrodynamics of Pro
fessor Miller *. Several advantages attend this mode of com
mencing the mathematical treatment of fluids. The principle
is one which perfectly characterizes fluids, as distinguished in
              arrangement of their                       from solids. It may
the internal                           paIrtticisle, sI
be rendered   familiar to the senses.                    think, necessary for
the solutions of some hydrostatical and hydrodynamical pro

blems, particularly those of reflection f. Lastly, in reference

to the department of science proposed to be called Physical
Mathematics, the propositions of the common theory ought to
be placed on the simplest possible basis, because the questions

of most interest in that department are those which have in
view the explanation of the phenomena that are the founda
tions of the reasoning in the other kind. The solution of one
such question is a great step in scientific generalization. It is
plainly, therefore, of importance that the fact proposed for ex
planation should be the simplest that direct observation can

come at.
   The analytical theory of hydrodynamics is of a much more
difficult nature than that of hydrostatics. The assumptions it is
necessary to make to obtain even approximate solutions of the
simplest problems of fluid motion betray the difficulty and im
perfection of this part of science. There are cases, however, of
steady motion, that of motion which has arrived at perma
              is,
                              is

                                                                             a

                                                                 It
nent state, so that the velocity constantly the same in quantity
and direction at the same point, which require a much more
simple analysis than those which do not satisfy this condition.
does not appear that the equations applicable to this kind of mo
tion were obtained in any general manner till they were given in
an Elementary Treatise on Hydrostatics and Hydrodynamics
by Mr. Moseley who has derived them from principle of so
              J,                                   is
                                                                a
                             it
                                                                            it
simple a nature, that, as can be stated in a few words, may

be mentioned here. When the motion steady, each particle
in passing from one point to another, passes successively through

the states of motion of all the particles which at any instant lie
on its path. This principle valuable for its generality
equally applicable to all kinds of fluids, and will be true, whe
              it,                                        if
                          is                                         :
                                                                   it
                              it                                         is
ther or not the effect of heat be taken into account, only the
condition of steadiness remains. The equations of motion are
readily derived from because enables us to consider the

tt  · Cambridge 1831.                              to determine the manner ofp.
       Dr. Young employed an equivalent principle  Philosophy, vol. ii. 64.

the reflection of waves of water. See his Natural
        Cambridge 1830.
         REPORT ON HYDROSTATICS AND HYDRODYNAMICS.                                       135

motion of a single particle, in the place of the motion of an
aggregate of particles. Though this mode of deriving them is
the best possible on account of its simplicity, it was yet de
sirable to know how they may be obtained from the general

equations of fluid motion, in a paper contained in the Trans
actions          PhhailsogsoivpehnicaalmeStohcoidetyofodfoCinagmtbhrisid, gbeot*h,       author
         of the                                                                     the  incom
of this                                                                             for
         Report
pressible and elastic fluids, and has shown that a term in the

general formulae which gives rise to the complexity common to
most hydrodynamical questions, disappears for this kind of
motion. Euler had already done the same for incompressible

fluids f. The instances in nature of fluid motion of the steady

kind are far from uncommon ; and it is probable that when the
equations applicable to them are better known, and studied

longer, they may be employed in very interesting researches.
The motion of the atmosphere, as affected by the rotation of
the earth, and a given distribution of the temperature due to
solar heat, seems to be an instance of this kind.
We will now proceed to consider in order the principal hydro-

dynamical problems that have recently engaged the attention
of mathematicians. For convenience we shall class them as
follows :-- I.                                              II. The velocity of
propagation     Motion in pipes     aInIdI.veMsuseslisc.al
                in elastic fluids.                          vibrations in tubes.
IV. Waves at the surface of water. V. The resistance to the

motion of a ball-pendulum.

   I. The motion of fluids in pipes and vessels has not been
treated with any success, except in the cases in which the con
dition of steadiness is fulfilled. The paper above alluded to,
in the Transactions of the Philosophical Society of Cambridge,
contains some applications of the equation of steady motion for
incompressible fluids, to determine the velocity of water issuing
from different kinds of adjutages in vessels of any shape: also
                explanation of     --a pthhaetnoomf tehneoanttwrahcitciohn     short while
a theoretical                                                               a  of a disc to
ago excited     some attention,

an orifice through which a steady current either of water or air

is issuing.
  In the  MbeymMo.irsNaovfiethr e   Paris  Academy of Sciences* there is
                                            motion of elastic fluids in ves
an Essay                           on the
sels, and through different kinds of adjutages into the sur
rounding air, or from one vessel into another. For the sake of
simplicity the author considers the fluid to be subject to a con
stant pressure, and consequently the motion to have arrived at
a state of permanence. His calculations are founded upon the

· Vol. iii. Part HI.  f Afemoires de VAcadhnxe de Berlin, 1755, p. 344.

t Tom. ix. 1830.
136 THIRD REPORT 1833.

hypothesis of parallel slices, which assumes the velocity to be
the same, and in the same direction, and the density to be the
same at all points of any section transverse to the axis of the
vessel or pipe. This hypothesis is one of those that the theory
of hydrodynamics has borrowed
defects. Lagrange has, however,                      frsohmowenxpethrieeonrceeticatollysu*ppthlyatitist
always furnishes a first approximation, the breadth of the ves
sel being considered a quantity of the first order, and the effect
of the adhesion of the fluid to the sides of the vessel being neg
lected. It is right to observe, that in the problems M. Navier

has considered, this hypothesis might                        have  habseegnivienn,a--gmreoaret
measure dispensed with : the expression                       he

correct than that commonly adopted for the velocity of issuing
                                              by which airs   of different
tchormomuguhnicaates,m--allmaigphetrtuhraeve  been obtained                 densities
                                                             by employing   the equa
tion above mentioned of steady motion, as, in fact, Mr. Moseley

fhas done . This would be a preferable mode of treating such
questions, because in every instance in which these auxiliary
hypotheses are got rid of, something is gained on the side of
theory. This memoir contains another hypothesis, which can
not be so readily dispensed with. Theory is at present quite
inadequate to determine the retardation in the flow of fluids
occasioned by sudden contractions or widenings in the bore of

the pipe. It is found by experiments with water, that the re
tardation is sufficiently represented by taking account of the
loss of vis viva which, on the hypothesis of parallel slices, will
result from the sudden changes of velocity which must be sup
posed to take place at the abrupt changes in the bore of the
pipe. M. Navier extends these considerations to elastic fluids,
The theory manifests a sufficient agreement with the experi
ments it is compared with, and is valuable on account of the
                      it may receive.
appIIli.caTtihones  most interesting          class  of problems   in hydrodynamics

are perhaps those which relate to small oscillations. Newton
was the first to submit the vibrations of the air to mathema
tical calculation. The propositions in the second book of the
Principia, devoted to this subject, and to the determination of
the velocity of sound, may be ranked among the highest pro
ductions of his genius. He has assumed that the vibratory
motion of the particles follows the law of the motion of an oscil
lating pendulum. It was soon discovered that many other
assumed laws of vibration would, by the same mode of reasoning,

                    · Mecanique Analyiique, Part II. § xi. art. 34.

                    t Elementary Treatise, p. 204.
REPORT ON HYDROSTATICS AND HYDRODYNAMICS.                                               137

conduct to the same velocity of propagation. This, which was
thought to be an objection to the reasoning, is an evidence of
its correctness : for the plain consequence is, that the velocity
of propagation is independent  of the kind of vibration which
we may arbitrarily impress on  the fluid ; --and so experience
finds it to be.
When the partial differential equation, which applies equally
to the vibrations of the air and those of an elastic chord, had

been formed and integrated, a celebrated discussion arose

between Euler and D'Alembert as to the extent to which the

integral could be applied ; whether only to cases in which the
motion was defined by a continuous curve, or also to motion

defined by a broken and discontinuous line. It is well known
that the question was set at rest by Lagrange, in two Disser
tations published in vol. i. and vol. ii. of the Miscellanea Tau-
rinensia. The difficulty that arrested the attention of these
eminent mathematicians was one of a novel kind, and peculiar
to physical questions that require for their solution the integrals
of partial differential equations. The difficulty of integration,
which is the obstacle in most instances, had been overcome by
gDr'aAll,e--mbtoerint.terpIrtetretmheainlaendguatogedroafwanianlfyesriesn. cesWhfreonm   the inte
                                                                                        an aggre
gate of points, as a mass of fluid or an elastic chord, receives

an arbitrary and irregular impulse, any point not immediately
acted upon may have a correspondent irregular movement after
the initial disturbance has ceased. This is a matter of experi
ence. Was it possible, then, that these irregular impulses, and

the consequent motions, were embraced by the analytical calcu
lation ? From Lagrange's researches it follows that the func
tions introduced by integration are arbitrary to the same degree
that the motion is so practically, and that they will therefore

apply to discontinuous motions. (Of course we must except
the practical    disturbances which  the limitations of the calcula
tion exclude,    --those which are    very abrupt, or very large.)
This has been a great advance made in the application of ana
lysis to physical questions. Had a different conclusion been
arrived at, many facts of nature could never have come under
the power of calculation. The Researches of Lagrange, which
will ever form an epoch in the science of applied mathematics,
establish two points principally : First, That the arbitrary func

tions, as we have been just saying, are not necessarily conti
nuous : Secondly, That (in the instance he considered) they are
equivalent to an infinite series of terms having arbitrary con
stants for coefficients, and proceeding according to the sines of
multiple arcs. This latter result, which appears to be true for
138 THIRD REPORT -- 1833.

all linear partial differential equations of the second order, with
constant coefficients, is valuable as presenting an analogy be

tween arbitrary constants and arbitrary functions.
   But the way in which Lagrange, after establishing these two
points, proceeds to find the velocity of propagation, does not
appear to me equally satisfactory with the rest of his reasoning.
His method seems to be a departure from the principle which
may be gathered from that of Newton. For, as was mentioned
above, the reasoning of the Principia shows that the                               velocity of
propagation is independent of all that is arbitrary.
                                                                                     It seems
important to the truth of the analytic reasoning, that it should
not only obtain a constant velocity of propagation, but arrive at
it by a process which is independent of the arbitrary nature of
the functions; whereas the method which the name of La

grange has sanctioned, is essentially dependent on the discon

tinuity of the functions, that is, on their being arbitrary. With
a view of calling attention to this difficulty, and as far as possi
ble removing  I. it,  the author of this Report read a paper before
the Philosophical Society of Cambridge, which published in
                                                   if

                                                      it

                                                              of I
                                                                                   is
                                                                                 I
Vol. iii. Part of their Transactions. am far from assert
ing that that Essay has been successful; but some service,
think, will be done to science                     should lead mathematicians to

a reconsideration of the mode of mathematical reasoning to be
Ifemployed in regard                  to the applications          arbitrary functions.
     the determination                  of the velocity of        propagation in elastic
fluids were the only problem affected by this treatment of arbi
trary functions, would not be worth while to raise a question
respecting the principle of the received method, as no doubtit

attaches to the result obtained by                                but there are other pro
                                                   I

                                                                it

                                                                              ;

                                                                                                 is
                                                                                                                         a
blems, (one we shall have to consider,) the correct solutions of
which mainly depend on the construction to be put upon these
functions. The difficulty am speaking of, which one of
delicate and abstract nature, will perhaps be best understood
                                                    which seem
by the following                    q--ueCriaens,  the arbitrary   calculated to bring the
point to an issue                                                 functions be immediately
       ?
                                   :
applied to any but the parts of the fluid immediately acted upon
by the arbitrary disturbance, and to parts indefinitely near to
these  To apply them to parts more remote,
                                                                  ?                not necessary
first to obtain the law of propagation
                                                                             is
                                                                               it
                                                                  And do not the arbi

trary functions themselves, by the quantities they involve, fur
nish us with means of ascertaining the law of propagation,
independently of any consideration of discontinuity?

   Euler and Lagrange determined the velocity of propagation
in having regard to the three dimensions of the fluid, on the
                                                                  is
mited supposition that the initial disturbance                                          li
                                                                  the same as to
    REPORT ON HYDROSTATICS AND HYDRODYNAMICS.                                                    139

density and velocity, at the same distance in every direction
from a fixed point, which is the centre of it. Laplace first dis
pensed with this limitation in the case in which two dimensions
only of the fluid are taken account of*. The principal cha
racter of his analysis is a new method of employing definite
integrals. Finally, M. Poisson solved the same problem for

three dimensions of the fluid f. This memoir deserves to be

particularly mentioned for the interesting matter it contains.
The object of the author is to demonstrate, in a more general
manner than had been before done, some circumstances of the
motions of elastic fluids which are independent of the particular
motions of the fluid particles, such as propagation and reflection.

The general problem of propagation just mentioned he solves
by developing the integral of the partial differential equation of

the second order in x, y, z, and t, applicable to this case, in a
series proceeding according to decreasing powers of the di
stance from the centre of disturbance, as it cannot be obtained

in finite  terms, and      then transforming the series into a definite
integral,                    which has of late been extensively em
           -- a method
ployed. The crossing of waves simultaneously produced by
disturbances at several centres, is next considered, and this
leads to a general solution of the problem of reflection at a plane
surface. For the case in which the motions of the aerial parti
cles are not supposed small, the velocity of propagation along
a line of air is shown to be the same as when they are small.
This result is an inference drawn from the arbitrary disconti
nuity of the motion, on which it does not seem to depend. In
a paper before alluded to %, the same result is obtained without
reference to the principle of discontinuity. M. Poisson treats
also of propagation in a mass of air of variable density, such as
the earth's atmosphere. His analysis is competent to prove, in
accordance with experience, that the velocity of sound is the
same as in a mass of uniform density, and that its intensity at
any place depends, in addition to the distance from the point
of agitation, only on the density of the air where the disturbance
is made. So that a bell rung in the upper regions of the air
will not sound so loud as when rung by the same effort below,
but will sound equally loud at all equal distances from the place
where it is rung.

   In seeking for the general equations of the motion of fluids,

(first obtained by Euler,) a quantity § is met with which, if it be

f*  M" eMmemoiroairsedesuI'rAclaadeTmhifce,orieAndu177S9o. n,"  Journal  de      ,   Polytechniqve,

                                                                             VEcole

torn. vii. cah. xiv.
III.\
J
    Transactions      of   the Philosophical Society             of Cambridge,  vol. iii.  Part
                       'i  writings this quantity is            udx + v dy +
    In M. Poisson                                                               ud-.
140 THIRD REPORT 1833.

an exact differential of a function of three variables, renders the

subsequent analytical reasoning much simpler than it would be
in the contrary case. This simplification has been proved by
Lagrange to obtain in most of the problems of interest that are
proposed for our solution *. Euler showed that the differential
is inexact when the mass of fluid revolves round an axis so that
the velocity is some function of the distance from the axisf.
But no general method exists of distinguishing the instances in
which the quantity in question is a complete differential, and
when it is not. Nor is it known to what physical circumstance
this peculiarity of the analysis refers. T o clear up this point
is a desideratum in the theory of hydrodynamics. M. Poisson
has left nothing to be desired in the generality with which he
has solved the problem of propagation of motion in elastic fluids ;

for in the Memoirs of the Academy of Paris % he has given

a solution of the question, without supposing the initial disturb

ance to be such as to make the above-mentioned quantity an
exact differential. His conclusions are, that the velocity of

propagation is the same as when this supposition is made ; that
the part of the motion which depends on the initial condensa
tions or dilations follows the same laws as in that case, but

the part depending on the initial velocity does not return com
pletely to a state of repose after a determinate interval of time ;
that at great distances from the place of agitation there is no

essIeInI.tiaWl ediffteurrenncneowbettowteheen   the motion in the   two cases.         the
                                               theory of musical
                                                                   vibrations of
air in cylindrical tubes of finite length. Little has been effected
by analysis in regard to this interesting subject. The principal
difficulty consists in determining the manner in which the mo
tion is affected by the extremities of the tube, whether open or
closed, but particularly the open end. Those who first handled

the  question reasoned on  the hypotheses, that at the open end
the                        same density as the external air to
     air is always of the
maintain an equilibrium with                   is
                                                    it,  and at the closed end always
stationary by reason of the stop. The latter supposition will
be true only when the stop perfectly rigid.                                      does not ma
terially affect the truth of the reasoning but                                 the other sup
                                                         ;

                                                               if It

position were strictly true, the sound from the vibrating column
of air in the tube would not cease so suddenly as experience
shows does, when the disturbing cause removed neither
     it                                                  is

         J+                                                                         ;

on this hypothesis could the external air be acted on so as to

receive alternate condensations and rarefactions, and transmit

           · Mecanique Analytique, Part II. xi. art. 16.

              Memoires de I'Academie de Berlin, 1755, 292.
              torn. x. 1831.
                                                         §
                                                                           p.
REPORT ON HYDROSTATICS AND HYDRODYNAMICS.                                 141

sonorous waves. These objections to the old theory have been

stated by M. Poisson, who proposes a new mode of considering
the problem*. He reasons on an hypothesis which embraces
both the case of an open and a closed end, viz. that the velo
city at each is in a constant ratio to the condensation. This
ratio will be very large for the open end, and a very small frac
tion for the closed end. Its exact value in the latter case de

pends on   the elasticity of the stop, and in the     other   on the mode
           of the vibrations on the external                  to determine
of action                                             air,--
which is a problem of great difficulty, which M. Poisson has
forborne to meddle with. His theory is not competent to assign
a priori either the series of tones or the gravest that can be
sounded by a tube of given length, but is more successful in
determining the number of nodes and loops, and the intervals
between them, when a given tone is sounded. To find the di
stances of the nodes and loops from the extremities of the tubes,
he has recourse to the hypotheses of the old theory, which
make the closed end the position of a node, and the open end
the position of a loop. This, he says, will not be sensibly dif
ferent from the truth, in the one case, the stop be very un
           is
                if,

                                               is
yielding, and, in the other, the diameter of the tube be small.
Recent researches on this subject, which we shall presently

speak of, show that when the diameter not very small the

position of the loop perceptibly distant from the open end.
   The latter part of M. Poisson's memoir contains an applica
tion of the principles of the foregoing part to the vibrations of
air in a tube composed of two or more cylinders of different dia
meters, and to the motion of two different fluids superimposed
in the same tube. In the course of this latter inquiry, the au
thor determines the reflection which sound experiences at the
junction of two fluids; and by an extension of like considerations
to luminous undulations, obtains the same expressions for the
relative intensities of light perpendicularly incident, and re
flected at plane surface, as those given by Dr. Young in the
           a
                                       a
Article Chromatics of the Supplement to the Encyclopcedia
Britannica. This subject was                                              M. Pois
son at greater length in very             afterwards  mreemsuomired"  by  the Mo
                                          elaborate                   On
tion of two Elastic Fluids superimposed f," which chiefly
                                                                      is

remarkable for the bearing which the results have upon the
theory of light.

   At the last meeting, in May this year, of the Philosophical So
ciety of Cambridge, paper was read by Mr. Hopkins, in which,
t
                       a
                             V
           · Memoir es de Academie des Sciences, Paris, An 1817.
              Ibid. torn. x. p. 317.
142 THIRD REPORT 1833.

by combining analysis with a delicate set of experiments, re
sults are obtained which are a valuable addition to this part of
the theory of fluid motion. His experiments were made on a
tube open at both ends, and the column of air within it was put
in motion by the vibrations of a plate of glass applied close to
one end. The following are           principal results. The
are not points of quiescence,  the    of minimum vibration   ;n--odtehse
                                but

extremity of the tube most remote from the disturbance is not
a place of maximum vibration, but the whole system of places
of maximum and minimum vibration is
degree towards it ;--the distances of      shifted in a  very sensible
                                           the places
                                                         of maximum

and minimum vibration from each other, and from that extre

mity, remain the same for the same disturbance, whatever be the
length of the tube. This last fact Mr. Hopkins proves by his
analysis must obtain. The shifting of the places of maximum
and minimum vibration is not accounted for by the theory : nor
is it probable that it can be, unless the consideration of the
mode of action of the vibrations on the external air be entered
upon, -- an  important inquiry, but, as I  said before, one of great
difficulty.  I think also that the effect  of the vibrations of the

tube itself on the contained air ought to be taken into account.

  IV. The problem of waves at the surface of water is princi
pally interesting as furnishing an exercise of analysis. The
general differential equations of fluid motion assume a very sim
ple form for the case of oscillations of small velocity and extent,
and seem to offer a favourable opportunity for the application
of analytical reasoning. Yet mathematicians have not succeed
ed in giving a solution of the problem in any degree satisfactory,
which does not involve calculations of a complex nature. We
need not stay to inquire in what way Newton found the velo
city of the propagation of waves to vary as the square root of
their breadths : he was himself aware of the imperfection of his
theory. The question cannot be well entered upon without
partial differential equations. Laplace was the first to apply to
it a regular analysis. His essay is inserted at the end of a
memoir on the oscillations of the sea and the atmosphere, in
the volume of the Paris Academy of Sciences for the year 1776.
The differential equations of the motion are there formed on

the supposition that the velocities and oscillations are always so
small that their products, and the powers superior to the first,
may be neglected. The problem without this limitation be
comes so complicated that no one has dared to attempt it. La
place's reasoning conducts to a linear partial differential equa
tion of the second order, consisting of two terms, which is
readily integrated ; but on account of the difficulty of obtaining a
     REPORT ON HYDROSTATICS AND HYDRODYNAMICS.            143

general solution from this integral, he makes a particular sup
position, which is equivalent to considering the fluid to be de
ranged from its state of equilibrium by causing the surface in
its whole extent to take the form of a trochoid, i. e. a serpentine
curve, of which the vertical ordinate varies as the cosine of the
horizontal abscissa. The solution in question is of so limited
a nature, that we may dispense with stating the results arrived

at.
  In the volume of the Memoirs of the Academy of Berlin for
the year 1786, Lagrange has given* a very simple way of
             in the Newtonian method of reasoning, that the ve-
fwocoivtyingo,f propagation of waves along a canal of small and con
stant depth and uniform width, is that acquired by a heavy
body falling through half the depth. In the Me'canique Ana-
lyiiquej- the same result is obtained analytically. The princi
pal feature of the analysis in this solution is, that the linear
partial differential equation of the second order and of four va
riables, to which the reasoning conducts, is integrated approxi
mately in a series. Lagrange is of opinion, that on account of
the tenacity and mutual adherence of the parts of the fluid, the

motion extends only to a small distance vertically below the
surface agitated by the waves, of whatever depth the fluid may
be ; and that his solution will consequently apply to a mass of
fluid of any depth, and will serve to determine, from the ob
served velocity of propagation, the distance to which the motion

extends downwards.
   The problem of waves was proposed by the French Institute
for the prize subject of 1816. M. Poisson, whose labours are
preeminent in every important question of Hydrodynamics, had
already given this his attention. His essay, which was the first
deposited in the bureau of the Institute, was read Oct. 2, 1815,
just at the expiration   othfethme epmeoriirod"           for competition. It
forms the first part of                          allowed  Theory of Waves,"
                                                 On the

published in the volume of the Academy for the year 1816, and
contains the general formulae required for the complete solution
of the problem, and the theory, derived from these formulae, of
waves propagated with a uniformly accelerated motion. In the
month of December following, an additional paper was read by
M. Poisson on the same subject, which forms the second part
of the memoir just mentioned, and contains the theory of waves
propagated with a constant velocity. These are much more
sensible than the waves propagated with an accelerated motion,
and are in fact those which are commonly seen to spread in

     · p. 192.           t Part II. sect. xi. art. 36.
144 THIRD REPORT -- 183.J.

circles round any disturbance made at the surface of water.
No theory of waves which does not embrace these can be con
sidered complete. In the essay of M. Cauchy, which obtained
the prize, and is printed in the Mtmoires des Savans*, the
theory of only the first kind of waves is given. This essay,
however, claims to be more complete than the first part of
M. Poisson's memoir, because it leaves the function relative to
the initial form of the fluid surface entirely arbitrary, and conse
quently allows of applying the analysis to any form of the body
immersed to produce the initial disturbance. M. Poisson re
stricts his reasoning to a body, of the form of an elliptic para
boloid, immersed a little in the fluid, with its vertex downward
and axis vertical ; and as this form may have a contact of the
second order, with any continuous surface, the reasoning may
be legitimately extended to any bodies of a continuous form,
but not to such as have summits or edges, like the cone, cy

Jlinder and prism. This restriction having been objected to as a

defect in the theoryf, M. Poisson answers that his analysis
is not at fault, but that one of the differential equations of the
problem, which expresses the condition that the same particles
of water remain at the surface during the whole time of motion,
very much restricts the form which the immersed body may be
supposed to have. When the initial motion is produced by the
immersion of a body whose surface presents summits or edges,
it is not possible, he thinks, to represent the velocities of the
fluid particles by analytical formulae, especially at the first in
stants of the agitation, when the motion must be very complicated,
and the same points will not remain constantly at the surface.

   With the exception of the particular we have been mention

ing, the two essays do not present mathematical processes es

sentially different in principle. Attached to that of M. Cauchy,
which was published subsequently to M. Poisson's memoir, are
valuable and copious additions, serving to clear up several
points of analysis that occur in the course of the work, and re

ferring chiefly to integration by series and definite integrals,
and to the treatment of arbitrary functions. Among these is a
lengthened discussion of the theory of the waves uniformly
propagated, the existence of which, as indicated by the analysis,
had escaped the notice of both mathematicians in their first re
searches. In this discussion the velocities of propagation are
determined of the two foremost waves produced by the immer

· vol. iii.

t  "BuNloletteinsudre  la  Societe Philomatique, Septembre    1818, p. 129.  V Academic
                       le  Probleme des Ondes," torn. viii.  of Memoires de
X

des Sciences, p. 571.
            REPORT ON HYDROSTATICS AND HYDRODYNAMICS.                             145

sion and sudden elevation of bodies of the forms of a parabo
loid, a cylinder, a cone, and a solid, generated by the revolution

of a parabola about a tangent at its vertex. To bodies of the
              f"orNmost,e"Ma. bPooviessroenfeorrbejdecttso,toatetexmtepntdsintgo
last  three                                                                       the reasoning;
and   in the                                                                      show that such
Ifan extension leads to results inconsistent with the principle of
the coexistence of small vibrations.    we are not permitted to
receive the analysis of M. Cauchy in all the generality it lays
claim to, we must at least assent to the reasonableness of the
following conclusion it pretends to arrive at, viz. that "the
heights and velocities of the different waves produced by the
immersion of a cylindrical or prismatic body depend not only
on the width and height of the part immersed, but also on the
form of the surface which bounds this part." There is also
much appearance of probability in a remark made by the
same mathematician, that the number of the waves produced
may depend on the form of the immersed body and the depth
of immersion.
We proceed to say a few words on the contents of M. Pois-
son's memoir. He commences by showing, as well by a priori

reasoning as by an appeal to facts, that Lagrange's solution
cannot be extended to fluid of any depth. In his own solution
he supposes the fluid to be of any uniform depth, but princi
pally has regard to the case which most commonly occurs of a
very great depth : he neglects the square of the velocity of the
oscillating particles, as all have done who have attempted this
problem, and assumes, that a fluid particle which at any instant
is at the surface, remains there during the whole time of the
motion. This latter supposition seems necessary for the con
dition of the continuity of the fluid. With regard to the neg
lect of the square of the velocity, it does not seem that we can
tell to what extent it may affect the calculations so well as in
the case of the vibrations of elastic fluids, where the velocity of
the vibrating particle is neglected in comparison of a known and
constant velocity, that of propagation. M. Poisson treats first
the case in which the motion takes place in a canal of uniform
width, and, consequently, abstraction is made of one horizontal
dimension of the fluid ; and afterwards the case in which the
fluid is considered in its three dimensions. The former requires
                    the integration of  the same differential
for   its solution  as that occurring   in Laplace's theory.                      equation
of    two terms *
                                                                                   No use

is made of the common integral of this equation, as, on account
of the impossible quantities it involves, it would be difficult
                                                                 j-r = 0.
      --· In M. Poisson's works this equation is  :,
                    l
     1833.                                                  -f-
146 THIRD REPORT -- 1833.

to make it serve to determine the laws of propagation. It is
remarkable that this integral is not necessary for solving the
pmCraooubircl,ehm"y,OinnatlhtthheeoNuDgoithse,tsraibsaudMtdieo. dnPotooisfshoHisnea"htTaishnesoShrooylwidnofBiWondaihveiess,s",f"irasantdsomMlue.
tion may be derived from it equivalent to that which they have
given without its aid. We may be permitted to doubt whether

its meaning is yet fully understood, and to hope that, by over
coming some difficulty in the interpretation of this integral, the
problem of waves may receive a simpler solution than has hi
therto been given. Be this as it may, the process of integration
adopted by M. Poisson leaves nothing to be wished for in regard
to generality. It is easy to obtain an unlimited number of par
ticular equations not containing arbitrary functions, which will
satisfy the differential equation in question, and to combine
them all in an expression for the principal variable (p ), deve
loped in series of real or imaginary exponentials. This will be

the  most   general integral  "thtehereequeaxtiiostn   admits of, and (to use
the  words  of M. Poisson,)
                                                      theorems, by means of
which we may introduce into expressions of this nature, arbi
trary functions, which represent the initial state of the fluid :
the difficulty of the question consists then in discussing the re
sulting formulae, and discovering from them all the laws of the
phenomenon. The theory of waves furnishes at present the
most complete example of a discussion of this sort."
In a Report like the present, it is not possible to give any
Ivery precise idea of the analysis which has been employed for

solving the problem of waves. have thought it proper to call
attention to a process of reasoning which has been very exten
sively employed by the French mathematicians of the present

day, and indeed may be considered to be the principal feature
of their calculations in the more recent applications of mathe
matics to physical and mechanical questions. To understand
fully the nature and power of the method, the works of Fourier,
Ipmspaeormtkieconuirlsaorfol,yftoMTh.MeP.oAiCnsasauolcynhtyic"'saOl n"TThthheeeoorDyryisotfroiHbf ueWatitao,vnethsoe,"f  Notes, before

                                                                                                                           and the two
                                                                                                                         Heat in Solid
Bodies," must be studied. will just refer to some parts of the
writings of the last-mentioned geometer, where he has been
careful to state in a concise manner the principle of the method
in question. There are some remarks on the generality of a
main step in the process in the Bulletin de la Societe Philoma-
tique*. The note before spoken of in the eighth volume of the

            · An 1817, p. ISO.
             REPORT ON HYDROSTATICS AND HYDRODYNAMICS.                                                    147

Memoirs of the Academy concludes with a brief account of the
history and principle of this way of expressing the complete

aisnartbleiotgrfraatrhlyebfyruenamctasioerknris.esaotBftuhptearIetincwduolouafrldianctmheigeerfmlaylosi,rrebcaoynmdthmiinsetnradoudtuhthcoeirngp"etOrhune
the Integration of some linear partial Differential Equations ;
                                                                 of the Motion of Elastic
aFnludidps.a"rticuTloarltyhethme egmeonierrailtseElqfuIatbioeng
                                                                 to refer, by the way, as
presenting a demonstration of the constancy of the velocity of
propagation from an irregular disturbance in an elastic fluid,
more simple and direct than that in the Journal de I'Ecole Po-

lytechnique. It contains also a general integral of the linear
partial differential equation of three terms, which occurs in the
problem of waves for the case in which the three dimensions of
the fluid are taken account of; but the author does not consider
this integral of much utility, because of the impossible quantities
involved in and rather recommends the method of express
                    it,
                                                                      is
                                                                                is

                                                                                                   a
ing the      tphrein"cTiphael ovrayriaobfleWabvyeisnf"intihteis  series  of exponentials. In
fact, in                                                         case
                                                                          treated in manner
                                                                                    made of one
exactly analogous to that in which abstraction
dimension of the fluid.
It may be useful to state some of the principal results ob
tained by theory respecting the nature of waves, to give an idea
of what the independent power of analysis has been able to ef

fect.
With respect, first, to the canal of uniform width, the law of
the velocity of propagation found by Lagrange confirmed by
M. Poisson's theory when the depth                               is
                                                                                is
                                                                 small, but not other

wise.

When the canal of unlimited depth, the following are the
chief results       :

                               is

   (1.) An impulse        given    to any  point                 of the surface affects in
                         whole     extent  of the                fluid mass. The theory
stantaneously the
determines the magnitude and direction of the initial velocity of

eac(h2.)pa"rtTichlee  resulting froma   given impulse.
                                      wave moves with
                      summit of each                                     uniformly acce
                                                                 a
lerated motion."                                                         a

                                                                                        is

                                                                                                       :
This must be understood to refer to series of very small
waves, called by M. Poisson dents, which perform their move
                         on the surface of  the larger waves, which he
mcaellnsts"  as it were  denteUes." Each    wave of the series found
             les  ondes
to have its proper velocity, independent of the primitive im
pulse. Waves of this kind have been actually observed they
are small from the first, and quickly disappear.

  l2(3.) At considerable distances from the place of disturbance,
   148 THIRD REPORT-- 1833.

   there are waves of much more sensible magnitude than the pre
   ceding. Their summits are propagated with a uniform velocity,
   which varies as the square root of the breadth afleur a"eau of
   the fluid originally disturbed. Yet the different waves which
   are formed in succession are propagated with different veloci
   ties : the foremost travels swiftest. The amplitude of oscilla
   tions of equal duration are reciprocally proportional to the
   square root of the distances from the point of disturbance.

      (4.) The vertical excursions of the particles situated directly

   below the primitive impulse, vary according to the inverse ratio

   of the depth below the surface. This law of decrease is not so
   rapid but that the motion will be very sensible at very consider
   able depths : it will not be the true law, as the theory proves,

   when the original disturbance extends over the whole surface
   of the water, for the decrease of motion in this case will be

   much more rapid.
      The results of the theory, when the three dimensions of the

   fluid are considered, are analogous to the preceding, (1), (2), (3),

   (4), and may be stated in the same terms, excepting that the am

   plitudes of the oscillations are inversely as the distances from
   the origin of disturbance, and the vertical excursions of the par

   ticles situated directly below the disturbance vary inversely as
   the square of the depth.
   There is a good analysis of M. Poisson's theory, and a com
   parison of many of the results with experiments, in a Treatise
   by M.  WTehbeere,xpeenrtiimtleedntsWoelfleMnle. hWreebearufwEerxepemriamdeenitne
   det*.                                                                             a  gegrun-
                                                                                         manner

   not sufficiently agreeing with the conditions supposed in the
   theory to be a correct test of it. They, however, manifest a
   general accordance with and confirm the existence of the
   is
     it
                is
                                        it,
                                                               it
                                                                           is
                                                                                                                a
   small accelerated waves near the place of disturbance, and of
   sensible motion of the fluid particles at considerable depths
   below the surface. In one particular, in which the theory ad
   mits of easy comparison with experiment,
                                               not found to

   agree. When the body employed to cause the initial agitation
   of the water an elliptic paraboloid, with its vertex downwards
   and axis vertical, and consequently the section in the plane of
   the surface of the water an ellipse, theory determines the velo
   city of propagation to be greater in the direction of the major
   axis than in that of the minor in the proportion of the square
   root of the one to the square root of the other. This result,
   which must be confessed has not an appearance of probabi
   lity, not borne out by experience.

                             · Leipzig, 1825.

^
REPORT ON HYDROSTATICS AND HYDRODYNAMICS.                                                149

   The theory has been also put to the test of experiment                                by
M. Bidone, who succeeded in overcoming in great measure                                  an
obstacle in the way of making the experiments according to the
conditions supposed in the theory, arising from the adhesion of
the water to the immersed body*. His observations confirm
the existence and laws of motion of the accelerated waves.

   V. Scarcely anything worth mentioning has been effected
by theory in regard to the resistance of fluids to bodies moving
in them. The defect of every attempt hitherto made has

arisen from its proceeding upon some hypothesis respecting

the law of the resistance ; for instance, that it varies as the ve
locity, or as the square of the velocity: whereas the law, which
cannot be known a priori, ought to be a result of the calcula
tion, which should embrace not only the motion of the body,
but that of every particle of the fluid which moves simulta
neously with it. The only problem that has been attempted
to be solved on this principle, is one of very considerable in
terest, relating to the correction to be applied to the pendulum
stoone,ff"ecOt nthtehereSdiumcutilotannetoousa             The memoir of M. Pois-
                                                vacuum.   of a Pendulum and of the
                                                 Motions
surrounding Air," was read before the Royal Academy of Paris
in August 1831, and is inserted in vol. xi. of their Memoir es.
He takes the case of a spherical ball suspended by a very slen
der thread, the effect of which is neglected in the calculations;
the ball is supposed to perform oscillations of very small ampli
tude, so that the air in contact with its surface is sensibly the

same during the motion. A simpler problem of resistance can
not be conceived. M. Poisson considers the effect which the
friction of the particles of air against the surface of the ball

may have on its motion, and comes to the conclusion that the
time of the oscillations is not affected by but only their ex
in
                                         of

                                                        it,
                                                                             of
tent. The most important result of the theoretical calculation
is, that the correction which has been usually applied for the
reduction to a vacuum, and calculated without considering the
motion of the air, must be increased by one half. This he finds
to agree sufficiently with some experiments of Captain Sabine.
He also adduces forty-four experiments of Dubuat, made fifty

years ago, upon oscillations in water, and three upon oscilla
tions in air. These give nearly the same numerical result, and
agreeing nearly with the value 1J. The experiments, however,
of M. Bessel give results which coincide with Dubuat's for os
cillations water, but determine the correction in air for re

duction to a vacuum to be very nearly double that hitherto

· See vol. xxv. of the Memoirs the Royal Academy                                 Turin.
150 THIRD REPORT -- 18S3.

applied, instead of once and a half. M. Poisson thinks that
the calculations of M. Bessel leave some room for doubt, and
objects to the discordance of the values obtained for air and
water, which, according to his own theory, ought to agree.
More recent experiments of Mr. Baily *, which, from their num

ber and variety, and the care taken in performing them, are
entitled to the utmost confidence, give the value 1-864 for
spheres of different materials one inch and a half in diameter,
and 1 -748 for spheres two inches in diameter, the latter being
nearly the size of those for which M. Bessel obtained l-946.
The theory of M. Poisson does not recognise any difference in
the value of the coefficient for spheres of different diameters.
The discrepancies that thus appear between theory and expe
riment, and between the experiments themselves, show that

there is much that requires clearing up in this important sub
ject. As far as theory is concerned, it is easily conceivable that
much must depend upon the way in which the law of trans
mission of the motion from the parts of the fluid immediately

acted on by the sphere to the parts more remote is to be deter
Imined : and, as it is the province of this Report to point out

any possible source of error in theory, will venture again
to express my doubts of the correctness of the principle em
ployed in the solution of this problem, of making the deter
mination of the law of transmission depend on the arbitrary
discontinuity of the functions introduced by integration, the law
itself  not being arbitrary f.
                                 to  the  resistance  to  the  motion  of
  A     singular fact, relating

bodies partly immersed in water, has been recently established
by experiments on canal navigation, by which it appears that a
boat, drawn with a velocity of more than four or five miles an
hour, rises perceptibly out of the water, so that the water-line
is not so distant from the keel as in a state of rest, and the re

sistance is less than it would be if no such effect took place.

Theory, although it has never predicted anything of this na
ture, now that the fact is proposed for explanation, will proba
bly soon be able to account for it on known mechanical prin

ciples.

The foregoing review of the theory of fluid motion, incom

  f· Philosophical Transactions for 1832, p. 399.

      In an attempt at this problem made by myself, and published subsequently
to the Meeting of the Association, the value of the coefficient is found to be 2,
without accounting for any difference for spheres of different diameters. See
the London and Edinburgh Philosophical Magazine and Journal for Septem

ber 1833.
REPORT ON HYDROSTATICS AND HYDRODYNAMICS.  151

plete as it may suffice to show that this department of science
   in an extremely imperfect state. Possibly may on that ac

count be the more likely to receive improvements and am
disposed to think that such will be the case. But these im
provements, expect, will be available not so much in practical
applications, as in reference to the great physical questions of
light, heat and electricity, which have been so long the subjects
of experiment, and the theories of which require to be perfected.
For this purpose a more complete knowledge of the analytical
calculation proper for the treatment of fluids in motion may be

of great utility.
is

            I is,

                                                                     it

                                                                                                                                     ;

                                                          I
               [ 153 ]

Report on the Progress and Present State of    ourBKynoGweloedrggee
of Hydraulics  as a Branch   of  Engineering.
Rennie, Esq.,               §c.
               F.R.S., %c.

                                Part I.

The paper now communicated to the British Association for
the Advancement of Science comprises a Report on the pro
gress and present state of our knowledge of Hydraulics as a
branch of Engineering, with reference to the principles already

established on that subject.
   Technically speaking, the term hydraulics signifies that

branch of the science of hydrodynamics which treats of the
motion of fluids issuing from orifices and tubes in reservoirs,
or moving in pipes, canals or rivers, oscillating in waves, or

opWpoesincganarreeasdisitlyanicmeagtionethtehaptroigfraeshsoloefosfogliidvebnoddieims eantsiorensst. be

pierced in the sides or bottom of a vessel kept constantly full,
the expenditure ought to be measured by the amplitude of the

Ifopening, and the height of the liquid column.

        we isolate the column above the orifice by a tube, it ap
pears evident that the fluid will fall freely, and follow the laws
of gravity. But experiment proves that this is not exactly the
case, on account of the resistances and forces which act in a
contrary direction, and destroy part of, or the whole, effect.
The development of these forces is so extremely complicated
that it becomes necessary to adopt some auxiliary hypothesis
or abbreviation in order to obtain approximate results. Hence
the science of hydrodynamics is entirely indebted to experi
ment. The fundamental problem of it is to determine the efflux
of a vein of water or any other fluid issuing from an aperture
made in the sides or bottom of a vessel kept constantly full, or
allowed to empty itself. Torricelli had demonstrated that,
abstracting the resistances, the velocities of fluids issuing from
very small orifices followed the subduplicate ratio of the pres
sures. This law had been, in a measure, confused by sub
sequent writers, in consequence of the discrepancies which
appeared to exist between the theory and experiment ; until
Varignon remarked, that when water escaped from a small
opening made in the bottom of a cylindrical vessel, there ap
peared to be very little, or scarcely any, sensible motion in the
154 THIRD REPORT 1833.

particles of the water ; from which he concluded that the law
of acceleration existed, and that the particles which escaped at
every instant of time received their motion simply from the
pressure produced by the weight of the fluid column above the
orifice, and that the weight of this column of fluid ought to
represent the pressure on the particles which continually escape
from the orifice; and that the quantity of motion or expenditure
is in the ratio of the breadth of the orifice, multiplied by the
square of the velocity, or, in other words, that the height of
the water in the vessel is proportional to the square of the ve
locity with which it escapes ; which is precisely the theorem of
Torricelli. This mode of reasoning is in some degree vague,
because it supposes that the small mass which escapes from
the vessel at each instant of time acquires its velocity from the
pressure of the column immediately above the orifice. But
supposing, as is natural, that the weight of the column acts on
the particle during the time it takes to issue from the vessel, it
is clear that this particle will receive an accelerated motion,
whose quantity in a given time will be proportional to the
pressure multiplied by the time: hence the product of the
weight of the column by the time of its issuing from the orifice,
will be equal to the product of the mass of this particle by the
velocity it will have acquired ; and as the mass is the product
of the opening of the orifice, by the small space which the
particle describes in issuing from the orifice, it follows that the
height of the column will be as the square of the velocity ac
quired. This theory is the more correct the more the fluid
approaches to a perfect state of repose, and the more the
dimensions of the vessel exceed the dimensions of the orifice.
By a contrary mode of reasoning this theory became insufficient
                          of fluids   through pipes of small dia
to determine the motions
                          therefore,   to consider all the motions
meters. It is necessary,
of the particles of fluids, and examine how they are changed
and altered by the figure of the conduit. But experiment teaches
us that when a pipe has a different direction from the vertical
one, the different horizontal sections of the fluid preserve their
parallelism, the sections following taking the place of the pre
ceding ones, and so on ; from which it follows (on account of
the incompressibility of the fluid) that the velocity of each
horizontal section or plate, taken vertically, ought to be in

the inverse ratio of the diameter of the section. It suffices,
therefore, to determine the motion of a single section, and the
problem then becomes analogous to the vibration of a com
pound pendulum, by which, according to the theory of James
Bernoulli, the motions acquired and lost at each instant of time
       ON HYDRAULICS AS A BRANCH OF ENGINEERING.                                           155

form an equilibrium, as may be supposed to take place with
the different sections of          a fluid in
animated with velocities           acquired     a pipe,    each section being
                                               and lost     at every instant of

time.
The theory of Bernoulli had not been proposed by him until
long after the discovery of the indirect principle of vis viva by
Huygens. The same was the case with the problem of the mo
tions of fluids issuing from vessels, and it is surprising that no
advantage had been taken of it earlier. Michelotti, in his experi
mental researches de Separatione Fluidorum in Corpore Ani-
tnali, in rejecting the theory of the Newtonian cataract, (which
had been advanced in Newton's Mathematical Principles, in
the year 1687, but afterwards corrected in the year 1714,) sup
poses the water to escape from an orifice in the bottom of a
vessel kept constantly full, with a velocity produced by the
height of the superior surface ; and that immediately above
the lowest plate of water escaping from the orifice, the column
                                                       if,

                                                                                ;
of water be frozen, the weight of the column will have no effect
on the velocity of the water issuing from the orifice and that

this solid column be at once changed to its liquid state, the
if ifeffect will remain the same. The Marquis Poleni, in his work
De Castellis per quce derivantur Fluviorum Aquce, published at
      2APadua in the year 1718, shows, from many experiments, that
          a
                           2be the orifice, and H the height of the column above it,
                            itthe quantity of water which issues in given time represented
                                      if                   ; is
by A H x j^TM, whereas                                         a
                                          it                        it

                                                    a                if
                                               spouted out from the orifice

with velocity       aAcqHui,resdo  by falling from     the height H, ought
to be exactly                      that experiment     only gives little more
than half the quantity promised by the theory hence, we

were to calculate from these experiments the velocity that the
water ought to have to furnish the necessary quantity, we
                                                       it
should find that would hardly make reascend |rd of its

height. These experiments would have been quite contrary
to expectation, had not Sir Isaac Newton observed that water
                                o|tfhtsheofoarnificinec, hsointdhiaatmtehteerc,ywliansdecronotfrawcatetedr
issuing from        an orifice
                    diameter
|jths of the
which actually issued was less than ought to have been,
                                                       it

                                                                                        ;
according to the theory, in the ratio of 441 to 625 and aug
                    in this proportion, the opening should have been
menting
2

                 1

             it
A H .fyyy or £ths of the quantity which ought to have issued

on the supposition that the velocity was in the ratio of the;it
square root of the height from which was inferred that the
theory was correct, but that the discrepancy was owing to cer
 15G THIRD REPORT 1833.

tain resistances, which experiment could alone determine. The
accuracy of the general conclusion was affected by several
assumptions, namely, the perfect fluidity and sensibility of the
mass, which was neither affected by friction nor cohesion, and
an infinitely small thickness in the edge of the aperture.

    Daniel Bernoulli, in his great work, Hydrodynamica, seu de
 Viribus et Motibus Fluidorum Commentaria, published at Stras-
burgh in the year 1738, in considering the efflux of water from
an orifice in the bottom of a vessel, conceives the fluid to be
divided into an infinite number of horizontal strata, on the fol
lowing suppositions, namely, that the upper surface of the fluid
always preserves its horizontality ; that the fluid forms a con
tinuous mass ; that the velocities vary by insensible gradations,
like those of heavy bodies ; and that every point of the same
stratum descends vertically with the same velocity, which is
inversely proportional to the area of the base of the stratum ;
that all sections thus retaining their parallelism are contiguous,
and change their velocities imperceptibly ; and that there is
always an equality between the vertical descent and ascent, or
vis viva : hence he arrives, by a very simple and elegant pro
cess, to the equations of the problem, and applies its general
formulae to several cases of practical utility. When the figure
of the vessel is not subject to the law of continuity, or when
sudden and finite changes take place in the velocities of the
sections, there is a loss of vis viva, and the equations require
to be modified. John Bernoulli and Maclaurin arrived at the
same conclusions by different steps, somewhat analogous to the
cataract of Newton. The investigations of D'Alembert had
been directed principally to the dynamics of solid bodies, until
it occurred to him to apply them to fluids ; but in following the
steps of Bernoulli he discovered a formula applicable to the
motions of fluid, and reducible to the ordinary laws of hydro
statics. The application of his theory to elastic and non-elastic
bodies, and the determination of the motions of fluids in flexible
pipes, together with his investigations relative to the resistance
of pipes, place him high in the ranks of those who have contri
buted to the perfection of the science.

   The celebrated Euler, to whom every branch of science owes
such deep obligations, seems to have paid particular attention
to the subject of hydrodynamics ; and in attempting to reduce
the whole of it to uniform and general formulae, he exhibited a
beautiful example of the application of analytical investigation
to the solution of a great variety of problems for which he was
so famous. The Memoirs of the Academy of Berlin, from the
year 1768 to 1771, contain numerous papers relative to fluids
ON HYDRAULICS AS A BRANCH OF ENGINEERING.                           157

flowing from orifices in               ve"sBseulst,  and through    pipes of constant
osarysvaMria.bPlerondyia,me"tethrsa.t                it is greatly
                                                                    to be regretted,"
                                       Euler had not treated of friction and
cohesion, as his theory of the linear motion of air would have
applied to the motions of fluids through pipes and conduits,
had he not always reasoned on the hypotheses of mathematical
fluidity, independently of the resistances which modify it."
In the year 1765 a very complete work was published at
Milan by Paul Lecchi, a celebrated Milanese engineer, entitled
Idrostatica esaminata ne1 suoi Principi e Stabilite nelle suoi
Regole delta Mensura della Accrue correnti, containing a com
plete examination of all the different theories which had been
proposed to explain the phaenomena of effluent water, and the
doctrine of the resistance of fluids. The author treats of the
velocity and quantity of water, whether absolutely or relatively,
which issues from orifices in vessels and reservoirs, according
to their different altitudes, and inquires how far the law applies
to masses of water flowing in canals and rivers, the velocities
and quantities of which he gives the methods of measuring.
The extensive and successful practice of Lecchi as an engineer
added much to the reputation of his work *.
In the year 1764 Professor Michelotti of Turin undertook,
at the expense of the King of Sardinia, a very extensive series
of experiments on running water issuing through orifices and
additional tubes placed at different heights in a tower of the
finest masonry, twenty feet in height and three feet square
inside. The water was supplied by a channel two feet in width,
and under pressures of from five to twenty-two feet. The
effluent waters were conveyed into a reservoir of ample area,
by canals of brick-work lined with stucco, and having various
forms and declivities; and the experiments, particularly on the
efflux of water through differently shaped orifices, and addi
tional tubes of different lengths, were most numerous and
                Michelotti was the                   ifnirstthewhfiogugraeveofretphreesfelunitdativoenisn,
accurate, and    which take place

of the changes
after it has issued from the orifice. His experiments on the
velocities of rivers, by means of the bent tube of Pitot, and by
an instrument resembling a water-wheel, called the stadera
idraulica, are numerous and interesting ; but, unfortunately,
their reduction is complicated with such various circumstances
that it is difficult to derive from them any satisfactory conclu
sions. But Michelotti is justly entitled to the merit of having
made the greatest revolution in the science by experimental

· See also Memorie Idrostaticwtoriche, 1773.
158 THIRD REPORT 1833.

investigation *. The example of Michelotti gave a fresh sti
mulus to the exertions of the French philosophers, to whom,
after the Italians, the science owes the greatest obligations.
Accordingly, the Abbe Bossut, a most zealous and enlight
ened cultivator of hydrodynamics, undertook, at the expense
of the French Government, a most extensive and accurate se
ries of experiments, which he published in the year 1771,
and a more enlarged edition, in two volumes, in the year
1786, entitled Traits Tkeorique et Experimental d'Hydro-
namique. The first volume treats of the general principles of
hydrostatics and hydraulics, including the pressure and equili
brium of non-elastic and elastic fluids against inflexible and
flexible vessels ; the thickness of pipes to resist the pressure
of stagnant fluids; the rise of water in barometers and pumps,
and the pressure and equilibrium of floating bodies ; the ge
neral principles of the motions of fluids through orifices of dif
ferent shapes, and their friction and resistance against the
orifices ; the oscillations of water in siphons ; the percussion
and resistance of fluids against solids ; and machines moved by
the action and reaction of water. The second volume gives a
great variety of experiments on the motions of water through
orifices and pipes and fountains ; their resistances in rectan
gular or curvilinear channels, and against solids moving through
them ; and lastly, of the fire- or steam-engine. In the course
of these experiments he found that when the water flowed
through an orifice in a thin plate, the contraction of the fluid
vein diminished the discharge in the ratio of 16 to 10; and when
the fluid was discharged through an additional tube, two or

three inches in length, the theoretical discharge was diminished

only in the ratio of 16 to 13. In examining the effects of fric
tion, Bossut found that small orifices discharged less water in
proportion than large ones, on account of friction, and that, as
the height of the reservoir augmented, the fluid vein contracted

likewise ; and by combining these two circumstances together,
he has furnished the means of measuring with precision the

quantity of water discharged either from simple orifices or
additional tubes, whether the vessels be constantly full, or be
allowed to empty themselves. He endeavoured to point out
the law by which the diminution of expenditure takes place,
according to the increase in the length of the pipe or the num
ber of its bends ; he examined the effect of friction in dimi
nishing the velocity of a stream in rectangular and curvilinear
channels ; and showed that in an open canal, with the same

                              · Sperimenti Idraulici, 1767 and 1771.
       ON HYDRAULICS AS A BRANCH OF EGINEERING.                                              159

height of reservoir, the same quantity of water is always dis

charged, whatever be the declivity and length ; that the ve
locities of the waters in the canal are not as the square roots

of the declivities, and that in equal declivities and depth of the
canal the velocities are not exactly as the quantities of water
discharged ; and he considers the variations which take place
in the velocity and level of the waters when two rivers unite,
and the manner in which they establish their beds.
   His experiments, in conjunction with D'Alembert and Con-
dorcet, on the resistance of fluids, in the year 1777, and his
subsequent application of them to all kinds of surfaces, in
cluding the shock and resistance of water-wheels, have justly
entitled him to the gratitude of posterity. The Abbe- Bossut
had opened out a new career of experiments ; but the most dif
ficult and important problem remaining to be solved related to

rivers. It was easy to perform experiments with water running
through pipes and conduits on a small scale, under given and
determined circumstances : but when the mass of fluid rolled
in channels of unequal capacities, and which were composed of
every kind of material, from the rocks amongst which it accu
maingugel,aa--tecdaaltmtfoiartsnhtdeamgrraaajevpseidtlicaanncdodusirmasnepd,e--ttuhosrouomsuegtthoimrwreeshnitfco,hrbmiuttinfoglarctsetaednrdlya-bahpnoaklsdss
and islands, at other times destroying them, at all times capri
                                                                    direction by
cious, and subject to     --vairtiaatipopneariend   its force and   submit them
the slightest obstacles,                             impossible to

to any general law.
Unappalled, however, by these difficulties, the Chevalier
Buat, after perusing attentively M. Bossut's work, undertook
to solve them by means of a theorem which appeared to him
             kiefywaotferthweaws hinolea            of hydraulics.                  He
to be  the                                 science  state of fluidity,             and    consi
dered  that                               perfect                                         ran in

a bed from which it experienced no resistance whatever, its
motion would be constantly accelerated, like the motion of a
heavy body descending an inclined plane ; but as the velocity
of a river is not accelerated ad infinitum, but arrives at a state
of uniformity, it follows that there exists some obstacle which
destroys the accelerating force, and prevents it from impressing
upon the water a new degree of velocity. This obstacle must
therefore be owing either to the viscidity of the water, or to
the resistance it experiences             faoglaloinwsitngtheprbiendcipolfet:h--e  river     from
which Dubuat derives the                                                           That   ;  when

water runs uniformly in any channel, the accelerating force
which obliges it to run is equal to the sum of all the resistances
which it experiences, whether arising from the viscidity of the
water or the friction of its bed. Encouraged by this discovery,
160 THIRD REPORT 1833.

and by the application of its principles to the solution of a great
many cases in practice, Dubuat was convinced that the motion
of water in a conduit pipe was analogous to the uniform motion
of a river, since in both cases gravity was the cause of motion,
and the resistance of the channel or perimeter of the pipes the
modifiers. He then availed himself of the experiments of Bossut
on conduit pipes and artificial channels to explain his theory :
the results of which investigations were published in the year
1779. M. Dubuat was, however, sensible that a theory of so
much novelty, and at variance with the then received theory,

required to be supported by experiments more numerous and
direct than those formerly undertaken, as he was constrained
to suppose that the friction of the water did not depend upon
the pressure, but on the surface and square of the velocity.

Accordingly, he devoted three years to making fresh experi
ments, and, with ample funds and assistance provided by the
French Government, was enabled to publish his great work,
entitled Principes d'Hydraulique verifies par un grand nombre
d 'Experiences, faites par Ordre du Gouvernement, 2 vols. 1786,
(a third  vaoplupmeaer,edenitnitle1d816P)r; i--nciinpethse  d'Hydraulique et Hydro-
namique,                                                    first instance, by repeating
and enlarging the scale of Bossut's experiments on pipes (with
water running in them) of different inclinations or angles, of
\from 90° to 40300th part of a right angle, and in channels of from

] line in diameter to 7 and 8 square toises of surface, and sub
sequently to water running in open channels, in which he ex
perienced great difficulties in rendering the motion uniform :
but he was amply recompensed by the results he obtained on
the diminution of the velocity of the different parts of a uniform
current, and of the relation of the velocities at the surface and

bottom, by which the water works its own channel, and by the
knowledge of the resistances which different kinds of beds pro

duce, such as clay, sand and gravel ; and varying the experiments

on the effect of sluices, and the piers of bridges, &c, he was ena

bled to obtain a formula applicable to most cases in practice*.

  Thus, let V = mean velocity per second, in inches.
          d = hydraulic mean depth, or quotient which arises
          from dividing the area or section of the canal,
          in square inches, by the perimeter of the part
                   in contact with the water, in linear inches.
          s = the slope or declivity of the pipe, or the sur

                  face of the water.
          g = 16-087, the velocity in inches which a body
          acquires in falling one second of time.

* Edinburgh Encyclopedia, Art. Hydrodynamics, by Brewster.
       ON HYDRAULICS AS A BRANCH OF ENGINEERING.                 161

              n = an abstract number, which was           found  by ex
                          periment to be equal to 243-7.
                                                           _      '
       ,then = SSs-^loygd. -*O/s -+l)1-6 _ v

Such are some of the objects of M. Dubuat's work. But his

hypotheses are unfortunately founded upon assumptions which

render the applications of his theory of little use. It is evident
that the supposition of a constant and uniform velocity in rivers

cannot hold : nevertheless he has rendered great services to
the science by the solution of many important questions relating
to it ; and although he has left on some points a vast field open
to research, he is justly entitled to the merit of originality and

accuracy.

   Contemporary with Dubuat was M. Chezy, one of the most
skilful engineers of his time : he was director of the Ecole des
Ponts et Chauss£es, and reported, conjointly with M. Perronet,
on the Canal Yvette. He endeavoured to assign, by experiment,
the relation existing between the inclination, length, trans
versal section, and velocity of a canal. In the course of this
investigation he obtained a very simple expression of the velo

city, involving  three   different variable quantities, and   capable,
by means of a    single                                       all cur
                         experiment, of being applied to
rents whatever. He assimilates the resistance of the sides and
bottom of the canal to known resistances, which follow the law
of the square of the velocity, and he obtains the following sim
ple formula:

t=     SJl,      whereof is  =  16-087  feet,  the  velocity  acquired

       zs

            by a heavy body after falling one second.
   d = hydraulic mean depth, equal to the area of the section

           divided by the perimeter of the part of the canal in
            contact with the water.
   s = the slope or declivity of the pipe.
   * = an abstract number, to be determined by experiment.
   In the year 1784, M. Lespinasse published in the Memoirs
of the Academy of Sciences at Toulouse two papers, contain
ing some interesting observations on the expenditure of water
through large orifices, and on the junction and separation of
rivers. The author had performed the experiments contained
in his last paper on the rivers Fresquel and Aude, and on that
part of the canal of Languedoc below the Fresquel lock, towards
its junction with that river.
   As we before stated, M. Dubuat had classified with much

1833.                           m
162             THIRD REPORT 1833.

sagacity his observations on the different kinds of resistance
experienced in the motion of fluids, and which might have led
him to express the sum of the resistances by a rational function
of the velocity composed of two or three terms only. Yet the
merit of this                                                   M. Coulomb,   who,
in a beautiful  dpeatpeermr, ineantitoitnledwa"s   reserved to               deter
                                                  Expériences   destinees a
miner la Coherence des Fluides et les Lois de leurs Resistances

dans les Mouvemens tres lents," proves, by reasoning and facts,

   1st, That in extremely slow motions the part of the resist
ance is proportional to the square of the velocity.

   2ndly, That the resistance is not sensibly increased by in
creasing the height of the fluid above the resisting body.
   3rdly, That the resistance arises solely from the mutual co

hesion of the fluid particles, and not from their adhesion to the

body upon which they act.
   4thly, That the resistance in clarified oil, at the temperature

of 69° Fahrenheit, is to that of water as 17-5 : 1 ; a proportion
which expresses the ratio of the mutual cohesion of the par
ticles of oil to the mutual cohesion of the particles of water.
M. Coulomb concludes his experiments by ascertaining the

resistance experienced by cylinders that move very slowly and
perpendicularly to their axes, &c.
This eminent philosopher, who had applied the doctrine of
torsion with such distinguished success in investigating the
pha;nomena of electricity and magnetism, entertained the idea
of examining in a similar manner the resistance of fluids, con
trary to the doctrines of resistance previously laid down.
M. Coulomb proved, that in the resistance of fluids against
solids, there was no constant quantity of sufficient magnitude
to be detected ; and that the pressure sustained by a moving
body is represented by two terms, one which varies as the
simple velocity, and the other with its square.
   The apparatus with which these results were obtained con
sisted of discs of various sizes, which were fixed to the lower
extremity of a brass wire, and were made to oscillate under a
fluid by the force of torsion of the wire. By observing the
successive diminution of the oscillations, the law of resistance
was easily found. The oscillations which were best suited to

these experiments continued for twenty or thirty seconds, and
the amplitude of the oscillation (that gave the most regular re
sults) was between 480 the entire division of the disc, and 8 or
10 divisions from zero.
   The first who had the happy idea of applying the law of
Coulomb to the case of the velocities of water running in na
tural or artificial channels was M. Girard, Ingenieur en chef
ON HYDRAULICS AS A BRANCH OF ENGINEERING.                          163

des Ponts et Chaussees, and Director of the Works of the
Canal l'Ourcq at Paris *.

   He is the author of several papers on the theory of running
waters, and of a valuable series of experiments on the motions
of fluids in capillary tubes.

   M. Coulomb had given a common coefficient to the two terms
of his formula representing the resistance of a fluid, --one pro
portional to the simple velocity, the other to the square of the
velocity. M. Girard found that this identity of the coefficients
was applicable only to particular fluids under certain circum
stances ; and his conclusions were confirmed by the researches
of M. Prony, derived from a great many experiments, which
make the coefficients not only different, but very inferior to the
value of the motion of the filaments of the water contiguous to
the side of the pipe.

   The object of M. Girard's experiments was to determine
this velocity ; and this he has effected in a very satisfactory
manner, by means of twelve hundred experiments, performed
with a series of copper tubes, from 1-83 to 2-96 millimetres in
diameter, and from 20 to 222 centimetres in length ; from which
it appeared, that when the velocity was expressed by 10, and

the temperature was 0, centigrade, the velocity was increased

four times when the temperature amounted to 85°. When the
length of the capillary tube was below that limit, a variation of
temperature exercised very little influence upon the velocity
of the issuing fluid, &c.

   It was in this state of the science that M. Prony (then having

under his direction different projects for canals,) undertook to
reduce the solutions of many important problems on running
water to the most strict and rigorous principles, at the same
time capable of being applied with facility to practice.

   For this purpose he selected fifty-one experiments which
corresponded best on conduit pipes, and thirty-one on open
conduits. Proceeding, therefore, on M. Girard's theory of the
analogy between fluids and a system of corpuscular solids or
material bodies, gravitating in a curvilinear channel of indefinite
length, and occupying and abandoning successively the dif
ferent parts of the length of channel, he was enabled to express
the velocity of the water, whether it flows in pipes or in open
conduits, by a simple formula, free of logarithms, and requiring
merely the extraction of the square rootf.

   · Essai sur le Mouvement des Eaux courantes: Paris 1804.        Recherchcs

fsur les Eaux publiques, §c. Devis general du Canal l'Ourcq, Sfc.
     Memoir es des Savons Elrangers, M#c2. 1815.
-164                THIRD REPORT 1833.
   Thus v =
             0-0469734 + 4/0-0022005 + 3041-47 x G,

-which gives the velocity in metres : or, in English feet,
           v = 0-1541131 + vTHB375i + 32806-6 x G.
this formula is applied to pipes, we must take G =          £ D K,
jWhen
                                                            When
which
is deduced   from  the equation  K=H+  Z =H
                                                         .

it is applied to canals, we must take G = R I, which is deduced

Ifrom the equation = j-, R being equal to the mean radius of
Dubuat on the hydraulic mean depth, and I equal to the sine

of inclination in the pipe or canal. M. Prony has drawn up ex
tensive Tables, in which he has compared the observed velo
cities with those which are calculated from the preceding for
mulae, and from those of Dubuat and Girard. In both cases
the coincidence of the observed results with the formulae are
very remarkable, but particularly with the formulae of M. Prony.
But the great work of M. Prony is his Nouvelle Architecture
Hydraulique, published in the year 1790. This able produc
tion is divided into five sections, viz. Statics, Dynamics, Hydro
statics, Hydrodynamics, and on the physical circumstances
that influence the motions of Machines. The chapter on hydro
dynamics is particularly copious and explanatory of the motions
of compressible and incompressible fluids in pipes and vessels,
on the principle of the parallelism of the fluid filaments, and
the efflux of water through different kinds of orifices made in
vessels kept constantly full, or permitted to empty themselves ;
he details the theory of the clepsydra, and the curves described
by spouting fluids ; and having noticed the different phaenomena
of the contraction of the fluid vein, and given an account of the ex
periments of Bossut, M. Prony deduces formulae by which the re
sults may be expressed with all the accuracy required in practice.

   In treating of the impulse and resistance of fluids, M. Prony
explains the theory of Don George Juan, which he finds con
formable to the experiments of Smeaton, but to differ very ma
terially from the previously received law of the product of the
surfaces by the squares of the velocities, as established by the
joint experiments of D'Alembert, Condorcet and Bossut, in the
year 1775. The concluding part of the fourth section is de
voted to an examination of the theory of the equilibrium and
motion of fluids according to Euler and D'Alembert; and by a
rigorous investigation of the nature of the questions to be de
termined, the whole theory is reduced to two equations only, in
narrow pipes, according to the theory of Euler, showing its
approximation to the hypothesis of the parallelism of filaments.
ON HYDRAULICS AS A BRANCH OF ENGINEERING.                                   165

The fifth and last section investigates the different circum
Atshtaencmeosti(osnuschoafsmfaricchtiinoens,. adhesion and rigidity,) which influence

       second volume, published in the year 1796, is devoted to
the theory and practice of the steam-engine. Previously to the
memoir of M. Prony, Sur le Jaugeage des Eaux courantes, in
the year 1802, no attempt had been made to establish with cer
tainty the correction to be applied to the theoretical expendi
tures of fluids through orifices and additional tubes. The phe
nomenon had been long noticed by Sir Isaac Newton, and illus
trated by Michelotti by a magnificent series of experiments,
which, although involving some intricacies, have certainly
formed the groundwork of all the subsequent experiments upon

this particular subject.
By the method of interpolation, M. Prony has succeeded in
discovering a series of formulae applicable to the expenditures
of currents out of vertical and horizontal orifices, and to the con
traction of the fluid vein ; and in a subsequent work, entitled
Recherches sur leM.ouve.mens des Eaux courantes, he establishes
                                                                of rivers.
theWfhoellonwiVng=fovrmeluolcaitey  for   the  mean velocities
                                      at  the  surface,
and U = mean velocity,
U = 0-816458 V,
   which is about £ V.

These velocities are determined by two methods. 1st, By a
small water-wheel for the velocity at the surface, and the im
proved tube of Pitot for the velocities at different depths below

theIfshurf=aceth. e height of the water in the vertical tube above the

level of the current, the velocity due to this height will be deter-

Vmined by the formula V = V2gh =               /metret

                                                 19-606 h = 4-4-29 »//i.
When water runs in channels, the inclination usually given
amounts to between yfoth and g^th part of the length, which
will give a velocity of nearly 1^ mile per hour, sufficient to
allow the water to run freely in earth. We have seen the incli
nation very conveniently applied in cases of drainage at jj^jb*0
and xVbtj^'  ano- some              rivers are said to have guV^h 0IMV-
   M. Prony  gives the              following formulae, from a great number
of observations :

  If U = mean velocity of the water in the canal,
      I = the inclination of the canal per metre,
R = the relation of the area to the profile of its perimeter,
-we shall have
               U=  0-07 + v^OOo^FSj^JTR . I ;
166                 THIRD REPORT 1833.

and for conduit pipes,

calling U = the mean velocity,

       LZ = the head of water in the inferior orifice of the pipe,

              = the length of the pipe in metres,
          D = the diameter of the pipe,

-we shall have
     U = DZ0-0248829 + */ 0^000619159 + 717857

or, where the velocity is small,

                      U = 26-79 j/DZ;
                                      L

that is, the mean velocities approximate to a direct ratio com
pounded of the squares of the diameters and heads of water,
and inversely as the square root of the length of the pipes :
and by experiments made with great care, M. Prony has found
-that the formula
      U = 0-0248829 + ^0-000619159              + 717-857 DZ
                                                            L

scarcely differs more or less from experiments than ^ or j^.
The preceding formulae suppose that the horizontal sections,
both of the reservoir and the recipient, are great in relation
to the transverse section of the pipe, and that the pipe is kept
constantly full *.
In comparing the formulae given for open and close canals,
M. Prony has remarked that these formulae are not only similar,
but the constants which enter into their composition are nearly
the same ; so that either of them may represent the two series
of phaenomena with sufficient exactness.
- -£\The following formula applies equally to open or close canals :
     U=  0-0469734 + ^(0-0022065 + 3041-47

But the most useful of the numerous formulae given by M. Prony
for open canals is the following :

* According to Mr. Jardine's experiments on the quantity of water delivered
by the Coniston Main from Coniston to Edinburgh, the following is a compa
rison =
              Actual delivery of Coniston Main  Scot. Pinto.
         Ditto by Eytelwein's formula              189-4

         Ditto by Girard's formula              189-77

         Ditto by Dubuat's formula              188-26

         Ditto by Prony's simple formula        188-13

         Ditto by Prony's tables                192-32

                                                180-7
          ON HYDRAULICS AS A BRANCH OF ENGINEERING.              167

ILet g    =  the  velocity  of a body falling in one    second,
       w  =  the
     p            area of   the transverse section,
          = the perimeter of that section,
          = the inclination of the canal,
Q         =  the  constant volume of water through
U         =  the  mean velocity of the water,            the section,       ;
          =  the  relation of the area to the perimeter
R                                                        of the section

£lR #I-;then 1st, 0-000436 U + 0-003034 U8 =             =

2ndly,        U = ^;                    .wj - 0-000309314 ^- = 0.
3rdly,
                -w

             R «>* 00000444409

This last equation, containing the quantities

                            Q  Iw  and  R  =     --  ,

                                                 P
shows how to determine one of them, and, knowing the three
others, we shall have the following equations :

4t 1 y' P = 0-000436 Q w + 0-003034 Q*-
j _5thl
             p (0-0000444499 Qw + Q-Q00309314 Q*)

6thly, w = 0-000436 ± ^K°TM9W+ .4 (0-003034) gRI] Q

These formulae are, however, modified in rivers by circum

stances, such as weeds, vessels and other obstacles in the
rivers ; in which case M. Girard has conceived it necessary to
introduce into the formulae the coefficient of correction = 1-7
- Ias a multiplier of the perimeter, by which the equations will be,
          p 1 -7 (0-000436 U + 0-003034 U8) = g w.

The preceding are among the principal researches of this
distinguished     philosopher *.
                  1798, Professor       Venturi  of Modena published a
   In the year
very interesting memoir, entitled Sur la Communication latt-
rale du Mouvement des Fluides. Sir Isaac Newton was well
acquainted with this communication, having deduced from it
the propagation of rotary motion from the interior to the exte
rior of a whirlpool ; and had affirmed that when motion is pro
pagated in a fluid, and has passed beyond the aperture, the

    · Rechcrches Phytico-mathemutiques  sur la Thcorie des Euic courantes,

par M. Prony.
168 THIRD REPORT 1838.

motion diverges from that opening, as from a centre, and is

propagated in right lines towards the lateral parts. The sim
ple and immediate application of this theorem cannot be made
to a jet or aperture at the surface of still water. Circumstances
enter into this case which transform the results of the principle
into particular motions. It is nevertheless true that the jet
communicates its motion to the lateral parts without the orifice,
but does not repel it in a radial divergency. M. Venturi illus

trates his theory by experiments on the form and expenditure
of fluid veins issuing from orifices, and shows how the velocity
and expenditure are increased by the application of additional
tubes; and that in descending cylindrical tubes, the upper ends
of which possess the form of the contracted vein, the expense
is such as corresponds with the height of the fluid above the
inferior extremity of the tube. The ancients remarked that a
descending tube applied to a reservoir increased the expendi
ture*. D'Alembert, Euler and Bernoulli attributed it to the
pressure of the atmosphere. Gravesend, Guglielmini and others
sought for the cause of this augmentation in the weight of the
atmosphere, and determined the velocity at the bottom of the
tube to be the same as would arise from the whole height of
the column, including the height of the reservoir. Guglielmini
supposed that the pressure at the orifice below is the same for
a state of motion as for that of rest, which is not true. In the
experiments he made for that purpose, he paid no regard either
to the diminution of expenditure produced by the irregularity
of the inner surface of the tubes, or the augmentation occa
sioned by the form of the tubes themselves. But Venturi esta
blished the proposition upon the principle of vertical ascension
combined with the pressure of the atmosphere, as follows :
   1st, That in additional conical tubes the pressure of the at
mosphere increases the expenditure in the proportion of the
exterior section of the tube to the section of the contracted
n'm, whatever be the position of the tube.
'dlv, That in cylindrical pipes the expenditure is less than
iii n b conical pipes, which diverge from the contracted vein,
'he same exterior diameter. This is illustrated by
,i.l«'\,. . ,-i. in.- with differently formed tubes, as compared with a
j.i. --r-. o, .'«·(  ·-t cylindrical tube, by which the ratios in point

fv.... ;ii<ii. *     U '- lo be 41", 31" and 27", showing the advan
tage i'f : !u- ..-.oniiMi - . )«».
in;3rd*;.,           rl.-- i \:,enditure may be still further increased,

   * "Calix de\uziu amplius rapit." -- Frontinus de Aquednctibus.  See also
Pneumatics of Hero.
          ON HYDRAULICS AS A BRANCH OF ENGINEERING.   169

in the ratio of 24 to 10, by a certain form of tube, -- a circum
stance of which he supposes the Romans were well aware, as
appears from their restricting the length of the pipes of con
veyance from the public reservoirs to fifty feet ; but it was not

perceived that the law might be equally evaded by applying a
conical frustrum to the extremity of the tube.

   M. Venturi then examines the causes of eddies in rivers;

whence he deduces from his experiments on tubes with en
larged parts, that every eddy destroys part of the moving force
of the current of the river, of which the course is permanent
and the             of the bed
elevated  sections              udnoenqeuailf,   the water continues more
          than it   would have
                                                tohfeitws hsomleallreivstersehcatidon,b--eena
equally contracted to the dimensions
consequence extremely important in the theory of rivers, as the
retardation experienced by the water in rivers is not only due
to the friction over the beds, but to eddies produced from the
irregularities in the bed, and the flexures or windings of its
course: a part of the current is thus employed to restore an
equilibrium of motion, which the current itself continually de
ranges. As respects the contracted vein, it had been pretended
by the Marquis de Lorgna* that the contracted vein was no
thing else but a continuation of the Newtonian cataract ; and
that the celerity of the fluid issuing from an orifice in a thin
plate is much less than that of a body which falls from the
height of the charge. But Venturi proved that the contraction

of the vein is incomparably greater than can be produced by
the acceleration of gravity, even in descending streams, the
contraction of the stream being 0'64, and the velocity nearly
the same as that of a heavy body which may have fallen through
the height of the charge. These experimental principles, which
are in accordance with the results of Bossut, Michelotti and
Poleni, are strictly true in all cases where the orifice is small in
proportion to the section of the reservoir, and when that orifice
is made in a thin plate, and the internal afflux of the filaments
is made in an uniform manner round the orifice itself. Venturi
then shows the form and contraction of the fluid vein by in
creased charges. His experiments with the cone are curious ;
and it would have been greatly to be regretted that he had
stopped short in his investigations, but for the more extensive
researches of Bidone and Lesbros. M. Hachette, in opposition
to the theory of Venturi, assigns, as a cause of the increase by
additional tubes, the adhesion of the fluid to the sides of the

tubes arising from capillary attraction.

          · Memorie delta Societa Ilaliana, vol. iv.
170 THIRD REPORT 1833.

   In the year 1801, M. Eytelwein, a gentleman well known to
the public by his translation of M. Dubuat's work into German,
(with important additions of his own,) published a valuable
compendium of hydraulics, entitled Handbuch der Mechanik
und der Hydraulik, in which he lays down the following rules.
1 . That when water flows from a notch made in the side of
        a dam, its velocity is as the square of the height of
        the head of the water ; that is, that the pressure and
        consequent height are as the square of the velocity, the

        proportional velocities being nearly the same as those
        of Bossut.
2. That the contraction of the fluid vein from a simple orifice
        in a thin plate is reduced to 0'64.
3. For additional pipes the coefficient is 0-65.
4. For a conical tube similar to the curve of contraction 0-98.
5. For the whole velocity due to the height, the coefficient

        by its square must be multiplied by 8-0458.
6. For an orifice the coefficient must be multiplied by 7-8.
7. For wide openings in bridges, sluices, &c, by 6-9.
8. For short pipes 6-6.
9. For openings in sluices without side walls 5'1.
Of the twenty-four chapters into which M.Eytelwein's     * work
is divided, the seventh is the most important. The late Dr.
Tho"mTahse           in commenting upon this chapter,
            Young,  theorem by which the velocity of a   says :       is  de
            simple                                       river
termined, appears to be the most valuable of M. Eytelwein's
improvements, although the reasoning from which it is deduced
is somewhat exceptionable. The friction is nearly as the square
of the                                          ninumabteimr eofprpoaprtoicrtleiosnaplrlyopsohrotirotn, --al
        velocity,   not because a
to the  velocity   is torn asunder

for, according to the analogy of solid bodies, no more force is
d--esbturotybeedcabuysefrwichtieonn
                                     when the   motion  is rapid than when slow,
                                     a body is  moving  in lines of a given curva
ture, the deflecting forces are as the squares of the velocities ;
and the particles of water in contact with the sides and bottom
must be deflected, in consequence of the minute irregularities
of the surfaces on which they slide, nearly in the same curvi
linear path, whatever their velocity may be. At any rate (he
continues) we may safely set out with this hypothesis, that the
principal part of the friction is as the square of the velocity,

fand the friction is nearly the same at all depths ; for Professor

Robison found that the time of oscillation of the fluid in a bent

   · See Nicholson's translation of Eytelwein's work.    of Fluids,"  Philo

   t See my "Experiments on the Friction and Resistance

sophical Transactions for 1831.
ON HYDRAULICS AS A BRANCH OP ENGINEERING.                                   171

tube was not increased by increasing the pressure against the
sides, being nearly the same when the principal part was si
tuated horizontally, as when vertically. The friction will, how
ever, vary, according to the surface of the fluid which is in
contact with the solid, in proportion to the whole quantity of
fluid ; that the friction for any given quantity of water willis,
be as the surface of the bottom and sides of river directly,
                   ;                              ;a
and as the whole quantity in the river inversely or, supposing;
the whole quantity of water to be spread on a horizontal sur
face equal to the bottom and sides, the friction
                                                    is  inversely as

the height at which the river would then stand, which called  is

the hydraulic mean depth *." It is, therefore, calculated that
the velocities will be a mean proportional between the hydraulic
mean depth and the fall, or -{^ths of the velocity per second.
   Professor Robison informs us, that by the experiments of

Mr. Watt on a canal eighteen feet wide at the top, seven feet
at the bottom, and four feet deep, having a fall of four inches

per mile, the velocities were seventeen inches per second at the
surface, fourteen inches per second in the middle, and ten inches
per second at the bottom, making a mean velocity of fourteen
inches per second then finding the hydraulic mean depth, and

dividing the area of the section by the perimeter,    we have                50
                                                                            9f>t,,,

or 29-13 inches and the fall in two miles being eight inches,
                x 29-13) = 15-26 for the mean     proportional of
we have ^/(8    inches, which agrees very nearly  with Mr. Watt's
|^ths, or 13-9
velocity.
The Professor has, however, deduced from Dubuat's elabo
rate theories 12-568 inches. But this simple theorem applies
only to the straight and equable channels of river. In a
                                                    a

                                                                         ;
curved channel the theorem becomes more complicated and,
from observations made in the Po, Arno, Rhine, and other
rivers, there appears to be no general rule for the decrease of
velocity going downwards. M. Eytelwein directs us to deduct
from the superficial         thvinelkoscit-yj-^tTh7s^offotrheevseurpyerfofioctialovfetlohceitywhsoulef
depth. Dr. Young
ficient. According to Major Rennell, the windings of the river
Ganges in a length of sixty miles are so numerous as to reduce
the declivity of the bed to four inches per mile, the medium
rate of motion being about three miles per hour, so that mean
hydraulic depth of thirty feet, as stated to be §rds of the   5a
velocity per second, will be 4-47 feet, or three miles per hour.
Again, the river when full has thrice the volume of water in                it,

and its motion  is  also accelerated in the proportion of to                3

                                                                                ;

           * See NichoUo/t's Journal for 1802, vol. iii. 31.p.
172 THIRD REPORT -- 1833.

and, assuming the hydraulicmean depth to be doubled at the
time of the inundation, the velocity will be increased in the
ratio of 7 to 5 ; but the inclination of the surface is probably

increased also, and consequently produces a further velocity of
from 1-4 to 1-7. M. Eytelwein agrees with Gennet6*, that a
river may absorb the whole of the water of another river equal

in magnitude to itself, without producing any sensible elevation
in its surface. This apparent paradox Gennete pretends to
prove by experiments, from observing that the Danube absorbs
the Inn, and the Rhine the Mayne rivers ; but the author evi
                                            mcaoyunbtreiews,itn--estsheedvainriothues
dently has    not attended to the fact, as
              rivers in marshes and fenny
junction of
rivers which run through the Pontine and other marshes in
Italy, and in Cambridgeshire and Lincolnshire in this country :
hence the familiar expression of the waters being overridden is
founded in facts continually observed in these districts. We
have also the experiments of Brunings in the Architecture Hy-
draulique Generate de Wiebeking, Wattmann's M6moires stir
VArt de construire les Canaux, and Funk Sur V Architecture

Hydraulique gtnirale, which are sufficient to determine the
coefficients under different circumstances, from velocities of
yths to 1\ feet, and of transverse sections from J- to 19135
square feet. The experiments of Dubuat were made on the
canal of Jard and the river Hayne ; those of Brunings in the
Rhine, the Waal and Ifrel ; and those of Wattmann in the
drains near Cuxhaven.
   M. Eytelwein's paper contains formulae for the contraction

of fluid veins through orifices f, and the resistances of fluids
passing through pipes and beds of canals and rivers, according
to the experiments of Couplet, Michelotti, Bossut, Venturi,
Dubuat, Wattmann, Brunings, Funk and Bidone.
   In the ninth chapter of the Handbuch, the author has en

deavoured to simplify, nearly in the same manner as the motion

of rivers, the theory of the motion of water in pipes, observing
that the head of water may be divided into two parts, one to
produce velocity, the other to overcome the friction ; and that
                                                                                       of the sec
the   height  must           be as the  olrenags tthheanddiamcirectuemr,f--ereanncde  inversely as
tion  of the  pipe           directly,

the area of the section, or as the square of the diameter.

· Expfriencet sur le Court des Fleuves, ou Lettre a un Magistral Hollandait,
fpar M" .RGecehnenrccthue.s  Paris 1760.
                             gur le Mouvement de l'Eau, en ayant egard a la Contraction
qui a lieu au Passage par divers Orifices, ct a la Resistance qui retard le Mouve
ment, le long des Parois des Vases ; par M. Eytelwein," -- Memoircs de I'Aca-
demie de Berlin, 1814 and 1815.
ON HYDRAULICS AS A BRANCH OF ENGINEERING.                                173

   In the allowance for flexure, the product of its square, multi
plied by the sum of the sines of the several angles of inflection,
and then by -0038, will give the degree of pressure employed

in overcoming the resistance occasioned by the angles ; and de
ducting this height from the height corresponding to the velo
city, will give the corrected velocity*.
   M. Eytelwein investigates, both
mentally, the discharge of water by    cothmepooreutnicdallpyipesa,n--d  experi
                                                                         the mo
tions of jets, and their impulses against plane and oblique sur
faces, as in water-wheels, in which it is shown that the hydraulic
pressure must be twice the weight of the generating column, as
deduced from the experiments of Bossut and Langsdorft ; and
in the case of oblique surfaces, the effect is stated to vary as the

square of the sine of the angle of incidence ; but for motions
in open water about yths of the difference of the sine from the
radius must be added to this square.
  The author is evidently wrong in calculating upon impulse
as forming part of the motion of overshot wheels; but his
theory, that the perimeter of a water-wheel should move with
half the velocity of a given stream to produce a maximum effect,

fagrees perfectly with the experiments of Smeaton and others .

   The author concludes his highly interesting work by exa
mining the effects of air as far as they relate to hydraulic ma
chines, including its impulse against plane surfaces on siphons

/· Hence, if denote the height due to the friction,
               d = the diameter of the pipe,
               a = a constant quantity,

we shall have,       /= V* ^ and V =*--..

But the height employed in overcoming  the friction corresponds       to the differ-

                                                                                  y*
ence between the actual velocity and the actual height, that is, /== h -- yj,

where 4 is the coefficient for finding the velocity from the height.

Hence we have,       V* =  a  T,--,    and V = V ab*l+--d5.
                              A* 1

Now Dubuat found b to be 6-6, and ah- was found to be 0-021 1, particularly
when the velocity is between six and twenty-four inches per second. Hence

or more accurately,  V = 50 VI             Y

  t The author of this paper has made a great many experiments on the max

imum effect of water-wheels ; but the recent experiments of the Franklin Insti
tution, made on a more magnificent scale, and now in the course of trial, eclipse
everything that has yet been effected on this subject. See also Ponceiet, Afe-
moire tur let Bouet Hydrauliques, and Aubet Cottrbes par dessous, Sfc. 1827.
174                  THIRD REPORT 1833.

and pumps of different descriptions, horizontal and inclined
helices, bucket-wheels, throwing- wheels, and lastly, on instru

ments for measuring the velocity of streams of water. A very
detailed account of the work was given in the Journal of the

Royal Institution, by the late Dr. Young. But it is due to
MM. Dubuat and Prony to state, that M. Eytelwein has
exactly followed the steps of these gentlemen in his Theory of
the Motion of   Water   in open   Channels.
   In the year          valuable             experiments    upon the
                1809 a            series of
motions of waters through pipes, was made by MM. Mallet
and Vici at Rome, and afterwards by M. Prony*.
It had been proved, by experiments made with great care,
that the diminution of velocity, and consequent expenditure in
pipes, was not in the ratio of the capacity of the pipes, as Fron-
tinus had supposed in his valuation of the product of the an

cient module or calice ; and as it was desirable to ascertain the
actual product of the three fountains now used at Rome, a se
ries of experiments was undertaken by these gentlemen ; the
principal result of which was, that a pipe, of which the gauge
was five oncesf, furnished fth more water than five pipes of
one once, on account of the diminution of the velocity by
friction in the ratio of the perimeters of the orifices as com
pared with their areas.
   M. Mallet also made a great many researches relative to the

distribution of water in the different cities and towns of En
gland and France, with a view to their application at Paris; of
all of which he has published an account.
   The researches that had been made hitherto on the expendi
ture of water through orifices, had for their object the deter
mination of the velocity and magnitude of the section, by which
it is necessary to multiply the velocity to obtain the expense.
But although these be the first elements for consideration, they
are not sufficient ; for the fluid vein presents other phaenomena
                       both in the
equally  important,  and direction   theory and its     application,
namely,  the form                   of the vein after  it has issued
from the orifice. The former phaenomena, as we before stated,

had been long noticed by Michelotti and others, but nothing

precise had been established on the forms and remarkable phae

nomena of the fluid vein itself. Venturi had given three ex

amples.
M. Hachette, in two memoirs presented to the Academie

Royale des Sciences in 1815 and 1816, also considered the

         · Notices Historiques, par M. Mallet. Paris 1830.
         t French measure, or 0-03059 French kilolitres.
ON HYDRAULICS AS A BRANCH OF ENGINEERING.  175

form of veins ; and in his Traits des Machines, he states that
he had already given a description of veins issuing from circu
lar, elliptical, triangular and square orifices, without having
entered into any detail respecting them, so that that part of
the subject was in a great measure involved in doubt. In 1829
a paper, entitled "Experiences sur la Forme et sur la Direction
desVeines et des Courans d'Eau, lances par diverses Ouvertures,"
was read to the Academy of Sciences at Turin by M. Bidone,
giving an account of a series of experiments made in the years
1826 and 1827, in the Hydraulic Establishment of the Royal
T/niversity. The results of these experiments are divided into
five articles. The first gives a description of the apparatus
and mode of proceeding, and the figures obtained from veins
expended from rectilinear and curvilinear orifices, with salient

angles pierced in vertical plates, and whose perimeters are

formed by straight and curved lines, varying upwards of fifty
different ways, with variable and invariable changes, from zero
to twenty-two French feet : the area of water was equal to one
square inch. The sections of the veins were taken at different
distances from the aperture. The results are extremely curi
ous, as illustrating the influence of pressure and divergence on
part of a fluid mass not in equilibrio, and may be assimilated to
the phaenomena presented by the undulation of streams of
light. The author contents himself with stating the results,
which are further illustrated by diagrams.

   In a second paper, read to the Accademia delle Scienze in
April following of the same year (1829), M. Bidone enters into
a theoretical consideration of his experiments, in which he re
presents the greatest contraction of the fluid vein to take place
at a distance not exceeding the greatest diameter of the orifice,
whatever be the shape ; from which it results that the expres
sion for the expense of the orifice is equal to the sum of the
product of each superficial element multiplied by the velocity
of the fluid vein ; and as it was determined by experiment
that the area of the vena contracta was from 0-60 to 0-62 of
the area of the orifice, it follows that this coefficient of con
traction, multiplied by the velocity due to the charge, repre

sents the expenditure.

   M. Bidone considers the case of a fluid vein reduced to a
state of permanence, and expended from a very small orifice,
as compared with the sections of the containing vessel, accord
ing to the theory of Euler ; and finds that the magnitude of the
section of the contracted vein does not depend upon the velocity
of the component filaments, but solely on their direction, a re
sult conformable to experiment.
   176 THIRD REPORT -- 1833.

      He then determines, from the results of M. Venturoli*, the
   absolute magnitude of the contracted section of the vein (issuing
   from a circular orifice) to be exactly frds of the orifice, the
   correction due to the contraction depending upon the ad
   hesion and friction of the fluid against the perimeter of the ori
   fice, and the ratio of the area of the vein to the area of the
   orifice : the same for all orifices. Hitherto the magnitude of

   fluid veins, as determined by direct measurements, had given

   greater coefficients than the effective expenditure allowed.
      Michelotti, with a pressure of twenty feet, with orifices of one

   and two inches in diameter, found the coefficient 0-649

   Bossut                                      0-660

   Borda                                       0646

   Venturi                                     0640

   Eytelwein                                   0-640

   Hachette                                    0-690

   Newton                                      0-707

   Helsham                                     0705

   Brindley and Smeaton                        0-631

   Banks                                       0-750

   Rennief                                     0-621

   In several experiments the ratio rarely exceeded 0-620 ; so
   that the discrepancy must have arisen from inaccuracies in the
   measurement of the fluid vein and orifice.
      In the year 1827, it having been considered desirable to re
   peat the experiments of Bossut and Dubuat, application was
   made to the French Government by General Sabatier, Com
   mander-in-chief of the Military School at Metz, for permission
   to undertake a series of experiments on a scale of magnitude
   sufficient to establish the principles laid down by those authors,
   and serve as valuable practical rules for future calculations.
   The apparatus consisted, 1st, of an immense basin, having
   an area of 25,000 square metres ; 2nd, of a smaller reservoir,
   having a superficial area of 1500 square metres, and a depth
   of 3-70 metres, so contrived, by means of sluices, as to have a
   complete command of the level of the water during the experi
   ment ; 3rd, of a basin directly communicating with the second
   basin, 3-68 metres in length, and 3 metres in width, to receive
   the product of the orifices ; 4th, a basin or gauge capable of
   containing 24,000 litres.

      · Elementi di Meccanica e d'Idraulica: Milano 1818. Recherche Geome-

   triche fatte nella Scuola degli Ingegncri pontifici d'Acque « Strode, Tantto
   1821. Milano.

     t "On the Friction and Resistance of Fluids," Philosophical Transactions of

   1831.

N
       ON HYDRAULICS AS A BRANCH OF ENGINEERING.                        177

    The time was constantly noticed by an excellent stop-watch,
made by Breguet; and the opening of the orifices, the charges
of the fluid in the reservoir, as well as the level of the water in
the gauge basin relative to each expense of fluid, were always
measured to the tenth of a millimetre, so that, even under the
most unfavourable circumstances, the approximation was at least
to jifldth part of the total result. The total disposable fall or
height, counting from the ordinary surface of the Moselle river,
was four metres, from which two metres were deducted for the
gauge basin, leaving only a fall of two metres under the most

favourable circumstances ; and in the subsequent experiments
of 1828 the height never exceeded 1-60 metre, sufficiently

high for all practical purposes. An apparatus was provided
for regulating the height of the orifice and the surface of the
water in the reservoirs, and for tracing with the greatest accu
racy the forms and sections of the fluid veins before and after
issuing from the orifices, and the depressions experienced by
the surface of the water previously to its issuing from an open
ing of twenty centimetres square, the upper side of which was
on a level with the surface of the water in the reservoir. These
depressions are recorded in the Tables,

   1st, On the expenditure of water through rectangular verti
cal orifices, twenty centimetres square, and varying in height
from one to twenty centimetres, under charges of from -0174
of a metre to 1-6901 metre:

  2ndly, On the expenditures of water from the similar-sized
orifices, open at the top, but under charges of from two to

twenty-two centimetres.

  The whole is comprised in eleven Tables of 241 experiments,
to which is added a twelfth Table, showing the value of the co
efficients of contraction for complete orifices, from twenty cen

timetres square to one centimetre, calculated according to the
following formula:

  D for the height of the orifices, where*

D= lo ^2^A = I (A-AO S2g (^^ being the theo
- -retical expense relative to the velocity ;
  D' = 1 1 ,/%-g (h\ h'l) = § I (h STgh                                 h' VW>J)
or the theoretical expense, having regard to the influence of
the orifice.

· That is, where I = 020 metre, being the horizontal breadth of all the orifices;
              h = the charge of the fluid on the lower part of the orifice ;
              h'=                      in the upper or variable side    of the orifice
              o=   hth--e cAh'artghee  thickness of the vein of water.                  ;

1833.                                  N
17$ THIRD REPORT 1833.

   The conclusions to be derived from these Tables are,
   1st, That for complete orifices of twenty centimetres square
and high charges, the coefficient is 0-600 ; with the charge
equal to four or five times the opening of the orifice, the co
efficient augments to 0-605 ; but beyond that charge the co

efficient diminishes to 0-593.

   2ndly, That the same law maintains for orifices of ten and
five centimetres in height, the coefficients being for ten centi
metres 0-611, 0-618, 0-611 respectively, and for five centi
metres in height 0-618, 0-631, 0-623.

   Lastly, That with orifices of three, two and one centimetres
in height, the law changes very rapidly, and the coefficients
increase as the opening of the orifice becomes less, being for
one centimetre 0-698, the smallest height of the orifice, to 0-640
for three centimetres.

   These remarkable discrepancies from the results of Bidone
and others are attributed by MM. Lesbros and Poncelet to
differences in the construction of the apparatus or in the mode
of measurement adopted by the latter gentlemen ; but in gene
ral the coincidences are sufficiently satisfactory, and they are
the more accurately confirmed by the subsequent investigations
of MM. D'Aubuisson and Castel at Toulouse *. As respects
water issuing from the openings or notches made in the sides
of dams, or what we should term incomplete orifices, it appears
that the coefficient obtained by the ordinary formula of Dubuat,

or lh\/ 2gh, augments from the total charge of twenty-two cen

timetres when it is from 0-389 to two centimetres when it be
comes 0-415 ; hence we may safely adopt M. Bidone's coefficient

of 0-405, or, according to MM. Poncelet and Lesbros' theory

0-400, for calculating expenditures through notches in dams.
From these and other experiments the authors are led to con
clude, that the law of continuity maintains for indefinite heights
both with complete and incomplete orifices, and that the same
coefficient can be obtained by adopting in both cases the same
formula. The authors observe that the area of the section of
the greatest contraction of the vein, considered as a true
square, is exactly two thirds of the area of the orifice ; a fact
which goes to prove that there is no certain comparison be
tween the mean theoretical or calculated velocities, by means
of the formula now used, and the mean effective velocities de
rived from the expenditure.

   The authors conclude their memoir by recommending their
experiments for adoption in all cases of plate orifices situated

           · Annates de Chimic el cfc Physique for 1830, torn. xliv. p. 225.
ON HYDRAULICS AS A BRANCH OF ENGINEERING.                      179

at a distance from the sides and bottom of the reservoir, pro
mising to investigate with similar accuracy in a future memoir
           which may occur to the contrary.
the cases  is appended to the memoir by M.   Lesbros,       contain

  A note
ing formulae for calculating the effective expenditure of com
plete orifices ; and also a Table of constants, which gives the
effective expenditure of each orifice as compared with experi
ment. We have been thus particular in detailing the results of
MM. Lesbros and Poncelet's work, because they have com

prehended all the cases upon which there remained any doubts,
and with very few exceptions are in accordance with the expe
riments of Brunacci, Navier, Christian, Gueymard, DAubuis-
son, and by the author of this paper*. So that in point of
accuracy and laborious investigation, the authors of these va
luable accessions to our knowledge, not only merit our grati
tude, but have very amply replied to the liberality of the French
Government.
Having thus endeavoured to elucidate the labours of the
foreign philosophers who have contributed so greatly to the
progress of hydraulics, it only remains for us to notice the
scanty contributions of our countrymen to the science. While
France and Germany were rapidly advancing upon the traces
of Italy, England remained an inactive spectator of their pro
gress, contented with the splendour of her own Newton, to
receive from foreigners whatever was original or valuable in
the science. The Philosophical Transactions, rich as they
are in other respects, scarcely contain a single paper on this
subject founded on any experimental investigations.
                                                            Some
erroneous and inconclusive inferences from Newton, by Dr.
Jurin ; a paper on the Measure of Force, by Mr. Eames ; a
paper on Wiers, by Mr. Roberts ; another on the Motion and
Resistance of Fluids, by Dr. Vince ; and a summary of Bossut
and Dubuat's Experiments on the Motions of Fluids through
Tubes, by Dr. Thomas Young, comprise nearly the whole of
the papers on hydraulics in the Philosophical Transactions.
The various treatises on the subject published by Maclaurin,
Emerson, Dr. Matthew Young, Desaguliers, Clare and Switzer,
with the exception of the theoretical investigations,
principally from the works of foreigners; and it was   are  compiled
                                                       not  until the

subject was taken up by Brindley, Smeaton, Robison, Banks

and Dr. Thomas Young, that we were at all aware of our defi
ciency. Practical men were either necessitated to follow the un
certain rules derived from their predecessors, or their own expe
rience and sagacity, for the little knowledge they possessed.

             * Philosophical Transactions for 1831.

             N2
180                 THIRD REPORT-- 1833.

   On the subject of hydrometry we were equally ignorant ; and
although the Italian collection had been published several
years previously, and was well known on the Continent, it was
not until Mr. Mann published an abstract of that collection
that we were at all aware of the state of the science abroad.

   Under these circumstances the author of this paper was in
duced, in the year 1830, to undertake a series of experiments to
ascertain, 1 st, The friction of water against the surface of a
cylinder, and discs revolving in at different depths and ve
                                               it,
                                                           it
locities from which appeared, that with slow velocities the;it
friction approximated the ratio of the surfaces, but that an in:
crease of surface did not materially affect with increased velo
cities and that with equal surfaces the resistances approxi    :  it
mated to the squares of the velocities.

  2ndly, To ascertain the direct resistances against globes

and discs revolving in air and water alternately from which
resulted, that the resistances in both cases were as the squares
of the velocities; and that the mean resistances of circular discs,
square plates, and globes of equal area, in atmospherical air,

were as under  :
                             .
     Circular discs . . 25-180                         1-18

     Square plates . 22-010 in air, . . 1-36 in water.
     Round globes . . 10-627
                                                       0-75
3rdly, That with circular orifices made in brass plates of
aJg-th of an inch in thickness, and having apertures of
of an inch respectively, under pressures varying from one to·$·
four feet, the average coefficients of contraction were,          ,,
     for altitudes of foot
                                41                     0-619        \,
                                                                      f\,
                                    feet               0-621
For additional tubes of glass the coefficient was,                       ,\
               for foot
                                41                                                          a0-817

                                    feet               0-806
4thly, That the expenditures through orifices, additional
tubes, and pipes of different lengths, of equal areas and under
the same altitude as compared with the expenditure through
pipe of 30 feet in length, are as
                                for orifices,
            11111
                ::: : :

                  43
                                            2481
                                for additional tubes,

               3-7 for a pipe foot in length,

               2-6 feet

               2-0
            1:1-4
                                                               .

5thly, That with bent rectangular pipes an inch in diameter,
and 15 feet in length, the expenditures were diminished with
fourteen bends two thirds, as compared with a straight pipe,
ON HYDRAULICS AS A BRANCH OF ENGINEERING.  181

and with twenty-four right angles, one third ; but did not seem

to observe any decided law.
   In several experiments tried on a great scale, the results
gave from one fifth to one sixth of the altitude for the fric
tion. In the case of the Coniston main, which conducts the
water from the reservoir at Coniston to the castle of Edin
burgh, the diameter of which is 4£ inches, the length 14,930
feet, and the altitude 51 feet, it was proved by Mr. Jardine
that the formulae of Dubuat and Eytelwein approximated to
the real results very nearly ; and in some experiments made on
a great scale by the author of this paper, these formulae were
found equally applicable. In several experiments made in the
year 1828, on the water-works at Grenoble, by M. Gueymard,
it was found that pipes of six and eight French inches in dia
meter furnished only two thirds of the water indicated by the
formulae of M. Prony ; but when of nine inches diameter, the
formula approximated very nearly. In M. Gueymard's expe
riment the altitude of the reservoir above the point of delivery
was 8-453 metres, or 27'73 English feet. The height to which
the water was required to be elevated was 5-514 metres, or
18 feet ; the volume of water required was 954 litres, or 33-6
cubic feet; the length of the pipe was 3200 metres, or 10498
feet. There were eight gentle curves in the system, but en
larged beyond the average diameter of the parts of the pipe ;
from which it resulted that the height to which the water was
delivered was only two thirds of the height of the reservoir*.
   In the preceding short but imperfect history of the science
of hydraulics we have confined our attention to the experi
Imental researches that have been made on spouting fluids only.
In a future communication    hope to examine the state of
our knowledge of the natural phaenomena of rivers, and the
causes by which they are influenced ; at present it is extremely
limited, and although we have many works upon the subject,
very little seems to be known either of their properties or of
the laws by which they are governed.

· According to M. Prony's theory, the height raised would only have been
5-514 metres instead of 5-671 metres. The difficulty, however, of making ex
periments on a great scale will always prove an obstacle to the right solution
of the question, in as much as it exacts that the pipe be of the same dia
                        is,  perfectly straight, and free from bends, and the
meter throughout, that
charge of water invariable. For this purpose M. Prony has calculated Tables
showing the relation subsisting between the expenditure, diameter, length, the
total inclination of the pipes, and the difference of pressure at its extremities.
ISîi THIRD REPORT 1833.

                          Appendix.

   Since the   foregoing  "RMepéomrot irweassurrealad          to the British Associa
tion a paper,   entitled                                      Constitution des Veines

Liquides lancées par des Orifices Circulaires en mince paroi,"
has been communicated to the Academy of Sciences at Paris,
by M. Félix Savart, 26 Août 1833. The author, after detailing
very minutely the different phenomena presented by liquid
veins issuing from circular orifices perforated in thin plates,
attached to the bottom and sides of vessels, illustrates his po
sitions by a series of curious experiments on the vibrations and
sounds of the drops which issue from the annular rings or pipes
formed by the troubled part of the liquid. The results of these

exp"er1i°m. eTnotsutearevebineestligqiuviedne  in his  own words.      de haut en bas
                                               lancée   verticalement

par un orifice circulaire pratiqué dans une paroi plane et hori

zontale est toujours composée de deux parties bien distinctes
par l'aspect et la constitution. La partie qui touche à l'orifice est
un solide de révolution dont toutes les sections horizontales

vont en décroissant graduellement de diamètre. Cette première

partie de la veine est calme et transparente, et ressemble à un

tige de cristal. La seconde partie, au contraire, est toujours

agitée, et paraît dénuée de transparence, quoiqu'elle soit ce

pendant d'une forme assez régulière pour qu'on puisse facile
ment voir qu'elle est divisée en un certain nombre de ren-

flemens allongés dont le diamètre maximum est toujours plus
gra"n2d°.  que celui de l'orifice.
            Cette seconde partie               de  la  veine  est  composée  de  gouttes

bien distinctes les unes des autres, qui subissent pendant leur

chute, des changemens périodiques de forme, auxquels sont dues

les apparences de ventres ou renflemens régulièrement espacés

que l'inspection directe fait reconnaître dans cette partie de la

veine, dont la continuité apparente dépend de ce que les gouttes

se succèdent à des intervalles de temps qui sont moindres que
la durée de la sensation produite sur la rétine par chaque goutte
en "p3a°r.ticLuelsierg. outtes qui forment la partie trouble de la veine

sont produites par des renflemens annulaires qui prennent
naissance très près de l'orifice, et qui se propagent à des inter
valles de temps égaux, le long de la partie limpide de la veine,

en augmentant de volume à mesure qu'ils descendent, et qui

enfin se séparent de l'extrémité inférieure de la partie limpide
et continue à des intervalles de temps égaux à ceux de leur
production et de leur propagation.
                ON HYDRAULICS AS A BRANCH OF ENGINEERING.             183

"        Ces renflemens     annulaires        sont engendrés     par une suc
    4^.

cession périodique de pulsations qui ont lieu à l'orifice même ;
de sorte que la vitesse de l'écoulement, au lieu d'être uniforme,
est périodiquement variable.

   "5°. Le nombre de ces pulsations, même pour des charges

foibles, est toujours assez grand, dans un temps donné, pour
qu'elles soient de l'ordre de celles qui, par la fréquence de leur
retour, peuvent donner lieu à des sons perceptibles et compa

rables. Ce nombre ne dépend que de la vitesse de l'écoule
ment, à laquelle il est directement proportionnel, et du
des orifices, auquel il est inversement proportionnel.                diamètre

                                                                      Il ne pa
raît altéré ni par la nature du liquide, ni par la température.
"6°. L'amplitude de ces pulsations peut être considérable

ment augmentée par des vibrations de même période commu
niquées à la masse entière du liquide et aux parois du réservoir
qui le contient. Sous cette influence étrangère, les dimensions
et l'état de la veine peuvent subir des changemens remarqua
bles : la longueur de la partie limpide et continue peut se
réduire presqu'à rien, tandis que les ventres de la partie trouble

acquièrent une régularité de forme et une transparence qu'ils
ne possèdent pas ordinairement. Lorsque le nombre des vibra
tions communiquées est différent de celui des pulsations qui
ont lieu à l'orifice, leur influence peut même aller jusqu'à
changer le nombre de ces pulsations, mais seulement entre de

cer"ta7in°e. s   limites.   ne paraît pas altérée        par l'amplitude des

                La dépense
                    ni même par leur nombre.
pul"sa8t°io. nsL,a   resistance de l'air n'influe  pas sensiblement   sur la

forme et les dimensions des veines, non plus que sur le nombre

des"  pulsations.                 des veines  lancées    horizontalement ou

      9°. La constitution

même obliquement de bas en haut ne diffère pas essentiellement
de celle des veines lancées verticalement de haut en bas ; seule

ment le nombre des pulsations à l'orifice paraît devenir d'autant
moindre que le jet approche plus d'être lancé verticalement de

bas"  en haut.      que     soit  la  direction  de  la  veine,  son  diamètre
      10°. Quelle
décroît toujours très rapidement jusqu'à une petite distance de
l'orifice ; mais quand la veine tombe verticalement, le décroisse-

ment continue jusqu'à ce que la partie limpide se perde dans
la partie trouble : il en est encore de même quand la veine est

lancée horizontalement, quoiqu'alors le décroissement suive une
loi moins rapide. Lorsque le jet est lancé obliquement de
bas en haut, et qu'il forme avec l'horizon un angle de 25° à 45°,
toutes les sections normales à la courbe qu'il décrit deviennent
184  THIRD REPORT 1833.

sensiblement égales entre elles, à partir de la partie contractée
que touche à l'orifice. Enfin, pour des angles plus grands que
45°, le diamètre de la veine va en augmentant depuis la partie
contractée jusqu'à la naissance de la portion trouble ; de sorte

que c'est seulement alors qu'il existe une section qu'on peut
à juste titre appeler section contractée."
                                18.5

ReFBp.roGarnt.cSho.,ensFt.hoZef.ARSne.a,cleyFns.tiRs.P.Aro.BSgyr.e, sGsFe.oCar.ngPde.SPP.,reeasFceeonlclotkw,StMaatn.eAdo.,fTFuc.teRorr.tSaoi.n,f
    Trinity College, Cambridge.

The present Report was intended in the first instance to have
comprehended some notice of the recent progress and present
state of analytical science in general, including algebra, the
application of algebra to geometry, the differential and integral
calculus, and the theory of series : a very little progress, how
ever, in the inquiries which were required for the execution of
                                me of    tuhnelesnsecIessshitoyuldof
this undertaking convinced      limits,                                    confining
them within much narrower                                                 have ven

tured to occupy a much larger space in the annual publication

of the Proceedings and Reports of the British Association than
could be properly or conveniently allotted to one department
of  Iscience, when so many others were required to be noticed.
It
    is for these reasons that shall restrict my observations,
in the following Report, to
Arithmetic of Sines ; at the    Asalgmeebrtaim, eTIrigvoenntoumreetrtyo,    and the
                                                                          indulge a
hope of being allowed, upon some future occasion, to bring
Ibefore the Members of the Association some notice of those
higher branches of analysis which at present                feel myself

comAlpgeellebdr,a. --thoTuhgeh  reluctantly, to omit.   be  considered    under
                                science of algebra may
two points of view, the one having reference to its principles,
and the other to its applications : the first regards its complete

ness as an independent science ; the second its usefulness and
power as an instrument of investigation and discovery, whether
as respects the merely symbolical results which are deducible
from the systematic developement of its principles, or the ap
plication of those results, by interpretation, to the physical

sciences.
    Algebra, considered with reference to its principles, has re
ceived very little attention, and consequently very little im
provement, during the last century ; whilst its applications,
using that term in its largest sense, have been in a state of
continued advancement. Many causes have contributed to this

comparative neglect of the accurate and logical examination of
the first principles of algebra : in the first place, the proper
186 THIRD REPORT 1833.

assumption and establishment of those principles involve meta
physical difficulties of a very serious kind, which present them
selves to a learner at a period of his studies when his mind has
not been subjected to such a system of mathematical discipline
as may enable it to cope with them : in the second place, we are
commonly taught to approach those difficulties under the cover
of a much more simple and much less general science, by steps
which are studiously smoothed down, in order to render the
transition from one science to the other as gentle and as little
startling as possible ; and lastly, from the peculiar relation
which the first principles of algebra, in common with those of
other sciences of strict demonstration, bear to the great mass
of facts and reasonings of which those sciences are composed.

   It is this last circumstance which constitutes a marked distinc

tion between those sciences which, like algebra and geometry,
are founded upon assumed principles and definitions, and the
physical sciences : in one case we consider those principles and
definitions as ultimate facts, from which our investigations pro
ceed in one direction only, giving rise to a series of conclusions
which have reference to those facts alone, and whose correct
ness or truth involves no other condition than the existence of
a necessary connexion between them, in whatever manner the
evidence of that existence may be made manifest ; whilst in the
physical sciences there are no such ultimate facts which can be
considered as the natural or the assumable limits of our inves
tigations. It is true, indeed, that in the application of algebra
or geometry to such sciences, we assume certain facts or prin
ciples as possessing a necessary existence or truth, investing
them, as it were, with a strictly mathematical character, and
making them the foundation of a system of propositions, whose

connexion involves the same species of evidence with that of the
succession of propositions in the abstract sciences ; but in as

signing to such propositions their proper interpretation in the
physical world, our conclusions are only true to an extent which
is commensurate with the truth and universality of application

of our fundamental assumptions, and of the various conditions
by which the investigation of those propositions has been sup

posed to be limited ; in other words, such conclusions can be
considered as approximations only to physical truth ; for such
assumed first principles, however vast may be the superstruc
ture which is raised upon them, form only one or more links in
the great chain of propositions, the termination and foundation

of which must be for ever veiled in the mystery of the first

cause.

   It is not my intention to enter upon the examination of the
REPORT ON .CERTAIN BRANCHES OF ANALYSIS.  187

general relations which exist between the speculative and physi
cal sciences, but merely to point out the distinction between the
ultimate objects of our reasonings in the one class and in the
other : in the first, we merely regard the results of the science
itself, and the logical accuracy of the reasoning by which they
are deduced from assumed first principles ; and all our conclu
sions possess a necessary existence, without seeking either for
their strict or for their approximate interpretation in the nature

of things : in the second, we found our reasonings equally upon

assumed first principles, and we equally seek for logical accu
racy in the deduction of our conclusions from them ; but both
in the principles themselves and in the conclusions from them,
we look to the external world as furnishing by interpretation

corresponding principles and corresponding conclusions ; and
the physical sciences become more or less adapted to the ap
plication of mathematics, in proportion to the extent to which
our assumed first principles can be made to approach to the
most simple and general facts or principles which are discover
able in those sciences by observation or experiment, when di
vested of all incidental and foreign causes of variation ; and
still more so, when the causes of such variation can be di
stinctly pointed out, and when their extent and influence are

reducible to approximate at least, if not to accurate estimation.
    The first principles, therefore, which form the foundation

of our mathematical reasonings in the physical sciences being
neither arbitrary assumptions nor necessary truths, but really
forming part of the series of propositions of which those sci

ences are composed, can never cease to be more or less the

subject of examination and inquiry at any point of our re
 searches : they form the basis of those interpretations which
are perpetually required to connect our mathematical with the
corresponding physical conclusions ; and even supposing the
 immediate appeal to them to be superseded, as will frequently
 be the case, by other propositions which are deducible from
 them, they still continue to claim our attention as the proposi
 tions which terminate those physical and logical inquiries at
which our mathematical reasonings begin. But in the abstract
 sciences of geometry and algebra, those principles which are
the foundation of those sciences are also the proper limits of

our inquiries ; for if they are in any way connected with the phy

 sical sciences, the connexion is arbitrary, and in no respect af
 fects the truth of our conclusions, which respects the evidence
 of their connexion with the first principles only, and does not
 require, though it may allow, the aid of physical interpretation.

    It is true that there exists a connexion between physical and
   188        THIRD REPORT 1833.

   speculative geometry,    as well as between physical  and specula
   tive mechanics ; and                                  we regarded
                            if in speculative geometry
   the actual construction and mensuration of the figures and solids
   in physical geometry alone, the transition from one science to
   the other
'  metry and  being made     by interpretation,  then speculative geo-
               speculative  mechanics must be    regarded as sciences

   which were similar in their character, though different in
   their objects : but we cultivate speculative geometry without
   any such exclusive reference to physical geometry, as an in
   strument of investigation more or less applicable, by means
   of interpretation, to all sciences which are reducible to mea

   sure, and whose abstract conclusions, in whatever manner

   suggested or derived, possess a great practical value altogether
   apart from their applications to practical geometry ; whilst the
   conclusions in speculative mechanics are valuable from their
   applications to physical mechanics only, and are not other
   wise separable from the conclusions of those abstract sciences
   which are employed as instruments in their investigation.
      This separation of speculative and physical geometry was
   perfectly understood by the ancients, though their views of its
   application to the physical sciences were extremely limited ;
   and it is to the complete abstraction of the principles of specu
   lative geometry that we must in a great measure attribute the
   vast discoveries which were made by its aid in the hands of
   Newton and his predecessors, when a more enlarged and phi
   losophical knowledge of the laws of nature supplied those phy
   sical axioms or truths which were required as the medium of
   its applications; and though it was destined to be superseded,
   at least in a great degree, by another abstract science of much
   greater extent and applicability, yet it was enabled to maintain
   its ground for a considerable time against its more powerful
   rival, in consequence of the superior precision of its prin
   ciples and the superior evidence of its conclusions, when con
   sidered with reference to the form under which the principles
   and conclusions of algebra were known or exhibited at that

   period.
   Algebra was denominated in the time of Newton specious or
   universal arithmetic, and the view of its principles which gave
   rise to this synonym (if such a term may be used) has more or
   less prevailed in almost every treatise upon this subject which
   has appeared since his time. In a similar sense, algebra has
   been said to be a science which arises from that generalization
   of the processes of arithmetic which results from the use of
   symbolical language : but though in the exposition of the prin
   ciples of algebra, arithmetic has always been taken for its foun
REPORT ON CERTAIN BRANCHES OF ANALYSIS.  189

dation, and the names of the fundamental operations in one
science have been transferred to the other without any imme
diate change of their meaning, yet it has generally been found
necessary subsequently to enlarge this very narrow basis of so
very general a science, though the reason of the necessity of
doing so, and the precise point at which, or the extent to which,
it was done, has usually been passed over without notice. The
science which was thus formed was perfectly abstract, in what
ever manner we arrived at its fundamental conclusions ; and
those conclusions were the same whatever view was taken of
their origin, or in whatever manner they were deduced ; but a
serious error was committed in considering it as a science which
admitted of strict and rigorous demonstration, when it certainly
possessed no adequate principles of its own, whether assumed
or demonstrated, which could properly justify the character
which was thus given to it.

   There are, in fact, two distinct sciences, arithmetical and
symbolical algebra, which are closely connected with each
other, though the existence of one does not necessarily deter
mine the existence of the other. The first of these sciences
would be, properly speaking, universal arithmetic : its general
symbols would represent numbers only ; its fundamental ope
rations, and the signs used to denote them, would have the same
meaning as in common arithmetic ; it would reject the inde
pendent use of the signs + and -- , though it would recognise the
common rules for their incorporation, when they were preceded
by other quantities or symbols : the operation of subtraction
would be impossible when the subtrahend was greater than
the quantity from which it was required to be taken, and there
fore the proper impossible quantities of such a science would
be the negative quantities of symbolical algebra ; it would re
ject also the consideration of the multiple values of simple
roots, as well as of the negative and impossible roots of equa
tions of the second and higher degree : it is this species of al
gebra which alone can be legitimately founded upon arithmetic

 as its basis.

    Mr. Frend *, Baron Maseres, and others, about the latter
end of the last century, attempted to introduce arithmetical

   · The Principles of Algebra, by William Frend, 1796; and The true The
ory of Equations, established on Mathematical Demonstration, 1799. The fol
lowing extracts from his prefaces to these works will explain the nature of his

view" sTh: e ideas of number are the clearest and most distinct of the human mind :
the acts of the mind upon them are equally simple and olear. There cannot
be confusion in them, unless numbers too great for the comprehension of the
190 THIRD REPORT-- 1833.

to the exclusion of symbolical algebra, as the only form of it
which was capable of strict demonstration, and which alone,
therefore, was entitled to be considered as a science of strict and
logical reasoning. The arguments which they made use of
were unanswerable, when advanced against the form under
which the principles of algebra were exhibited in the elemen
tary and all other works of that period, and which they have
continued to retain ever since, with very trifling and unimpor
tant alterations ; and the system of algebra which was formed
by the first of these authors was perfectly logical and complete,
the connexion of all its parts being capable of strict demon
stration ; but there were a great multitude of algebraical re
sults and propositions, of unquestionable value and of unques
tionable consistency with each other, which were irreconcila
ble with such a system, or, at all events, not deducible from it ;
and amongst them, the theory of the composition of equations,
which Harriot had left in so complete a form, and which made
it necessary to consider negative and even impossible quan

learner are employed, or some arts are used which are not justifiable. The
first error in teaching the first principles of algebra is obvious on perusing a few
pages only of the first part of Maclaurin's Algebra. Numbers are there divided
into two sorts, positive and negative : and an attempt is made to explain the
nature of negative numbers, by allusions to book debts and other arts. Now
when a person cannot explain the principles of a science, without reference to
a metaphor, the probabilitya          that he has never thought accurately upon the
subject. A number may be greater or less than another numberis,
                                                                            :                                  may be
                                               is
                                                     is                        ; it
added to, taken from, multiplied into, or divided by, another number but in
                           very intractable; though the whole world should be destroyed,is
other respects a
one will be one, and three will be three, and no art whatever can change their
nature. You may put mark before one, which will obeya it
                       is                                                submits to be
                                                               it        ;

                                                                            is it

                                                                                         a
taken away from another number greater than itself, but to attempt to take                                     a by it
away from number less than itself ridiculous. Yet this attempted
algebraists, who talk of a number less than nothing, of multiplying negative
number into negative number, and thus producing positive number, of
                                                                   a

number being imaginary. Hence they talk of two roots to every equation of
the second order, and the learner to try which will succeed in given equa
tion they talk of solving an equation which requires two impossible roots toa

make soluble they can find out some impossible numbers, which being:
                     :
   ; it
multiplied together produce unity. This all jargon, at which common sense                                      it
recoils but from its having been once adopted, like many other figments,

finds the most strenuous supporters among those who love to take tilings upon
tru"stFaronmd              colour of
               hate  the   of Vieta,  a serious thought."      Maseres,  the restorer of alge
                the  age              the father, to this of

bra, many men of the greatest abilities have employed themselves in the pursuit
of an idle hypothesis, and have laid down rules not founded in truth, nor of any
Ifsort of use in a science admitting in every step of the plainest principles of
                     the name of Sir Isaac Newton appears in this list, the number
Itreasoning.
of advocates for errour must be considerable.
a
                                                                                a

                                                                           is,
                                                                                                           in
                                                                   however, to be recollected,
that for much longer period, men scarcely inferiour to Newton in genius, and
his equals, probably, in industry, maintained variety of positions
                                                                                                               philoso-
            REPORT ON CERTAIN BRANCHES OF ANALYSIS.         191

tities as having a real existence in algebra, however vain might
be the attempt to interpret their meaning.

   Both Mr. Frend and Baron Maseres were sensible of the con
sequences of admitting the truth of this theory of the compo
sition of equations as far as their system was concerned, and it
must be allowed that they have struggled against it with con
siderable ingenuity: they admitted the possibility of multiple
real, that is, positive roots, and which are all equally congruous
to the problem whose solution was required through the medium
of the equation, indicating an indetermination in the problem
proposed : but it would be easy to propose problems leading to

equations whose roots were real and positive, and yet not con
gruous to the problem proposed, whose existence must be ad

mitted upon their own principles ; and if so, why not admit the

existence of other roots, whether negative or impossible, to
which the algebraical solution of the problem might lead, though
they might admit of no very direct interpretation, in conformity
with the expressed conditions of the problem*?

phy, which were overthrown by a more accurate investigation of nature ; and
if the name Ptolemy can no longer support his epicycles, nor that of Des
Cartes his vortices, Newton's dereliction of the principles of reasoning cannot
establish the fallacious notion, that every equation has as many roots as it has
dim"eTnhsiisonnso."tion of Newton and others is founded on precipitation. Instead of
a patient examination of the subject, an hypothesis which accounts for many
appearances is formed; where it fails, unintelligible terms are used; in those
terms indolence acquiesces : much time is wasted on a jargon which has the
appearance of science, and real knowledge is retarded. Thus volumes upon
volumes have been written on the stupid dreams of Athanasius, and on the im
possible roots of an equation of n dimensions."
   This work of Mr. Frend, though containing many assertions which show
great distrust of the results of algebraical science which were in existence at
the time it was written, presents a very clear and logical view of the principles
of arithmetical algebra.
The voluminous labours of Baron Maseres are contained in his Scriploret
Logarilhmici, and in a thick volume of Tracts on the Resolution of Cubic and
Biquadratic Equations. He seems generally to have forgotten that any change
had taken place in the science of algebra between the age of Ferrari, Cardan,
Des Cartes, and Harriot, and the end of the 18th century; and by considering
all algebraical formulae as essentially arithmetical, he is speedily overwhelmed
by the same multiplicity of cases (which are all included in the same really al
gebraical formula) which embarrassed and confounded the first authors of the
science.
   · Thus,  in the solution  of the  following   problem :  " Sold a horse for 24/.,

and by so doing lost as much per cent, as the horse cost me : required the
prime cost of the horse ?"   we arrive
                              100 x --  at  the  equation
                                        3?       2400;
                                            =
if we subtract both sides of this equation from 2500, we get
                               2500 -- 100 x + x- = 100,

                           or a? -- 100 x + 2500 = 100,
inasmuch as the quantities upon each side of the sign = are in both coses
192

If- the authors of this attempt at algebraical reform had been
better acquainted with the more modern results of the science,
they would have felt the total inadequacy of the very limited
science of arithmetical algebra to replace it ; and they would
probably have directed their attention to discover whether any
principles were necessary to be assumed, which were not neces
sarily deducible as propositions from arithmetic or arithmetical
algebra, though they might be suggested by them. As it was,
however, these speculations did not receive the consideration
which they really merited ; and it is very possible that the
attempt which was made by one of their authors to connect the
errors in reasoning, which he attacked, as forming part only of
a much more extensive class to which the human mind is liable
from the influence of prejudice or fashion, had a tendency to
divert men of an enlarged acquaintance with the results of
algebra from such a cautious and sustained examination of them
as was required for their refutation, or rather for such a correc
tion of them as was really necessary to establish the science of

Ialgebra upon its proper basis.
     mknaoswtersth*atoiftailsgetbhreaicoaplinisocnienocfe,mtahnayt  persons, even amongst
the                                                                 arithmetic does supply

identical with each other : if we extract the square root on both sides, re
jecting the negative value of the square root, we get in the first case
                                   50 -- * = 10,

and in the second,                 x -- 50 = 10.

The first of these simple equations gives usi = 40, and the second x = 60, both

of which satisfy the conditions of the problem proposed : the two roots which
are thus obtained, strictly by means of arithmetical algebra, show that the pro
blem proposed is to a certain extent indeterminate. Mr. Frend and Baron

Maseres contended that multiple real roots, which are always the indication
of a similar indetermination in the problems which lead to such equations,

might be obtained by arithmetical algebra alone, and that all other roots were
useless fictions, which could lead to no practical conclusions. But it is very easy
to show, that incongruous and real, as well as negative and impossible roots,
                                                   of the                    : thus, if it
may  equally   ind"ictoatfeintdhe   impossibility          problem proposed
was  proposed                      a number the    double  of whose square   exceeds three
times the number itself by 5," we shall find £ and -- 1 for the roots of the
resulting equation, both of which equally indicate the impossibility of the pro
ble*mCparuocphosye,d,whifo
                            by number be    meant a whole positive  number.    discoveries,
                              has enriched    analysis with many    important

and who is justly celebrated for his almost unequalled command over its lan
guage, has made it the principal object of his admirable work, entitled Court
d'Analyse de VEcole Royule Polytechnique, to meet the difficulties which pre
sent themselves in the transition from arithmetical to symbolical algebra : and
though he admits to the fullest extent the essential distinction between them,
in the ultimate form which the latter science assumes, yet he considers the
principles of one as deducible from those of the other, and presents the rules
for the concurrence and incorporation of signs ; for the inverse relation of the
operations called addition and subtraction, multiplication and division ; for
            REPORT ON CERTAIN BRANCHES OF ANALYSIS.                   193

a sufficient basis for symbolical algebra considered under its
most general form ; that symbols, considered as representing
numbers, may represent every kind of concrete magnitude ;

the indifference of the order of succession of different algebraical operations,
as so many theorems founded upon the ordinary principles and reasonings of
arithmetic. In order to show, however, the extraordinary vagueness of the
reasoning which is employed to establish these theorems, we will notice some
of them in detail : On represenie, says he, les grandeurs qui doivent servir d'ac-
croissements, par des nombres precedes du signe +, et les grandeurs qui doivent
servir de diminutions par des nombres price'des du signe -- . Cela posi, les signes
-+- et -- place's devant les nombres peuvent itre compares, suivant la remarque

qui en a etifaite1, a des adjectifs place's aupres de leurs substantifs. It is unques
tionable, however, that in the most common cases of the interpretation of
specific magnitudes affected with the signs + and -- , there is no direct refer
ence either to increase or diminution, to addition or to subtraction. He sub

sequently gives those signs a conventional interpretation, as denoting quan
tities which are opposed to each other ; and assuming the existence of quan

tities affected by independent signs, and denoting -f A by a, and -- A by b,
he savs that
                  a=           A             +6=-A
              +   a=       +   A
              --           --                -- 6 = + A;

and therefore,                               -+(-(A-A))==-+AA;

           -+,((++AA) =)-+-AA

which he considers as a sufficient proof of the rule of the concurrence of
signs in whatever operations they may occur ; though it requires a very slight
examination of this process of reasoning to show that it involves several ar
bitrary assumptions and interpretations which may or may not be consistent
with each other. In the proofs which he has given of the other fundamental
theorems which we have                       we shall find  :mtahnuys,ot"hesrubintsrtaacntcieosn
of similar confusion both  mentioned above,  in reasoning
                           in language and
is the inverse of addition in arithmetic ; then therefore, also, subtraction is
the inverse of addition in algebra, even when applied to quantities affected
with the signs + and -- , and whatever those quantities may be." But is
this a conclusion or an assumption ? or in what manner can we explain in
             the process which the mind follows in effecting
Ifw" ordas  and b be whole numbers, it may be proved that      such   a deduction ?
                                                              a b is  identical with

b a : therefore, a b is identical with b a, whatever a and b may denote, and
whatever may be the interpretation of the operation which connects them."
But any attempt to establish this conclusion, without a previous definition
of the meaning of the operation of multiplication when applied to such quanti
ties, will show it to be altogether impracticable. The system which he has fol
lowed, not merely in the establishment of the fundamental operations, but
likewise in the interpretation of what he terms symbolical expressions and
symbolical equations, requires the introduction of new conventions, which are not
the less arbitrary because they are rendered necessary for the purpose of
making the results of the science consistent with each other : some of those
conventions I believe to be necessary, and others not ; but in almost every in
stance I should consider them introduced at the wrong place, and more or
less inconsistently with the professed grounds upon which the science is

founded.

1833.       1 By Bue-e in the Philosophical Transactions, 1806.
                                                     o
194 THIRD REPORT -- 1833.

that the operations of addition, subtraction, multiplication and
division are used in one science and in the other in no sense

which the mind may not comprehend by a practicable, though
it may not be by a very simple, process of generalization ; that

we may be enabled by similar means to conceive both the use

and the meaning of the signs + and -- , when used independ

ently ; and that though we may be startled and somewhat em

barrassed by the occurrence of impossible quantities, yet that
investigations in which they present themselves may generally
be conducted by other means, and those difficulties may be
evaded which it may not be very easy or very prudent to en

counter directly and openly.
   In reply, however, to such opinions, it ought to be remarked
that arithmetic and algebra, under no view of their relation to

each other, can be considered as one science, whatever may be

the nature of their connexion with each other ; that there is
nothing in the nature of the symbols of algebra which can es
sentially confine or limit their signification or value ; that it is
an abuse of the term generalization* to apply it to designate

the process of mind by which we pass from the meaning of a-- b,
when a is greater than b, to its meaning when a is less than b,
or from that of the product a b, when a and b are abstract num

bers, to its meaning when a and b are concrete numbers of the
same or of a different kind ; and similarly in every case where
a result is either to be obtained or explained, where no pre
       definition or explanation can be   given of the
vious                                     should grant  operation
upon   which it depends : and even if we                the legiti
macy of such generalizations, we do necessarily arrive at a new
science much more general than arithmetic, whose principles,
however derived, may be considered as the immediate, though
not the ultimate foundation of that system of combinations of

symbols which constitutes the science of algebra. It is more
natural and philosophical, therefore, to assume such principles
as independent and ultimate, as far as the science itself is con

cerned, in whatever manner they may have been suggested, so

that it may thus become essentially a science of symbols and
their combinations, constructed upon its own rules, which may

   · The operations in arithmetical algebra can be previously defined, whilst
those in symbolical algebra, though bearing the same name, cannot: their
meaning, however, when the nature of the symbols is known, can be generally,
but by no means necessarily, interpreted. The process, therefore, by which we
pass from one science to the other is not an ascent from particulars to generals,
which is properly called generalization, but one which is essentially arbitrary,
though restricted with a specific view to its operations and their results admit
ting of such interpretations as may make its applications most generally useful.
         REPORT ON CERTAIN BRANCHES OF ANALYSIS.              195

be applied to arithmetic and to all other sciences by interpreta
tion : by this means, interpretation will follow, and not precede,
the operations of algebra and their results ; an order of suc
cession which a very slight examination of their necessary
changes of meaning, corresponding to the changes in the spe
cific values and applications of the symbols involved, will very

speedily make manifest.
But though the science of arithmetic, or of arithmetical al
gebra, does not furnish an adequate foundation for the science
of symbolical algebra, it necessarily suggests its principles, or
rather its laws of combination ; for in as much as symbolical al
gebra, though arbitrary in the authority of its principles, is not
arbitrary in their application, being required to include arith
metical algebra as well as other sciences, it is evident that their
rules must be identical with each other, as far as those sciences

proceed together in common : the real distinction between them
will arise from the supposition or assumption that the symbols
in symbolical algebra are perfectly general and unlimited both
in value and representation, and that the operations to which
they are subject are equally general likewise. Let us now
consider some of the consequences of such an assumption.

  A system of symbolical algebra will require the assumption
of the independent use of the signs + and -- .
For the general rule in arithmetical algebra* informs us,
that the result of the subtraction of b + c from a is denoted
by a -- b -- c,            a -- (b +      = a -- b -- c, its
being limited    or  that  necessity  c)  supposing that b    application
                 by  the                                      + c is less
                                      of
than a. The general hypothesis made in symbolical algebra,
namely, that symbols are unlimited in value, and that operations
are equally applicable in all cases, would necessarily lead us
to the conclusion that a -- (b  + c) = a -- b -- c   for all values
of the symbols, and therefore,   also, when b = a,   in which case

we have          a -- (a + c) = a -- a -- c = -- c.

In a similar manner, also, we find

               a -- (a -- c) = a -- a + c = + c = cf.
   We are thus necessarily led to the assumption of the exist
ence of such quantities as -- c and + c, or of symbols preceded

   · Whatever general symbolical conclusions are true in arithmetical algebra
must be true likewise in symbolical algebra, otherwise one science could not
include the other. This is a most important principle, and will be the subject
of particular notice hereafter.

   t For it appears from arithmetical algebra that a -- a = 0, and that a -- a
+ 6 = 6.

                                      o2
19G THIRD REPORT 1833.

by the independent      signs     *+   and --  a, ffwechtiicohnsnoofloqnugaenrtidteyn.oteIt
operations, though      they     may  denote
appears likewise that + c is identical with c, but that -- c is a
quantity of a different nature from c : the interpretation of its
meaning must depend upon the joint consideration of the spe
cific nature of the magnitude denoted by a, and of the symbolical
conditions which the sign -- , thus used, is required to satisfyf.
In a similar manner, the result of the operation, or rather
the operation itself, of extracting the square root of such a
quantity as a -- b is impossible, unless a is greater than b. To
remove the limitation in such cases, (an essential condition in
symbolical algebra,) we assume the existence of a sign such
as s/ -- 1 ; so that if we should suppose b = a + c, we should

get V(a -- b) = </ {a -- (a + c)} = */(a-- a--c) = V(-- c)

= >/ -- 1 c %. In       a similar manner, in order  to make the ope
ration universally        applicable, when the »th  root of a -- b is
Vrequired, we assume the existence of a sign
                                                    -- 1, for which,

as will afterwards appear, equivalent symbolical forms can al

ways be found, involving */ -- 1 and numerical quantities.
   By assuming, therefore, the independent existence of the

signs +, -- , v"l, and s/ -- 1, (1)", and (-- 1)"§, we shall obtain
a symbolical result in all those operations, which we call addi
tion, subtraction, multiplication, division, extraction of roots,
and raising of powers, though their meaning may or may not be
identical with that which they possess in arithmetic. Let us
now inquire a little further into the assumptions which deter
mine the symbolical character and relation of these funda

mental operations.

   The operations called addition and subtraction are denoted
by the signs + and -- .

   They are the inverse of each other.

· That is, not preceded by other symbols as in the expressions a -- c and

fa + c.

      Amongst these conditions, the principal is, that if -- c be subjected to
the operation  denoted   by the  sign -- , it will become identical with  + c:  thus,
                        It does  not follow, however, that the sign --    thus  used,
a -- (-- c) =  a + c.
must necessarily admit of interpretation.
X The symbolical form, however, of this and of similar signs is not arbi
I \/trary, but dependent upon the general laws of symbolical combination.
§ do not assert the necessity of considering such signs as                -- 1, (1)",
(--1)", as forming essentially a part of the earliest and most fundamental as
sumptions of algebra : the necessity for their introduction will arise when
those operations with which they are connected are first required to be con
sidered, and will in all cases be governed by the general principle above men

tioned.
           REPORT ON CERTAIN BRANCHES OF ANALYSIS.                   197

   In the  concurrence          of the signs + and -- , in whatever  man
                                                                     +, or
ner used,  if two like         signs come together, whether + and
-- and --                      replaced by the single sign + ; and   when
           , they are
two unlike signs come together, whether + and -- , or -- and + ,
they are replaced by the single sign -- .
When different operations are performed or indicated, it is
indifferent in what order they succeed each other.
   The operations called multiplication and division are de
noted by the signs x and -+-, or more frequently by a conven
tional position of the quantities or symbols with respect to
each other : thus, the product of a and b is denoted by a x b,
a . b, or a b ; the quotient of a divided by b is denoted by

a-i-b, or by -- .
                            b
   The operations of multiplication and division are the inverse
of each other.
   In the concurrence of the signs + and    -- in multiplication or
                                            whether + and + , or
division, if two like signs come together,
-- and -- , they are replaced by the single sign + ; and if two un
like signs come together, whether + and -- , or -- and + , they
are replaced by the single sign -- .

   When different operations succeed each other, it is not indif-
rent in what order they are taken.
   We arrive at all these rules, when the operations are denned

and when the symbols are numbers, by deductions, not from
each other, but from the definitions themselves : in other words,

these conclusions are not dependent upon each other, but upon
the definitions only. In the absence, therefore, of such defini
tions of the meaning of the operations which these signs or
forms of notation indicate, they become assumptions, which are
independent of each other, and which serve to define, or rather
to interpret* the operations, when the specific nature of the
symbols is known ; and which also identify the results of those

operations with the corresponding results in arithmetical alge
bra, when the symbols are numbers and when the operations are
arithmetical operations.
   The rules of symbolical combination which are thus assumed

    * To define, is to assign beforehand the meaning or conditions of a term or
operation ; to interpret, is to determine the meaning of a term or operation
conformably to definitions or to conditions previously given or assigned. It is
for this reason, that we define operations in arithmetic and arithmetical alge
bra conformably to their popular meaning, and we interpret them in symboli
cal algebra conformably to the symbolical conditions to which they are sub
ject.
198 THIRD REPORT 18S3.

have been suggested only by the corresponding rules in arith
metical algebra. They cannot be said to be founded upon them,
for they are not deducible from them ; for though the opera
tions of addition and subtraction, in their arithmetical sense,
are applicable to all quantities of the same kind, yet they ne
cessarily require a different meaning when applied to quanti
ties which are different in their nature, whether that difference
consists in the kind of quantity expressed by the unaffected
symbols, or in the different signs of affection of symbols de
noting the same quantity ; neither does it necessarily follow
that in such cases there exists any interpretation which can be
given of the operations, which                  to satisfy the re
quired symbolical conditions.   is competent    reasons that the

                                It is for such
investigation of such interpretations, when they are discover
able, becomes one of the most important and most essential of
the deductive processes which are required in algebra and its

applications.
   Supposing that all the operations which are required to be

performed in algebra are capable of being symbolically de
noted, the results of those operations will constitute what are
called equivalent forms, the discovery and determination of
which form the principal business of algebra. The greatest
part of such equivalent forms result from the direct applica
tion of the rules for the fundamental operations of algebra,
when these rules regard symbolical combinations only : but
in other cases, the operations which produce them being nei
ther previously defined nor reduced to symbolical rules, unless
for some specific values of the symbols, we are compelled to
resort, as we have already done in the discovery and assump
tion of the fundamental rules of algebra themselves, to the re
sults obtained for such specific values, for the purpose of dis
covering the rules which determine the symbolical nature of
the operation for all values of the symbols. As this principle,
which may be termed the principle of the permanence of equi
valent forms, constitutes the real foundation of all the rules of
symbolical algebra, when viewed in connexion with arithmeti
cal algebra considered as a science of suggestion, it may be
proper to express it in its most general form, so that its autho
rity may be distinctly appealed to, and some of the most im
portant of its consequences may be pointed out.

    Direct proposition :
   Whatever form is algebraically equivalent to another when
expressed in general symbols, must continue to be equivalent,
whatever those symbols denote.

Converse proposition :
REPORT ON CERTAIN BRANCHES OF ANALYSIS.  199

    Whatever equivalent form is discoverable in arithmetical
algebra considered as the science of suggestion, when the sym
bols are general in their form, though specific in their value,
will continue to be an equivalent form when the symbols are
general in their nature as well as in their form *.

   The direct proposition must be true, since the laws of com
bination of symbols by which such equivalent forms are de
duced, have no reference to the specific values of the symbols.

   The converse proposition must be true, for the following

Ifreasons :

       there be an equivalent form when the symbols are general
in their nature as well as in their form, it must coincide with
the form discovered and proved in arithmetical algebra, where
the symbols are general in their form but specific in their na
ture ; for in passing from the first to the second, no change in
its form can take place by the first proposition.

   Secondly, we may assume the existence of such an equivalent
form in symbols which are general both in their form and in
their nature, since it will satisfy the only condition to which
all such forms are subject, which is, that of perfect coincidence
with the results of arithmetical algebra, as far as such results
are common to both sciences.

   Equivalent forms may be said to have a necessary existence
when the operation which produces them admits of being de
fined, or the rules for performing it of being expressly laid
down : in all other cases their existence may be said to be
conventional or assumed. Such conventional results, however,

are as much real results as those which have a necessary ex

istence, in as much as they satisfy the only condition of their
existence, which the principle of the permanence of equivalent
forms imposes upon them : thus, the series for (1 + x) " has a
necessary existence whenever the nature of the operation upon

f1 + x which it indicates can be defined ; that is, when n is a

whole or a fractional, a positive or negative, number ; but for
all other values of n, where no previous definition or interpre
tation of the nature of the operation which connects it with its
equivalent series can be given, then its existence is conventional
only, though, symbolically speaking, it is equally entitled to be
considered as an equivalent form in one case as in the other.

   It is evident that a system of symbolical algebra might be

  t· Peacock's Algebra, Art. 132.

      The meaning of (1 + x)" cannot properly be said to be defined when n
is a fractional number, whether positive or negative, or a negative whole num
ber, but to be ascertained by interpretation conformably to the principle of
the permanence of equivalent forms.
 200 THIRD REPORT 1833.

 formed, in which the symbols and the conventional operations
 to which they were required to be subjected would be perfectly
general both in value and application. If, however, in the con
 struction of such a system, we looked to the assumption of such
rules of operation or of combination only, as would be sufficient,
 and not more than sufficient, for deducing equivalent forms,
 without any reference to any subordinate science, we should be
altogether without any means of interpreting either our opera
 tions or their results, and the science thus formed would be

one of symbols only, admitting of no applications whatever. It

 is for this reason that we adopt a subordinate science as a sci
ence of suggestion, and we frame our assumptions so that our
results shall be the same as those of that science, when the
 symbols and the operations upon them become identical like
wise : and in as much as arithmetic is the science of calculation,
 comprehending all sciences which are reducible to measure and
 to number ; and in as much as arithmetical algebra is the imme
 diate form which arithmetic takes when its digits are replaced
by symbols and when the fundamental operations of arithmetic
are applied to them, those symbols being general in form,
though specific in value, it is most convenient to assume it as
the subordinate science, which our system of symbolical algebra
must be required to comprehend in all its parts. The principle
of the permanence of equivalent forms is the most general ex
pression of this law, in as much as its truth is absolutely neces
sary to the identity of the results of the two sciences, when the
 symbols in both denote the same things and are subject to the

same conditions. It was with reference to this principle that
the fundamental assumptions respecting the operations of ad

dition, subtraction, multiplication and division were said to be
suggested by the ascertained rules of the operations bearing
the same names in arithmetical algebra. The independent use
of the signs + and -- , and of other signs of affection, was an as
sumption requisite to satisfy the still more general principle of
symbolical algebra, that its symbols should be unlimited in value
and representation, and the operations to which they are sub
ject unlimited in their application.

    In arithmetical algebra, the definitions of the operations de
termine the rules ; in symbolical algebra, the rules determine
the meaning of the operations, or more properly speaking, they
furnish the means of interpreting them : but the rules of the
former science are invariably the same as those of the latter,
in as much as the rules of the latter are assumed with this view,
and merely differ from the former in the universality of their
applications : and in order to secure this universality of theit
            REPORT ON CERTAIN BRANCHES OF ANALYSIS.                  201

applications, such additional signs* are assumed, and of such a
symbolical form, as those applications may render necessary.
We call those rules, or their equivalent symbolical consequences,

assumptions, in as much as they are not deducible as conclusions
from any previous knowledge of those operations which have

corresponding names : and we might call them arbitrary as
sumptions, in as much as they are arbitrarily imposed upon a
science of symbols and their combinations, which might be
adapted to any other assumed system of consistent rules. In
the assumption, therefore, of a system of rules such as will make
its symbolical conclusions necessarily coincident with those of
arithmetical algebra, as far as they can exist in common, we in
no respect derogate from the authority or completeness of sym
bolical algebra, considered with reference to its own conclu
sions and to their connexion with each other, at the same time

that we give to them a meaning and an application which they
woIutldfonllootwosthfreormwistehispovsiseewsso. f the relation of arithmetical and
symbolical algebra, that all the results of arithmetical algebra
which are general in form are true likewise in symbolical
algebra, whatever the symbols may denote. This conclusion
may be said to be true in virtue of the principle of the perma
nence of equivalent forms, or rather it may be said to be the
proper expression of that principle. Its consequences are most
important, as far as the investigation of the fundamental pro
positions of the science are concerned, in as much as it enables
us to investigate them in the most simple cases, when the
operations which produce them are perfectly defined and un

Ifderstood, and when the general symbols denote positive whole
numbers.    the conclusions thus obtained do not involve in

their expression any condition which is essentially connected
with the specific values of the symbols, they may be at once
tarallnvsafelureres dofttohesysmymbboolilcsawl ahlagtesboreav,ear\n.d considered as true for

   Thus, coefficients in arithmetical algebra, such as m in m a,
which are general in form, lead to the interpretation of such

   * There is no necessary limit to the multiplication of such signs : the sign*
-J-, -- , (1)" and ( -- 1)" and their equivalents (for the symbolical form of such
signs is not arbitrary), comprehend all those signs of affection which are re
quired by those operations with which we are at present acquainted.
t Some formulae are essentially arithmetical : of this kind is 1 . 2 . 3 . . . r,
1--.2in which r must be a whole number. The formula --\--- ' ' '

                                                              ...r

is symbolical with respect to m, but arithmetical with respect to r. Such cases,
and their extension to general values of r, will be more particularly considered

hereafter.
202 THIRD REPORT -- 1833.

expressions as m a in symbolical algebra, when m is a number
whole or fractional, and a any symbol whatsoever. When m, n
and a are whole numbers, it very readily appears that ma + na
= (m +                that ma   --n       a = (m --         a:                 con-
elusions   n) a, and            for       all values  no)f        the   same
           are true   likewise                                m,   n   and a.    In
arithmetical algebra we assume «s, a3, a4, &c, to represent a a,
a a a, aa a a, &c, and we readily arrive at the conclusion that
am x a" = am + ", when m and n are whole numbers : the same

conclusion must be true also when m and n are any quantities
whatsoever. In a similar manner we pass from the result
(a»)" = amn, when n is a whole number, to the same conclusion
for all values of the symbols *.

   The preceding conclusions are extremely simple and element
ary, but they are not obtainable for all values of the symbols
by the aid of any other principle than that of the permanence
of equivalent forms : they are assumptions which are made in
conformity with that principle, or rather for the purpose of
rendering that principle universal ; and it will of course follow
that all interpretations of those expressions where m and n are

not whole numbers must be subordinate to such assumptions.

Thus, Tr + -2=(105-^-2/ a = a, an(l therefore -5- must
mean one half of a, whatever a may be ; a* x ar = a* + *

= a = a, and therefore a* must mean the square root of a,
whatever a may be, whenever such an operation admits of

interpretation. In a similar manner -5- must mean one third

paarrlty,  and a* the cube   root of a,   whatever    a may be, and simil
           in other cases :  it follows,  therefore,  that the interpreta

tion of the meaning of a , a , &c, is determined by the general

· The general theorems ma-\-na = (m-\-n) a and ma -- na=(n -- n) o,

=a",am X a"=zam + n and
                      ^ = oCT_", (am)n = am,,         and           "          which
                                                            (am)

are deduced by the principle of the permanence of equivalent forms, and which
are supplementary to the fundamental rules of algebra, are of the most essen
tial importance in the simplification and abridgement of the results of those
operations, though not necessary for the formation of the equivalent results
themselves. It also appears from the four last of the above-mentioned theorems
that the operations of multiplication and division, involution and evolution, are
Ifperformed by the addition and subtraction, multiplication and division, of the
indices, when adapted to the same symbol or base.     such indices or logarithms
be calculated and registered with reference to a scale of their corresponding
numbers, they will enable us to reduce the order of arithmetical operations by

two unities, if their orders be regulated by the following scale ; addition (1), sub
traction (2), multiplication (3), division (4), involution (5), and evolution (6).
        REPORT ON CERTAIN BRANCHES OF ANALYSIS.                               203

principle of indices, and also that we ought not to say that we

assume a to denote »Ja, and a* to denote l/a, as is commonly

done *, in as much as such phrases would seem to indicate that

such assumptions are independent, and not subject to the same
common principle in all cases.

   In all cases of indices which involve or designate the inverse
processes of evolution, we must have regard likewise to the
other great principle of symbolical algebra, which authorizes
the existence of signs of affection. The square root of a may

be either affected with the sign + or with the sign -- ; for + a

x -f- a , and -- a* x -- a , will equally have for their result
+ a or a, by the general rule for the concurrence of similar
signs and the general principle of indices : in a similar manner

a? may be affected with the multiple sign of affection (1)*, if

there are any symbolical values of (1)* different from + 1 (equi
valent to the sign   +), which will satisfy the requisite
                                                                              symbo
lical conditions f.  It is the possible existence of such
                                                                              signs of
affection, which is consequent upon the universality of alge
braical operations, which makes it expedient to distinguish be
tween the results which are not affected by such signs, and
the same results when affected by them. The first class of
results or values are such as are alone considered in arithmeti

cal algebra, and we shall therefore term them arithmetical va

lues, though the quantities themselves may not be arithmetical :

the second class may be termed algebraical values, in as much
as they are altogether, as far as they are different from the

arithmetical values, the results of the generality of the opera
tions of symbolical algebra.

   This distinction may generally be most conveniently ex

pressed by considering such a sign as a factor, or a symbolical
quantity multiplied according to the rule for that operation
into the arithmetical value : in this sense 4- 1 and -- 1 may be
considered as factors which are equivalent to the signs + and
-- , that is, equivalent to affecting the quantities into which
they are multiplied with the signs + and -- , according to the

· Wood's Algebra, Definitions.
t That
(       there        any symbolical expression different from                 such as
     a                                                                        1,

         1)                                                                            I.
              ,      -^ the cubes of which are identical with

                    is,

                 if

                                         is
                                                                           ,
9 -, and

In similar manner we may consider the existence of multiple values of 1" or
 -- and, therefore, of multiple signs of affection corresponding to them, as

consequent upon the general laws of combination of symbolical algebra, and as
results to be determined from those laws, and whose existence, also, de
                                                                              is

pendent upon them.
204                  THIRD REPORT 1833.

general rule for the concurrence of signs. In a similar manner

we may consider (1) (a) as equivalent to (o) ; (1)T (ay as

equivalent to (a)T; (I)' a" as equivalent to a" ; (--1)" (a)' as
equivalent to (--a)n, and similarly in other cases: in all such
cases the algebraical quantity into which the equivalent sign
or its equivalent factor is multiplied, is supposed to possess its
arithmetical value only *.
   The series for (1 + x)n,
exhibited under a general                                             when   n is a whole number,  may be
                                                                      form,  which is independent
                                                                                                    of the
specific value of the index ; for such a series may be continued

indefinitely in form, though all its terms after the (» + l)th
must become equal to zero. Thus, the series

     (l(1 + *)» = (1)-                                                + nx + "^~g1*«2 +

indefinitely continued, in which n is particular in value (a whole
number) though       general in form, must                                    be true also, in     virtue
of the principle                                                             equivalent forms,     when
                     of the permanence of

n is general in value as well as in formf .
   This theorem, which, singly considered, is, of all others, the
most important in analysis, has been the subject of an almost
unlimited variety of demonstrations. Like all other theorems
whose consequences present themselves very extensively in
algebraical results, it is more or less easy to pass from some
one of those consequences to the theorem itself: but all the
demonstrations which have been given of                                      J, it,  with the excep
tion of the principle of one given by Euler have been con
fined to such values of the index, namely, whole or fractional
numbers, whether positive or negative, as made not only
the development depend upon definable operations, but like
wise assumed the existence of the series itself, leaving the form
of its coefficients alone undetermined.                                              evident, however,
                                                                             It

                                                                                 is

that there existed a general form of this series, its form could
Jt
    if

             is
                        a
                                   1"
                                       is
                                                                  1.
    · This separation of the symbolical sign of affection from its arithmetical
subject, or rather the expression of the signs of affection explicitly, and not im
plicitly, frequently important, and affords the only means of explaining many
paradoxes (such as the question of the existence of real logarithms of negative

Ifnumbers), by which the greatest analysts have been more or less embarrassed.

           such series should, for any assigned value of n, have more symbolical
values than one, one of them will be the arithmetical value, inasmuch as one

symbolical value of  always
In the Nov. Comm. Pelropol. for 1774.
          REPORT ON CERTAIN BRANCHES OF ANALYSIS.                                                                   205

be detected for any value of the index whatever, which was

general in form, and therefore, also, when that index was a

whole number ; a case in which the interpretation of the opera
tion designated by the index, as well as the performance of the
operation itself, was the most simple and immediate.

   That such a series, likewise, would satisfy the only sym
bolical conditions which the general principles of indices im
poses upon the binomial, might be very easily shown ; for if
m and n be whole numbers, then if the two series

          (1 + x)m =lm(l + mx + "i"'~1^2 + &c.)

          (1 + *)- b1'(i+« + ~f^** + &c.)

be multiplied together, according to the rule for that purpose,
we must obtain

(1 +,)--= 1-- (i + (.+ n)x + fr+y**-*>&<,,)

a series in which m + n has replaced m or n in its component
factors : and in as much as we must obtain the same symbolical
result of this multiplication, whatever be the specific values of
m and n, it follows, that if the same form of these series repre
sents the development of (1 + x)n and (1 + x)n, whatever m and
n may be, then, likewise, the series for the product of (1 + x)m
and (1 + x)n, or (1 +                               x)m+n, would    be   that   which   arose from
putting m + n in the                                               n in  each   of the  component
S                                                   place of m or
        If,
factors.     therefore, we assumed (m) and («) to represent
              n)                                    S
                      S (1
the series for                                             (1
                                                              ; (1

                                                                    S

                                                                                      (1

                                                                                  +
                                                                                   S

                                                                                                                (1
                          + x)m and                 + x)n, when m and n are any
                                                    then + x)m x                x)n =                               + x)m + *
qw=uiallntpi(ottiosess+esswhpar=tescoiesev(lemyr),  x (w) or, in other words, the series
                                                    the same symbolical properties with the
binomial to
              which they                            are required to be equivalent.                                  and
  It the     equation am                            x a" = am+n, for all values of m
is                                                                                                                       n,
                is
which determines the interpretation of am or a", when such an

interpretation possible in other words, such quantities pos
sess no properties which are independent of that equation. The
                                                    ;                           x)n, for all values of n,
                                                                            (1

                                                                          +
same remark of course extends to

and similarly, likewise, to those series which are equivalent to
it. That all such series must possess the same form would be
evident from considering that the symbolical properties of
   + x)n undergo no change for a change in the value of », and

that no series could be permanently equivalent to whose form
(1

                                                                           it
206                     THIRD REPORT 1833.

was not equally permanent likewise. In assuming, therefore, the
existence of such a permanent series, our symbolical conclu
sions are necessarily consistent with each other, and it is the
interpretation of the operations which produce them, which
must be made in conformity with them. It is true that we can
extract the square or the cube root of 1 + x, and we can also
determine the corresponding series by the processes of arith

xfmetical algebra ; and we likewise interpret (1 + and (1 + xy

to mean the square and the cube root of 1 + x,    in conformity
with the general principle of indices. The coincidence of the

series for (1 + ar)* and (1 + xy, whether produced by the
processes of arithmetical algebra, or deduced by the principle
of the permanence of equivalent forms from the series for
                                 of the correctness of our interpreta
(1 +   x)n,  would be a proof    truth of the general principle itself.
tion,  not   a condition of the
In order to distinguish more accurately the precise limits of
hypothesis and of proof in the establishment of the fundamental
propositions of symbolical algebra, it may be expedient to re
state, at this point in the progress of our inquiry, the order in
which the hypotheses and the demonstrations succeed each
other.
We are supposed to be in possession of a science of arith

metical algebra whose symbols denote numbers or arithmetical
quantities only, and whose laws of combination are capable of
strict demonstration, without the aid of any principle which is
not furnished by our knowledge of common arithmetic.
The symbols in arithmetical algebra, though general in form,
are not general in value, being subject to limitations, which are
necessary in many cases, in order to secure the practicability
or possibility of the operations to be performed. In order to

effect the transition from arithmetical to symbolical algebra, we

now make the following hypotheses :
(1.) The symbols are unlimited, both in value and in repre
sentation.
(2.) The operations upon them, whatever they may be, are
possible in all cases.
   (3.) The laws of combination of the symbols are of such a
kind as to coincide universally with those in arithmetical algebra

when the symbols are arithmetical quantities, and when the
operations to which they are subject are called by the same

names as in arithmetical algebra.
The most general expression of this last condition, and of its

connexion with the first hypothesis, is the law of the perma
REPORT ON CERTAIN BRANCHES OF ANALYSIS.                        207

nence of equivalent forms, which is our proper guide in the
establishment of the fundamental propositions of symbolical
algebra, in the invention of the requisite signs, and in the de
termination of their symbolical form : but in the absence of the
complete enunciation of that law, we may proceed with the in
vestigation of the fundamental rules for addition, subtraction,
multiplication and division, and of the theorems for the collec
tion of multiples, and for the multiplication and involution of
powers of the same symbol, which will, in fact, form a series of
               which are not arbitrary,  but subordinate to
assumptions  which are imposed by our                          the
conditions                                hypotheses : but if  we

suppose those conditions to be incorporated into one general
law, whose truth and universality are admitted, then those as
sumptions become necessary consequences of this law, and
must be considered in the same light with other propositions
which follow, directly or                        fiirfswt epraisnscuipmleesthoef
a demonstrative science.   indirectly, from the
                           In the same manner,
existence of such signs as are requisite to secure the universality
of the operations, the symbolical form of those signs, and the
laws which regulate their use, will be determined by the same
principles upon which the ordinary results of symbolical al

gebra are founded.

   The natural and necessary dependence of these two methods
of proceeding upon each other being once established, we may
adopt either one or the other, as may best suit the form of the

investigation which is under consideration : the great and im
portant conclusion to which we arrive in both cases being, the
transfer of all the conclusions of arithmetical algebra which are
general in form (that is, which do not involve in their expres
sion some restriction which limits the symbols to discontinuous
values,) to symbolical algebra, accompanied by the invention or
use of such signs (with determinate symbolical forms) as may
be necessary to satisfy so general an hypothesis.
There are many expressions which involve symbols which
are necessarily discontinuous in their value, either from the
form in which they present themselves in such expressions or
from some very obvious conventions in their use : thus, when

we say that  cos x = cos (2r* + x),

             and -- cos x = cos { (2 r + I) * + x }

propositions which are only true when r is a whole number,
the limitation is conveyed (though imperfectly) by the con
ventional use of 2 r and 2 r + 1 to express even and odd num
bers ; for otherwise there would be no sufficient reason for not
208 THIRD REPORT -- 1833.

using the simple symbol r both in one case and the other. In
a similar manner, in the expression of Demoivre's theorem

                            (cos i + isT--X sin                                 (r2 t)'  n% n  6),
          = cos (2rnv nf)+ «/ -- sin                                                     +
          a                                                     1                                   is
                                   +
we may suppose n to be any quantity whatsoever*, but r ne

cessarily whole number.                                                                                                  it
   In some cases, however, the construction of the formula
self will sufficiently express the necessary restriction of the
values of one or more of its symbols, without the necessity of
1x2x3resorting to any convention connected with their introduction
  (r

              1)
                    ;.

                          .

                          3

                                     .

                            2

                                            1,

                                      r
                                              (r

                                                          is

                                                                             1)

                                                          (r

                                                                                   2)

                                                           r

                                                                                      is

                                                                                                                  1,
                                                                                                               ,1

                                                                                                        is :
thus, the formula                                                         r, commencing from

essentially arithmetical, and limited by its form to whole and
rpositive values of r.            The same                                the case with the formula
    -- ..                         where some of the successive and strictly
                             .
....arithmetical values of the terms of the series r, -- &c, are
put down but the formula -- --                                                                 subject to
no such restriction, in as much as any number of such factors

may be formed and multiplied together, whatever be the value

of r. In similar manner, the formula
    is
        a                 »        --        ... --r + 1),  (n

                           (» "IT            77T~ ~~r
                                  2

                                         1)
which so extensively used in analysis,                                    + is         unlimited with re

spect to the symbol n, and essentially limited with respect to

the symbol                      under such circumstances that presents
                r                                                                            it

                     :                                                                                   (1

                       it
                            is

                                                        (1
~ l)...(»-ritself in the development of
   In the differential calculus
                                                            + x)n.
                                                          we readily find

                       = n{n-                                                       l)x*-',

and in similar manner also
  r

      is
          is a

                  a

                                 a
                                             +

                                                                       ·

                                                           n
                                                        is
3^*" +Cl *"* + £**"* ·C,,) = «(n-l)..(«-r + l)*»-':

in both these cases the value of                                          unlimited, whilst the value
of
          essentially           positive whole number in other words,
                                                                                    ;

   · The  investigation of this       formula (like the equivalent series for                                + x)m
when n        general symbol,)        requires the aid of the principle of the                             perma

nence of equivalent forms, in common with all other theorems connected with
the general theory of indices. The formula above given involves also impli
citly any sign of affection which the general value of n may introduce for
                                                                                     ++
          (cos     +    -- sin ff)n = (1)" (cos n                         6     x^--i sin
                6           ++ [                                                           n
                      */                                                     +
                                                                                            f)
          = (cos          Va- ~1 sin                                                               n
                                                                                                     t)

                                                                                                              n
                                                                                                                   6) :
                   r2 nn                     */ 2r          t) (cos ni V--l sin

          = cos                                       In
                   (2     it      n   0)  +                 -- sin        (r2       k

                     r                                                           n
              RKPORT ON CERTAIN BRANCHES OF ANALYSIS.                                               209

the principle of equivalent forms might be extended to this for
mula (supposing it to be investigated for integral values of n
and r,) as far as the symbol n is concerned only. This arithme
tical coefficient of differentiation (if such a term may be ap
plied to it,) will present itself in the expression of the rth dif
ferential coefficient (r being a whole positive number,) of all al
gebraical functions *; and it is for this reason that we are appa
rently debarred from considering fractional or general indices
of differentiation when applied to such functions, and that we
are consequently prevented from treating the differential and
integral calculus as the same branch of analysis whose general
laws of derivation are expressed by common formulae.

   But is it not possible to exhibit the coefficient of differentia
tion under some equivalent form which may include general
values of the index of differentiation ? It is well known that
the definite integral

....(adopting Fourier's notation,) is equal to 1 . 2                 n, when n is

a whole number ; and that consequently, under the same cir
cumstances, the coefficient of differentiation or

                                              / d x I log -- )
        Jln (n -- 1) . . . (n -- r + 1) =
                                                        dx     (log  ) l) 1)'
                                                                                  is
and in as much as the form of this equivalent expression                                            not
restricted to integral and positive values of r, we may assume

· Thus     if     "= n^r, we have jrp = (~ lY '£+'££+

               «

           I         2.3i* + 2.3.4.5 1*
                                                . ....
                                .     i&PU =                r
                                have          U-*T)r+4
       "=         1                           1
                                                     2

T             v(i +«*)' we
  ( lf        -L - rfr-1>
_i_and  1  +                    .     r(r-l)(r-2)(r-3)                     &
    X
                                                                            \

      This definite integral, the second of that class of transcendents to which
Legendre has given the name of Integrates Euleriennes, was first considered
by Euler in the fifth volume of the Commentarii Peirojiolitani, in a memoir
on the interpolation of the terms of the series
              1x2x3 1x2x3x4+ 1x2
        is                            +                              &c.,
             1                        p
                                                                   +
                             +
                                                                                                 a
which      full of remarkable views upon the generalization of formula? and
their interpretation. The same memoir contains the first solution of pro
blem involving fractional indices of differentiation.

1833.
210                        THIRD REPORT 1883.

it to be permanent, so long as we do not at the same time as
sume the necessary existence and interpretation of equivalent
results. If, however, such results can be found, either
        foror mforthepasrigtincuolafrintveagluraetsion(,nottheinctoengsriadleraantdionposoitfitvhee)                               gene
rally,
apart                                                                                                                              of r,

                                                                                                                                  values

of the corresponding differential coefficients will involve no
other theoretical difficulty than that which attends the transition
                  fractional and other values of common            indices.
from integral to  Differential Calculus *, has given the
   Euler, in his                                                   name of

inexplicable     functions to   those functions which are apparently
restricted by    their form to  integral and positive values of one or
more of the general symbols which they involve : of this kind

are the functions                                 x,

   1111 x 2 x 3 x                                  1

       T+ 3- + 3-+                                x*

        1l» ++ 12-++13"++                         1x','

        1   +  a -- ft  +  a -- 2b  +             a -- (x -- 1) b
               a-+-b       a + 8b                 a + (x + 1)
               by
and innumerable others which present themselves in the theory
of series. The attempts which he has made to interpolate theis a
series of which such functions form the general terms, areit

                                                                                                                             ft*
properly founded upon the hypothesis of the existence of per
manent equivalent forms, though may not be possible to ex
hibit the explicit forms themselves by means of the existing
signs and symbols of algebra. In the cases which we have
hitherto considered, the forms which were assumed to be per
manent had real previous existence, which necessarily re
sulted from operations which were capable of being defined.
In the case of inexplicable functions, the corresponding perma
nent forms which hypothetically include them, may be aonsi-
dered as having an hypothetical existence only, whose form
degenerates into that of the inexplicable function in the case of
integral         positive values of the  independent variable or va
riables.    and     for the expression   of such cases that definite

             It
integrals find their most indispensable usage.

· Institutiones Calculi Differentialis, Capp. xvi. et xvii. See also an admira
ble posthumous memoir of the same author amongst the additions to the
Edition of that work printed at Pavia in 1787. He had been preceded in such
                 Stirling, an author of great genius and originality, whose la
researches

bours upon the interpolation of series and other subjects have not received
the attention to which they are justly entitled.
          REPORT ON GBRTAIN BRANCHES OF ANALYSIS.                                                   21 1

   It is easy to construct formulae which may exhibit the possi
bility of their thus degenerating into others of a much more

simple form, when one or more of the independent variables be
come whole numbers : of this kind is the formula

    a  +  g  r*sin (2        + S) + y sin (2 r x +                           6Q  +  &c.  *      ,.

                       a + j9sin0 +ysin0,+,&&                                               tKr)'

which is, or is not, identical with $ (r), according as r is a whole
or a fractional number : such functions are termed undulating
functions by Legendre *. We can conceive also the possible
existence of many other transcendents amongst the unknown
and undiscovered results of algebra, which may possess a simi
lar property.
    The transcendent
                             X d*
                                                  (l0S

                                                    I)'

                                                                                      it
mentioned above, possesses many properties which give an
uncommon importance in analysis, and most of all from its fur
nishing the connecting link in the transition from integral
Ifand positive to general indices of differentiation in algebraical
functions.               we designate, as Legendre has done,

                         fo
                       <**(logI)rbyr(l+r),
                                                                                            (1)
we shall readily derive the fundamental equation                                             appears

              r(l +r) = rr(r)-\-

which in form which admits of all values of r.
t                                                                                A+

         is                                                                              r>,
                    a
    · Traiti des Fonciiotu Elliptiquet, torn. xi. p. 476.                               T
    Jtl-In as much as
                             r      _                                                    (1 It

and i"-r                          T (1                                                             +
                                           T                                                        r) A
            dx%-r 
                                                        (1                                                      is
   follows that                                                                                                     a
                                                     +
                                                              n)
                  1 i*-      -- + n)
                                             (r)
it           r                                    also that
                A        = B, and therefore

                       rTr+r)~fV)orrr(r) = r(1
which                                  obvious that the transition from
r
             is is
                                                       :
                                                    it
                                                        is
                                                                          '
          the equation (1) and

                             rf»-r                d,,-r+
                             dl^r*" to dx»-r+l «"

(which equivalent to the simple differentiation of                                  xr, when
constant coefficient), will lead to the same relation between
                                                                                                    and

    (r), whatever be the value of r, whether positive or negative, whole or frac
v2tional. Legendre has apparently limited this equation to positive values of r,.
SI 2                                   THIRD REPORT 1833.

ralso from this equation that if the values of the transcendent

  (r) can be determined for all values of r which are included

(Fonctions Ettiptiques. torn. ii. p. 415,) a restriction which is obviously unne

cessary.
There are two cases in which the coefficient of x"-r in the equation
                                    _ r(ldrx"
                                     dx*   --               T (1 + n)
                                                               -+- n -- r)
requires to be particularly considered : the first is that in which this coeffi
cient becomes infinite ; the second, that in which it becomes equal to zero.
  rThe numerator (1 + n)                   a(nw1dil+linbnen--oinofrit)nhitweerilcl wabsheeec:onmiefn  is any    negative whole
rnumber ; the denominator                                                                             infinite
                                                                                                      n be a    when n -- r is
any negative whole number,
number, and if r be a whole number, either positive or negative,                                                negative   whole
                                                                                                                such that
                                                                                                                           a--r

f»is neg°ative, then the coefficient .1ttUt--; -- r). becomes finite, in as much as

j-j| r_ rT (-- i) (if t be a whole number) =
                                                                          1 xy , and (°) disap-

                                                                                                      d-r

                                                                                                      J~zr^
~pears, therefore, by division : thus all the coefficients                     of                            ·  1 are infinite,

unless     r be  (a--neIg)a"ti,vea  whole number,           such as -- m,      in                     which case it becomes
1.2.                                result which is         easily verified.                          In a similar manner it
        .   m.

would      appear  that the coefficients        of           dr   · --1   are  infinite,              when      n   i.s  a posi

                                                            , _r

tive number, unless r be a negative whole number equal to, or greater than, n.
,,,.The coefficient
                                    .      . will become equal to zero, when 1 + n -- r

is, and when 1 + n is not, equal to zero or to any negative whole number ; for,
under such circumstances, the denominator is infinite and the numerator is
finite.
   As the most important consequences will be found to result from these

critical values of the coefficient of differentiation, we shall proceed to examine
them somewhat in detail.

   (l.)The simple differentials or differential coefficients of constant quantities

are equal to zero, whilst the differentials or differential coefficients to general
indices (positive whole numbers being excepted,) are variable.

Thus

                d*a      di a x0                a r(i)            . x»-l    =  V* x ' d x-I

                 dx*        d xi                 1r(i)

           n(ri)      '«_r(l)JCO+J                                                                    · axJ°++l, -«·«
                                       =   2 Vx             d-    =
                                                         :                  F(2)
                                                            d F1

and similarly in other cases.
(2.) The differentials of zero to general indices (positive whole numbers
being excepted) are not necessarily equal to zero.
ra-.--r)° = ° =
Thus, if we suppose                                                            r (i

                     c   *-"'          we  eet  id\rFo      =       c       -                                ») 'x         :
                   fTo)                                           rw>
T(l r)=if n be                      number, T (1 -- n) =
        a            whole          oo, in which case it is       zae, r,oan: difthrisbeexaplsroesasiopnosiitsivfienitwehuonle
less
           positive

            -- n--
     REPORT ON CERTAIN BRANCHES OF ANALYSIS.                                                               *1S

between any           two successive whole                             numbers,      they can be               de
termined for                                                                        first assigned
                      all other values of r.                             Euler *                               the

_intumis bfeinri,teitwisheanlwnay=s  zero :   if   r  = -- 1,    it  is  finite when n = 1 : if r = --             2,
                                     1 or n  =        : if r =  --   3,  it is finite when n = 1, or n =
or n 3 : and generally if                          2                                                              2,
                                             r be any negative             whole number, there will               be
finite values corresponding                  to every value of           n from 1 to -- r ; we thus get
     d-i 0
     dx-t             C

     _ _d-*Q          Car + Ci

     dx~*
     d-*0 = Cx* +c,, + c
     Ci'-'_d~*0
                                                       ,      Ci J»~«           + C"~* ' * + C"~1-
     dx--                                                 1 . 2 . . (n -- 2)
                      1 . 2 . . (n -- 1)

This is the true theory of the introduction of complementary arbitrary func
tions in the ordinary processes of integration.
More generally, if r be not a whole number,
                      _c_ rq--ddlj±f
                                           =                                 )

                                                T (0)     T(l -- n -- r)
riiwhich will be
not  aifnreg=ativJe,  finite when n is          a positive whole         number     and when 1     --  n   --     .,
and                   whole number :                                     number     in the series      2,  3.  .
                                                thus if n be any                                   1,
                      then

     d*0                    c                .    *   T   or     c       x~i or     c  *-t

                         r (-+)                               r(

^iam so on for ever :: consequently,                   c,
     rf*0 __                                       +7         + &c. in infinitum.

In a similar manner, we shall find                                                  + &c. in infinitum.

            <r*o = Ci* + Ci *+ +

The knowledge of these complementary arbitrary functions will be found of
great importance for the purpose of explaining some results of the general
differentiation of the same function under different forms which would other
wise be irreconcileable with each other.

   (3.) The differential coefficient will be zero, when n is not, and when n -- r

is, a negative whole number.
   Thus,

     d*_--- -- u, __                 v, -- -- u,                                __u, u :
                        dx*
                                          dx* d**                                        dm~*

and similarly in other cases.
I(4f.w) eThreeprdeisfefenrtenotoiablsyoCf
                                           oo are    not  necessarily    equal  to  oo, but may    be finite.
                                                     we   shall find
                                           T (0),

                         · Commentarii Petrop., vol. v. 1731.
214                            THIRD REPORT-1-- 1833.

value of T ( -|- ) = Vt, by the aid of the very remarkable ex

pression for n, which Wallis derived from his theory of inter-

rr^»(«>)«*
    d xr
        =CT(0).                T (1 -- r) = (-l)M.i.5 ..(r-l).r-r,

whenever r is a positive whole number.

Conversely also,
        '-·*-'<**-' = Er(I°i)>.«.. where £rj(gi})
                                                                     .

        _<*-» · *-'              rr(o(2)) ' ^'
          d x-«
        _d-» a-'
          d x-»                  rV(0) .«*.
                                    (3)

                    d x-'        r"
                                     (r)
the arbitrary complementary functions being omitted.
   (5.) The occurrence of infinite values of the  coefficient of differentiation will
generally be the indication of some essential     change of form in the transition

from the primitive function to its corresponding differential coefficients.
IThus, jtL. =E.w .*o = iog,+C;

this last result or value of ,-i-= . a0 being obtained by the ordinary process

of integration : and generally,

        *rd-x«--r1  = LM xr-i       +     c^z!    T+ TC(irj-rl-)i ^     &c

                        T(r)               V (r)
l)-r ...the first term of which is infinite, in all cases in which r is not a negative
whole number, in which case it becomes equal      to ( --  1.2          If    ( -- r) <·--',
the complementary arbitrary functions also                                  we suppose,
                                                  disappearing.

however, r to be a positive whole number, and if we replace ... ,,. · ** DV

its transcendental value already determined, we shall get
                                          , _, , Ci #-*
        d-r tt-l           *r-i t,                                   ,,

which may be replaced by

^.,-^{log.+ (-l).r(r).r(l-r) + c}+^J)+..,

which is in a form which is true for all values of r whatsoever, and which
coincides, for integral values of r, with the form determined by the ordinary
process of integration.
 x-_ rq-More generally,
                                            C.*r- ft.*--'
d-r
                                          x(r -- n + \)^ (r -- n)
· dx-r                     r)       I^ ^                                    ^,  * " "'
        T(l-- n + r)'

which is finite, whilst r is less than n ; and when r and n are whole numbers,

becomes = (-- l)r . --( ~T-- '- xr-*, omitting complementary functions.

                                             1 (n)
       REPORT ON CERTAIN BRANCHES OF ANALYSIS.                                                                                                         215

polations ; and subsequently, by a much more direct process,
which lead to the equation,
       r (vr)' T(vl
                             fr)' =         T      * (vwhen r > 0 < 1) :
                                        si.n

If, under the same circumstances, r be greater than n, the coefficient of dif

ferentiation becomes infinite, and its value, determined as above, becomes

    =                *r_"    +  l)      {l0B* + C}               + CFifrar=r-*3-1      + &C'

             TWT{r-n

"rwr^. + i) {tog« + (-i)To-- «+i>r(«-f> + c)
                                    Ciar-»-i
                             +                            + -·"
                                    flF=^
which is in a form adapted to all values of r.
    The cases which we have considered above are the only ones in which the
coefficient of differentiation will become infinite, in consequence of the intro
duction of log x in the expression of its value. We shall have occasion here
after to notice more particularly the meaning of infinite values of coefficients
as indications of a change in the constitution of the function into which they
are multiplied.
                                        ,      , ,.              Car-* ,
   (6.) If u = (o x + &)», then

           dru T (\ + n) or

jFor if v = a x + b, then    jd--v                    d* v  = 0;
                                    =s     a  and     -j--        and              therefore

    * u r (i + n)                             /dry , c«-t .

Thus if u = (* + l)3,we get

    -dx* l w                                  r (-*)** r (-*)**
               · (,+         !)*
             tl - j3^»           ++                       %+ Cl+&c.
                                                          x-   r
                                 2£                                    x*
                                        x*                                      -
                                             1, +
If we replace  + 1)« by i*                    j+x we shall get
               (x
                      Lfi.)c*                 £12)    *     +j.  £11)              J_
                 r                               (*)
       ^* («                      +.                                 (+)           **

                                           29         Ci

                                   r

                      r(-+)«*                 re.-*)**

It thus appears that the two results may be made to coincide with each

other, when           in the first of them developed, by the aid of the proper
if

             (x
               +

                    (x
                     +

                                      1

                        )i

                                                                           is
                                                                                                                                                    :
arbitrary functions.
The necessity of this introduction of arbitrary functions to restore the re
quired identity of the expressions deduced for the same differential coefficients,
presents itself also in the ordinary processes of the integral calculus thus,
u=
             1)', we find
216 THIRD REPORT -- 1883.

raLneagleynstd, reh,asfoslulocwceinegdedcloisneltyheininvtehsetigfaotoiotsnteposf          of this illustrious
                                                                                           methods by which

the values of this transcendent                     (r) may                      be calculated to             any
required degree of accuracy for                 all positive                                                  has
                                                                                 values of r, and

If we replace (* + l)8 by *s + 2 x + 1, we find
                  T Td-*u
                                   x*  +  x3    +      x*  +C*+C"
                  dx^-=r2

It is obvious that these two values of -3--r^ cannot be made identical,

without the aid of the proper arbitrary functions.
                                                                                                  dr u
=/(*)(7.) Let u = o" where e              : and let it be required to find ^-^-

-The general expression for -j-- , when r is a whole number, is generally

bexetreamsseiglynedc. ompIflictahteedi,netxhpoluicgahbletheexlparwessoiofnsforminatitohne  of its terms can  always
                                                                                           resulting series   be re

placed by their proper transcendents, the expression may be generalized for
any value of r.

If  dv   =p  and  i.f  t-PT-v*  =  c,  a constant quantity,                                then  djTr Tu = « (» -- I)
    t--
.... (n -- r+ 1) v"-rp'

_,,,(,,xJ1 + 1 (n-r + l) · p*^1.2. (n-r+1) (n-r+2)                                                    ^+            S
                                                                                                           )
               r  (+1 +»-nr) )         r \ T I.(rn(r----r+1)1)                                   c«-
             T(l
                                                                                                 ;/-

which is in a form adapted to any value of r.

   Iitf u =        '   and      r=       1      shall  find

             v/i +**                   -S-, we

A        1        _ 1/^ / 1, 1! 33 .-55                                                          3.5.7       o.r 1
    1
                                                                                                  2"*«
                                          2* Xs            2"1 x*

                  7+7 + &-

   Rational functions of x may be resolved into a series of fractions, whose
denominators are of the form (x + a)", and whose numerators are constant
quantities, whose rth differential coefficients may be found by the methods
given above. Irrational functions must be treated by general methods similar
to that followed in the example just given, which will be more or less com
plicated according to the greater or less number of successive simple differ
entials of the function beneath the radical sign, which are not equal to zero.
          REPORT ON CERTAIN BRANCHES OF ANALYSIS.                            217

given tables of its logarithmic values to twelve places of decimals,
with columns of         2o*rd;erasndofsdimiffielarrentcaebslesfohr a1v0e00beeeqnuaglivienn
                 three
tervals between  1 and
by Bessel and by others. We may therefore consider ourselves
to be in possession of its numerical values under all circum
stances, though we should not be justified in concluding from
thence that their explicit general symbolical forms are either
discoverable or that they are of such a nature as to be ex
                                            and signs of algebra.
                                                (r m) (r m),
pressible by the existing language
   The equation

   r - - - r -(r) = (r 1) (r g)
r(r fr, r(r)or
          -- m)' --     -.  --  1)          (r -- 2^)/ . .  -.  --    .,
                                                                    my
                        (r                                  (r
where m is a whole number, will explain the mode of passing
from the fundamental transcendents, when included between
r = 0 and 1, or between r = 1 and 2, to all the other derived
transcendents of their respective classes f. The most simple of

such classes of transcendents, are those which correspond to

                        (¥)= a/it,

which alone require for their determination the aid of no higher
                     circular arcs and logarithms. In all cases,
riftranscendents than  (r) as expressing the arithmetical value of

also, we consider
the corresponding transcendent, its general form would require
the introduction of the factor lr, considered as the recipient
of the multiple signs   of affection which are  proper for each dif
ferential coefficient,                          in its most general
                        if we use that term

sense.

In the note, p. 211, we have noticed the principal properties
of these fractional and general differential coefficients, partly
for the   purpose of establishing upon general                               the
basis of  a new and very interesting branch of                  principles   and

                                                                analysis J,

· Fonctions Elliptiques, torn. ii. p. 490.
a, r(|) r(A) A,tThu8,r(-L) =
                                    = ± v*,                         =^i

\2/ 1                   /V 2 1.3                            \2/ 1.3.5
V r, &c.
J The consideration of fractional and general indices of differentiat ion was
first suggested by Leibnitz, in many passages of his Commercium Epistolicum
with John Bernouilli, and elsewhere ; but the first definite notice of their

theory was given by Euler in the Petersburgh Commentaries for 1731 : they
have also been considered by Laplace and other writers, and particularly by
Fourier, in his great work, La Thiorie de la Propagation de la Chaleur. The
last of these illustrious authors has considered the general differential coeffi.
218                       THIRD REPORT-- 1833.

partly for the purpose of illustrating the principle of the per
manence of equivalent forms in one of the most remarkable
examples of its application. The investigations which we have
given have been confined to the case of algebraical functions,

cients of algebraical functions, through the medium of their conversion into
transcendental functions by means of the very remarkable formula,

     / J9 * = --2       /»+  CO                        /»+  co                        --  ·),
                                 (*)da                          (<*) d q cos
                              0                              0                g   (a
                  - -a1
                                                       co
which immediately gives us,
     J 9(.*)d*J-dx*
                -- --2  /*+ co                         /»+- coo               dr  cos g (* -- «) ;
                                                               <p(«)  d g -d-^r
                           CD
                                                       09

which can be determined,     therefore,            if  -j---  cos  q  (x  --  a)  can  be determined,

                                                       a xr
and the requisite definite integrations effected. If, indeed, we grant the prac
ticability of such a conversion of <p(«) in all cases, and if we suppose the
difficulties attending the consideration of the resulting series, which arise
from the peculiar signs, whether of discontinuity or otherwise, which they
may implicitly involve, to be removed, then we shall experience no embarrass
ment or difficulty whatever in the transition from integral to general indices
of differentiation.
   In the thirteenth volume of the Journal de I'Ecole Polytechniqne for 1832,
there are three memoirs by M. Joseph Liouville, all relating to general in
dices of differentiation, and one of them expressly devoted to the discussion
of their algebraical theory. The author defines the differential coefficient of

the order ft of the exponential function emx to be m1" e"", and consequently
f. ifmust be represented by 2 Am mP
2hmfthe ^«th differential coefficient of a series of such functions denoted by
                                                            ;t be granted that we can properly
define a general differential coefficient, antecedently to the exposition of any
general principles upon which its existence depends, then such a definition
ought to coincide with the necessary conclusions deduced by those principles
in their ordinary applications : but the question will at once present itself,
whether such a definition is dependent or not upon the definition of the simple
differential coefficient in this and in all other cases. In the first case it will be
a proposition, and not a definition, merely requiring the aid of the principle
of the permanence of equivalent forms for the purpose of giving at least an
                                        dP em*
hypothetical existence to , ,, for general, as well as for integral values

of ft. M. Liouville then supposes that all rational functions of x are ex
pressible by means of series of exponentials, and that they are consequently

reducible to the form 2 Am emx, and are thus brought under the operation of

his definition. Thus, if x be positive, we have,

                                               Co           '*,

and therefore.               * -J o

                             1

                        dxM
           REPORT ON CERTAIN BRANCHES Of ANALYSTS.                                         219

and have been chiefly directed to meet the difficulties connected
with the estimation of the values of the coefficient of differen
Iftiation in the case of fractional and general indices.
                                                                                           we

should extend those investigations to certain classes of tran-

-which is easily reducible to the form,
                        <*"4 (-1)/T(1 + ^)

an expression which we have analysed in the note on p. 211. This part of
M. Liouville's theory is evidently more or less included in M. Fourier's views,
which we have noticed above. The difficulties which attend the complete

developement of the formula                     -- for all values of ft, which the

principle of equivalent forms alone can reconcile, will best show how little

progress has been made when the pth differential coefficient        of             --  is  reduced
to such a form.
                                                                                    *

   M. Liouville adopts an opinion, which has been unfortunately sanctioned by
the authority of the great names of Poisson and Cauchy, that diverging series
should be banished altogether from analysis, as generally leading to false
results ; and he is consequently compelled to modify his formulae with refer
ence to those values of the symbols involved, upon which the divergency or
convergency of the series resulting from his operations depend. In one sense,
as we shall hereafter endeavour to show, such a practice may be justified ; but
if we adopt the principle of the permanence of equivalent forms, we may
safely conclude that the limitations of the formulae will be sufficiently ex
pressed by means of those critical values which will at once suggest and re
quire examination. The extreme multiplication of cases, which so remark
ably characterizes M. Liouville's researches, and many of the errors which he
has committed, may be principally attributed to his neglect of this important

principle.

  It is easily shown, if /3 be an indefinitely small quantity, that

                   * = 5-               , or e       !           ,
                                                (m + «)/3
                                   2/3

and that consequently any integral function A0 + A x . A,, xP, involving
integral and positive powers of x only, may be expressed by Am tml, where
                                        a

                                                    2

                                                                              -+-

                                                                         2.
m indefinitely small and conversely, also, Am emz may, under the same
circumstances, be always expressed by similar integral function of x. M. Liou
ville, by assuming particular form.
is                 a
      C                  ;
          is
                                                  '

                                        2/3

where         arbitrary, and indefinitely small, to represent/3     zero, and differen

tiating, according to his definition, gets

        dxi J^                                              ;
                                                                2
but evident that by altering the form of this expression for zero we might
it
   is

show that          was equal either to zero or to infinity       and that in the latter

              dx±
820                   THIRD REPORT-- 1833.

scendental functions, such as em*, sin m x, and cos m x, we
shall encounter no such difficulties, in as much as the differen
tials of those functions corresponding to indices which are ge
neral in form, though denoting integral numbers, are in a form

case the critical value infinity might be merely the indication of the existence

                                                                                                                                 i

of negative or fractional powers of x in the expression for                                      dx*  , which were

not expressible by any rational function of <&x under a finite form and in
volving indefinitely small indices only. And such, in fact, would be the re
sult of any attempt to differentiate this exponential expression for x or its
powers, with respect to fractional or negative indices. It has resulted from
this very rash generalization of M. Liouville that he has assigned as the ge
neral form of complementary arbitrary functions,

                            C + Ci x + Cs x* + C3 x* + &c.,
which is only true when the index of differentiation is a negative whole
number.

   Most of the rules which M. Liouville has given for the differentiation of
algebraical functions are erroneous, partly in consequence of his fundamental
error in the theory of complementary arbitrary functions, and partly in
consequence of his imperfect knowledge of the constitution of the formula

v --^r : thus, after deducing the formula

          (ax + b)n =  1 . 2 ...(»-- 1)                           (ax + b)" + r'
           Uxr

which is only true when n is a whole number, he says that no difficulty pre
sents itself in its treatment, whilst n + r is > 0, but that T (b
comes infinite, when                                                                                  it             be

                                                                                                          -f-
                                                                                                                 p)
      b                                                      0, in which case he says that must be

         -fr-

                   is
                                   an

                                    +
                                   ;r

                                                         ·<
transformed into an expression containing finite quantities only, by the aid
of complementary functions whilst, in reality,
                                                                  T                                   only infinite
                                                                       («
                                                                          +
                                                                             r)
                                                                                    is

when      zero or negative whole number, and the forms of the com
_Jplementary functions, such as he has assigned to them, are not competent to

effect the conversion required. In consequence of this and other mistakes,
in connexion with the important case dr (ax                  +    b)n, nearly all his conclu-

                                                             dUr

sions with respect to the general differentials of rational functions, by means
of their resolution into partial fractions, are nearly or altogether erroneous.
    The general differential coefficients of sines and cosines follow immediately
from those of exponentials, and present few difficulties upon any view of their
theory. In looking over, however, M. Liouville's researches upon this sub
ject, observe one remarkable example of the abuse of the first principles of
I

        :

            if

                                                     41
                                                                  1

                                                                                  .
                                                                                         4

                                                                                              3

                                                                                    ,
reasoning in algebra. There are two values of                                                    one positive and

                                                                  dx*

the other negative, considered apart from the sign of m, whether positive or

negative  but we put cos m x = -- cos m x + -- cos m x, we get
          «d" cos
                       d' cos m x                            3. <P cos m x

          dx> dx*                                                 dx*
              REPORT ON CERTAIN BRANCHES OF ANALYSIS.                                                        221

which is adapted to the immediate                 application  of the general
principle in question.

  Thus, if u = emx, we get

           ax--- = me "*, -aj--x%- = m* em", . . . -aj--xr- = mr em',
quantity whatsoever.

Kdu \ ,.« = sin mx, -=-
when r is a whole number, and therefore, also, when r is any

                                = to si.n  /v     +   mx I,    -dj2--u9 = m2                                 sin

                                           (
                                             -^-

j --(* + to ar), . . . . --- = mr sin ( -5 \- mx\ when r is a whole

number, and therefore generally.                  In a similar manner if

u  = cos      m x, or rather « =         cos  todo(u1b) lex,sig(inntroofdumcixn,g   1* as
a  factor     in order to express        the
                                                                                   if de
termined from the value of its cosine,) then we shall find

-- \'-A7t--,.
           =  (m */ l)r  cos   1 T IF  h (to      1)  x  li  whatever  be the
                              < -35
                                                         >,

Ifvalue of r.          u = e" * cos m x, we get, by very obvious re

ductions,         making e = .         , and 0 = cos         1 --,
                              '«* + to2
                       fd-jr--u = en* cos (mx + n               p

It       not necessary to mention the process to be followed in ob-x*
                                  + if
    if is                                it «*

                                               a is

                                                **

                                                                              6).
                                                                                  d*
                                                                                                          a
and we combine arbitrarily the double values of the two parts of the second

--member of this equation, we shall get four values of C08 -- -, instead of

                                                               dx*
Atwo and, in similar manner, we should resolve cos m x into any number
   ;
                    a

Ifof parts, we should get double the number of values of ft ^OH til .7-                                      this

principle of arbitrary combinations of algebraical values derived from eom-
mon operation was admitted, we must consider Vx as having two values,

and its equivalent series

                                         + + &c.

as having an infinite number. But          quite obvious that those expressions
which involve implicitly or explicitly multiple sign must continue to be
estimated with respect to the same value of this sign, however often the reci
pient of the multiple sign may be repeated in any derived series or expression.
The case          different in those cases where the several terms exist indepen
              is

dently of any explicit or implied process of derivation.
222                      THIRD REPORT-- 1833.

taining  the general differential  coefficients of other expressions,
such as  (cos x)n, cos m x x cos   n x, &c, which present no kind
of difficulty. In all such cases the complementary arbitrary
functions will be supplied precisely in the same manner as for
the corresponding differential coefficients of algebraical func

tions.
    The transition from the consideration of integral to that of
fractional and general indices of differentiation is somewhat
startling when first presented to our view, in consequence of
our losing sight altogether of the principles which have been
employed in the derivation of differential coefficients whose in
dices are whole numbers : but a similar difficulty will attend
the transition, in every case, from arithmetical to general values
of symbols, through the medium of the principle of the perma
nence of equivalent forms, though habit and in some cases im
perfect views of its theory, may have made it familiar to the
...mind. We can form distinct conceptions of m . m, in . m .m,
in . m . m  . (r), where m is a whole number repeated twice,
thrice, or r times, when r is also a whole number ; and we
can readily pass from such expressions to their defined or as
                                         in a

                                         1.2,
1.2.3,... ...dsuilmy epdaessquifvroamlentsthemf'a, cmt3o, r. i.a.lsm*T:
                                               similar  manner we can rea
                                                                         r, to
                                                             1.2
r(ltheir assumed equivalents r(3), r(4), . . .          + r), as long as r
is      whole number.    The   transition from           T            r) when
     a  a whole number,                          mr and   r  (1   +   general
r   is                     to  mrand T (1 +     r) when
                                                              is   a

symbol, is made by the principle of the equivalent forms ; but by
no effort of mind can we connect the first conclusion in each case
with the last, without the aid of the intermediate formula, involv

ing symbols which are general in form though specific in value ;
and in no instance can we interpret the ultimate form, for
values of the symbols which are not included in the first, by
the aid of the definitions or assumptions which are employed
in the establishment of the primary form. In all such cases
the interpretation of the ultimate form, when such an interpre

tation is discoverable, must be governed and determined by a
reference to those general properties of it which are inde
pendent of the specific values of the symbols.

  r· Legendre has named the function (1 + r) = 1 . 2 . . . r, the function

gamma. Kramp, who has written largely upon its properties, gave it, in his
Analyse des Refractions Astronomiques, the name of faculti numerique ; but in his
subsequent memoirs upon it in the earlier volumes of the Annates des Ma-
thematiquea of Gergonne he has
Arbagost proposed, and which    adopted  the name of factorial function, which
                                         it expedient to retain, as recalling to
                                I think
mind the continued product which suggests this creature of algebraical lan

guage.                                                                      ,
           HEPOKT ON CERTAIN BRANCHES OF ANALYSIS.                               223

The law of derivation of the terms in Taylor's series,

     dj'u, =       du   ,                            d*u
           u  +         h     +  d*u h*           +              h3   +  0
                   TZ'                                                   &c>>
                                 d*>-TJ,                    TT2-3

is the same as in the more general series

     dru'     ~--  dru  4T,.  dr+1u      -  h      dr+au    h*   _+L  f,,ire '-
     da?           dxr        dxr*1            +_l_ dxr+*'
                                            1               1.2

and if we possess the law of derivation of -z-- and of -7--r, we

can fi nd all the terms of both these series, whatever be the
value of r. The first of these terms must be determined through
the ordinary definitions of the differential calculus ; the second
must be determined in form by the same principles, and gene
ralized through the medium of the principle of equivalent
forms. Both these processes are indispensably necessary for

the  determination      of    dT u    :  but it is the  second   of them  which

                              d7x--r

altogether separates the interpretation of -07/ --xp from that of -aj--x,
               dru
or rather  of          when      r is    a whole  number,   unless    in the par
               -7-- r

ticular cases in which the symbols in both are identical in

value.

   There are two distinct processes in algebra, the direct and
the inverse, presenting generally very different degrees of dif
ficulty. In the first case, we proceed from defined operations,
and by various processes of demonstrative reasoning we arrive
at results which are general in form though particular in value,
and which are subsequently generalized in value likewise : in
the second, we commence from the general result, and we are
either required to discover from its form and composition some

equivalent result, or, if defined operations have produced to

discover the primitive quantity from which those operations

have commenced. Of all these processes we have already given

examples, and nearly the whole business of analysis will consist
in their discussion and developement, under the infinitely varied
forms in which they will present themselves.

   The disappearance of undulating and of determinate func
tions with arbitrary constants, upon the introduction of inte
gral or other specific values of certain symbols involved, one
of the chief sources of error in effecting transitions to equiva-
*

                              *
                                                                                      is it,
      The theory of discontinuous functions and of the signs of discontinuity
will show many others.
2Z4f                   THIRD REPORT 1833.

lent forms, whether the process followed be direct or inverse.
Many examples of the first kind may be found in the researches
of Poinsot respecting certain trigonometrical series, which
will be noticed hereafter, and which had been hastily gene

ralized by Euler and Lagrange ; and a remarkable example of

the latter has already been pointed out, in the disappearance
of the functions with arbitrary constants in the transition from
u to d-rr--u-, when r becomes a whole positive number. The gene

ral discussion of such cases, however, would lead me to an
examination of the theory of the introduction of determinate
and arbitrary functions in the most difficult processes of the
integral calculus and of the calculus of functions, which would
Icarry me far beyond the proper limits and object of this Re
port.  have merely thought it necessary to notice them in
this place for the purpose of showing the extreme caution
which must be used in the generalization of equivalent results
by means of the application of the principle of the permanence
of equivalent forms*.
The preceding view of the principles of algebra would not
only make the use and form of derivative signs, of whatever
kind they may be, to be the necessary results of the same ge
neral principle, but would also show that the interpretation of
Itheir meaning would not precede but follow the examination of

the circumstances attending their introduction. consider it
to be extremely important to attend to this order of succession
between results and their interpretation, when those results

belong to symbolical and not to arithmetical algebra, in as much
as the neglect of it has been the occasion of much of the con
Ifusion and inconsistency which prevail in the various theories
which have been given of algebraical signs.  speak of deri

    · Euler, in the Petersburgh Actt for 1774, has denied the universality of
this principle, and has adduced as an example of its failure the very remark

able series

--1T--=oT» + (1 -- a"i)-=(1l--* a"-") + (1 -- a") (1 --Ta="-*1) (1 -- a*-*) + &c.,

which is equal to m, when misa whole number, but which is apparently not

equal to m, for other values of m, unless at the same time a== 1 : the occur
rence, however, of zero as a factor of the (m + l)"1 and following terms in
the first case, and the reduction of every term to the form -- in the second,

would form the proper indications of a change in the constitution of the equi
valent function corresponding to these values of m and a, of which many ex
amples will be given in the text.
       REPORT ON CERTAIN BRANCHES OF ANALYSIS.                                                                                           225

native signs as distinguished from those primitive signs of ope
ration which are used in arithmetical algebra ; but such signs,
though accurately defined and limited in their use in one sci
ence, will cease to be so in the other, their meaning being de
pendent in symbolical algebra, in common with all other signs
which are used in upon the symbolical conditions which they
I
                             it,

                                                        of
are required to satisfy.
will consider, in the first place, signs affection, which are

those symbolical quantities which do not affect the magnitudes,
though they do affect the specific nature, of the quantities into
which they are incorporated.
                                                   + 1) ,                                   1) 1,when used independ
   Of this kind are the signs + and --                                                             when considered as

ently; or their equivalents + and --
                          r2
symbolical factors the signs (+ 1)" and (-- 1)", or their sym
                               i (2 n 1
bolical equivalents
            +

                   ;
cos rm */ --\ sin                      v and cos r +                                                                               it +
2                                                                                                    (2

                      \/---i sin         e /·  +                                                 nit;      1
                                                                                                                 1
            or 2rnxV~\ and (2                v                                                     nrV--          )1
            e
                                                t                                                                     n

                                                                                                                                  1
   The affections symbolized by the signs + and -- admit
of very general interpretation consistently with the symbolical
conditions which they are required to satisfy, and particularly
so in geometry and has been usual, in consequence of
            :

                      it

the great facility of such interpretations, to consider all quan
tities affected by them (which
that is, as quantities possessing      are not abstract) as                                                possible,
                                       in all cases relations                                              of exist

ence which are expressible by those signs.                                                             It  should be kept

in mind, however, that such interpretations are in no respect
distinguished from those of other algebraical signs, except in
the extent and clearness with which their conditions are sym

bolized in the nature of things.
The other signs of affection, different from + and --
Vwhich are                                                                                                 /3 1
          included in     (1)" and                                                        are expressible
by cos         -- sin     or by a                                                          ,where a and                       /3* 1,
                                    (--       1)",                                                         generally
                                                                                                           may have
                                             V--
1.
        6

        +

                               1
                                          1 0,

                                                ,1 +

                                                                         /3
                                                                                         1
any values between and -- zero included, and where aa +
= To all quantities, whether abstract or concrete, expressed
by symbols affected by such signs, the common term impossible
has been applied, in contradistinction to those possible magni
tudes which are affected by the signs and -- only.

   If, indeed, the affections symbolized by the signs included
                      0

                         +

                           V

                                             1
                                                           9,

                                                       +
under the form cos        -- sin admitted in no case of an in

terpretation which was consistent with their symbolical condi                                                                        +
tions, then the term impossible would be correctly applied to
quantities affected by them but in as much as the signs and
                          :
1833.
                                «
                                          THIRD REPORT -- 18S3.

-- , when used independently, and the sign cos 9 + »/ -- 1 sin 0,

when taken in its most enlarged sense, equally originate in the
generalization of the operations of algebra, and are equally in
dependent of any previous definitions of the meaning and extent
of such operations, they are also equally the object of inter

pretation, and are in this respect no otherwise distinguished
from each other than by the greater or less facility with which
it
        can be        eaxpapmliepdlesto*  them.
        Many                                        consistent                interpretation may be
                                          of their

pointed out in geometry as well as in other sciences : thus, if
+ a and -- a denote two equal lines whose directions are op

posite to each other, then (cos 9 + */ -- 1 sin 9) a may denote
an equal line, making an angle 9 with the line denoted by + a;
and consequently a */ -- 1 will denote a line which is perpen
dicular to + a. This interpretation admits of very extensive
application, and is the foundation of many important conse
quences in the application of algebra to geometry.

   The signs of operation + and -- may be immediately inter
preted by the terms addition and subtraction, when applied to
unaffected symbols denoting magnitudes of the same kind : if

they are applied to symbols affected with the sign -- , these
signs, and the terms used to interpret them, become convertible.
Thus a + (-- b) = a -- b, and a                                 --aanndd(--b--:bb)bu,=tisiafetq+hueiyvba;aleronert
gebraical sum and difference of a                                                                                    the al
algebraical difference and sum of a                                                                                   to the

                                                                                                                    applied

to lines denoted by symbols affected by the signs cos 9 + v' -- 1.
sin 9, and cos 9' + */ -- 1 sin the results will no longer de
note the arithmetical (or geometrical)          1                                  panodsitdioifnfereonfcetheofdtihae
lines in question, but the magnitude                                    sum
                                                 + if 9*,               and
gonals of the parallelogram constructed upon them, or upon

lines which are equal and parallel to                                   e             c

them. Thus, we denote the lineb if

A by a, and the line A at right
        B                                 1,
                   it
                                            C
angles to by */ -- and we

complete the parallelograms ABDC
and ABC E, then a + */ ^\ will
                                          b

denote the diagonal A D, and a --                                       b  .), s/  -- will denote the
                                                                                   \

other diagonal          9), B             or the equal and parallel line A E.
                            9 C,
        It            easily shown that a                       9} \ b*/~^\ = n/ia* + b*) (cos*

+ »/ --      is         - -sin                  v= ~ COS"*              ffl and a --                                4/ --
as 4/(0*          *+ 1        (where         9                rc                         b                                 1

                        is) {cos -- 4/              sin               ;+      follows, therefore, that

                                                                        it 0

                      Peacock's Algebra, chap. xii. Art. 437, 447, 448,449.
     REPORT ON CERTAIN BRANCHES OF ANALYSIS.                     227

Va + b </ -- 1 and a -- b -- 1 may be considered as repre
senting respectively a single line, equal in magnitude to
</(«* + bj *, and affected by the sign cos 0 + v' -- 1 sin 0 in
Vone case, and by the sign cos 9 -- -- 1 sin 0 in the other ; or
as denoting the same lines through the medium of the opera
tions denoted in the one case by +, and in the other by -- ,
upon the two lines at right angles to each other, which are de

noted by a and b V --\.
We have spoken of the signs of operation + and -- , as di
stinguished from the same signs when used as signs of affection,

V Vand we have also denominated a + b -- 1, and a -- b -- 1,
the sum and difference of a and Vb -- 1, though they can no

longer be considered to be so in the arithmetical or geometrical
sense of those terms ; but it is convenient to explain the mean
ing of the same sign by the same term, though they may be
used in a sense which is not only very remote from, but even

ftotally opposed to , their primitive signification ; and such a

licence in the use both of signs and of phrases is a necessary
consequence of making their interpretation dependent, not upon
previous and rigorous definitions as is the case in arithmetical
algebra, but upon a combined consideration of their symbolical
conditions, and the specific nature of the quantities represented
by the symbols. It is this necessity of considering all the re
sults of symbolical algebra as admitting of interpretation sub
sequently to their formation, and not in consequence of any
previous definitions, which places all those results in the same
relation to the whole, as being        equally the creations of
same general principle : and it is     this circumstance which    the

                                                                 jus

  V· The arithmetical quantity //(a2 + i1) has heen called the modulus of

a + 6 -- 1 by Cauchy, in his Court a" Analyse, and elsewhere. It is the single
unaffected magnitude which is included in the affected magnitude a + b */-- 1 :

conversely the affected magnitude (cos 6 + -%/-- 1 sin 6) */& + b" is reducible
                                                           -, and therefore
to the equivalent quantity a + b */-- 1, if cos 6 = ---=-

sin 4 = Jo? + &2          -- b,        + ( -- 6),
  t  The sum of           The    or a              is identical with the difference of a
     b, or with a  a and         term  operation,   also, which is applied generally to
and                -- b.

the fact of the transition from the component members of an expression to the
final symbolical result, will only admit of interpretation when the nature of the
process which it designates can be described and conceived. In all other cases
we must regard the final result alone. Thus, if a and b denote lines, we can
readily conceive the process by which we form the results a + b and a -- 6, at
least when a is greater than b. But when we interpret a -f- b a/ -- 1 to mean a
determinate single line with a determinate position, we are incapable of con
q2ceiving any process or operation through the medium of which it is obtained.
228                  THIRD REPORT-- 183S.

tines the assertion, which we have made above, that quantities
or their symbols affected by the signs + , -- , or cos 0 + "/ --\-
sin 6, are only distinguished from each other by the greater or
less facility of their interpretation.
    The geometrical interpretation of the sign »/ -- 1, when

applied to symbols denoting lines, though more than once
suggested by other authors, was first formally maintained by
M. Bue-e in a paper in the Philosophical Transactions for 1806*,
which contains many original, though very imperfectly deve
loped views upon the meaning and application of algebraical
signs. In the course of the same year a small pamphlet was pub
lished at Paris by M. Argand, entitled Essai sur une Maniere
de representer les Quantites Imaginaires, dans les Construc
tions G^ome'triques, written apparently without any knowledge

fof M. Buee's paper. In this memoir M. Argand arrives at this

proposition, That the algebraical sum of two lines %, estimated
both according to magnitude and direction, would be the dia
gonal of the parallelogram which might be constructed upon
them, considered both with respect to direction and magnitude,
which is, in fact, the capital conclusion of this theory. This
memoir of M. Argand seems, however, to have excited very
little attention ; and his views, which were chiefly founded upon
analogy, were too little connected with, or rather dependent
upon, the great fundamental principles of algebra, to entitle

his conclusions to be received at once into the great class

of admitted or demonstrated truths. It would appear that
M. Argand had consulted Legendre upon the subject of his me
moir, and that a favourable mention of its contents was made

by  Mth.atJ.greFa.t   analyst in   a  letter which he               wrote  to the brother
                     Francais,    a   mathematician                        inconsiderable
of                                                                  of no
eminence. It was the inspection of this letter, upon the death
of his brother, which induced M. Francais to consider this
subject, and he published, in the fourth volume of Gergonne's
Annales des Mathematiques for 1813, a very curious memoir
I * it
      it, it,

                                                                 a

                                                   f
upon containing views more extensive, and more completely
developed than those of M. Argand, though generally agreeing
with them in their character, and in the conclusions deduced
from them. This publication led to second memoir upon the
same theory from M. Argand, and to several observations
upon  in the same Journal, from MM. Servois, Francais,

and Gergonne, in which some of the most prominent objections

to were proposed, and partly, though very imperfectly, an

      This paper was read in 1805.                                  !·" *omme dirigee.
      Lignes dirigfrs.
REPORT ON CERTAIN BRANCHES OF ANALYSIS.                                  229

swered. No further notice appears to have been taken of these
researches before the year 1828, when Mr. Warren's treatise on
                                                of the square  roots of negative
qthueangtietioems e*triwcaals  representation  this work Mr.   Warren proposes

                               published. In
to give a geometrical representation to every species of quan
tity ; and after premising definitions of addition, subtraction,
multiplication and division, involution and evolution, which are
conformable to the more enlarged sense which interpretation
would assign to those operations when applied to lines repre
sented in position as well as in magnitude ; and after showing
in great detail the coincidence of the symbolical results obtained
from such definitions with the ordinary results of arithmetical
aonfdthseymdbifofelicreanl t
                              algebra, he   proceeds to  determine the   meaning
                                symbolical               and -- 1, when   applied
                                             roots of 1

to symbols denoting lines, under almost every possible circum
stance. The course which Mr. Warren has followed leads

almost necessarily to very embarrassing details, and perhaps,
also, to the neglect of such comprehensive propositions as can
only derive their authority from principles which make all the
results of algebra which are general in form independent of the
specific values and representation of the symbols : but at the
same time it must be allowed that his conclusions, when viewed

in connexion with his definitions, were demonstrably true ; a
character which could not be given to similar conclusions when
they were attempted to be derived by the mere aid of the arith
metical definitions of the fundamental operations of algebra.

   This objection to the course pursued by Mr. Warren will
more or less apply to all attempts which are made to make the
previous interpretations of algebra govern the symbolical con
clusions ; for though it is always possible to assign a meaning
to algebraical operations, and to pursue the consequences of

that meaning to their necessary conclusions, yet if the laws of
combination which lead to such conclusions are expressed
through the medium of general signs and symbols, they will

cease, when once formed, to convey the necessary limitations

of meaning which the definitions impose upon them. It is for
this reason that we must in all cases consider the laws of com
bination of general symbols as being arbitrary and independent
in whatever manner suggested, and that we must make our in
terpretations of the results obtained conformable to those laws,

and not the laws to the interpretations : it is for the same reason,
likewise, that our interpretations will not be necessary, though

   A· Treatise on the Geometrical Representation of the Square Roots of Ne

gative Quantities, by the Rev. John Warren, M.A., Fellow and Tutor of Jesus
College Cambridge. 1828.
230        THIRD REPORT-- 1833.

governed    by necessary laws, except so  far as those interpreta
tions are  dependent upon each other.
                                          Thus, if a be taken to
represent a line in magnitude, it is not necessary that (cos 9
+ ·/ -- 1 sin 0) a should represent a line equal in length to the one
represented by a, and also making an angle 0 with the line re
\/presented by a ; but if (cos 0 +  -- 1 sin 0) a, may, consistently
with the symbolical conditions,                          such  a line, without
any restriction in the value of 0,  rtehperne,seinf tit  does  represent such

a line for one value of 0, it must represent such a line for every
value of 0 included in the formula. It is only in such a sense

that interpretations can be said in any case to have a necessary

and inevitable existence.
It is this confusion of necessary and contingent truth which
has occasioned much of the difficulty which has attended the
theories of the interpretation of algebraical signs. It has been
supposed that a meaning could be transmitted through a suc
cession of merely symbolical operations, and that there would
exist at the conclusion an equally necessary connexion between
the primitive definition and the ultimate interpretation, as be
tween the final symbolical result and the laws which govern it.
So long as the definitions both of the meaning of the symbols
and of the operations to which they are required to be subject
are sufficient to deduce the results, those results will have a

necessary interpretation which will be dependent upon a joint
consideration of all those conditions ; but whenever an operation
is required to be performed under circumstances which do not
allow it to be strictly defined or interpreted, the chain of con
nexion is broken, and the interpretation of the result will be
no longer traceable through its successive steps. This must
take place whenever negative or other affected quantities are
introduced, and whenever operations are to be performed,
either with them, or upon them, even though such quantities
and signs should altogether disappear from the final result.
This principle of interpretation being once established, we
must equally consider -- 1, */ -- 1, cos 9 + */ -- 1 sin 0, as signs
of impossibility, in those cases in which no consistent meaning
can be assigned to the quantities which are affected by them,
and in those cases only : and it must be kept in mind that the
impossibility which may or may not be thus indicated, has re

ference to the interpretation only, and not to the symbolical
result, considered as an equivalent form: for all symbolical
results must be considered as equally possible which the signs
and symbols of algebra, whether admitting of interpretation or
not, are competent to express. But there will be found to be
many species of impossibility which will present themselves in
          REPORT ON CERTAIN BRANCHES OF ANALYSIS.                                                   281

considering the relations of formulae with a view to their equi
valence, and also under other circumstances, which will be in
dicated by such means as will destroy all traces of the equiva
lence which would otherwise exist.

   The capacity, therefore, possessed by the signs of affection

Vinvolving -- 1 of admitting geometrical or other interpreta

tions under certain circumstances, though it adds greatly to
our power of bringing geometry and other sciences under the
dominion of algebra, does not in any respect affect the general

theory of their introduction or of their relation to other signs :

for, in the first place, it is not an essential or necessary pro
perty of such signs ; and in the second place, it in no respect
affects the form or equivalence of symbolical results, though it

does affect both the extent and mode of their application. It

would be a serious mistake, therefore, to suppose that such inci
dental properties of quantities affected by such signs constituted
their real essence, though such a mistake has been generally

made by those who have proposed this theory of interpretation,
and has been made the foundation of a charge against them by
others, who have criticised and disputed its correctness*.

   · This charge   is made by               Mr.   1D8a3v1i,es"  Gilbert  in a very ingenious        paper in
the Philosophical  Transactions              for                On the   Nature of Negative         and Im

possible  iQdeuaalntqituiaens.t"itiesH,--e  says that those mathematicians take an incorrect
                                            meisssteankcineg, --, iwn hfoacts,upinpocsideentthaelm  properties for those
view of                                                                                              to be principles of

which constitute their real

perpendicularity, because they may in some cases indicate extension at right
angles to the directions indicated by the correlative signs + and -- ; for with
an equal degree of propriety might the actually existing square root of a quan
tity be taken as the principle of obliquity, in as much as in certain cases it
indicates the hypothenuse of a right-angled triangle. In reply to this last
observation, it may be observed, that I am not aware that in any case the

sign »/ -- \ has had such an interpretation given to it.
   It is quite impossible for me to give an abridged, and at the same time a fair
view of Mr. Davies Gilbert's theory, within a compass much smaller than the
contents of his memoir. But I might venture to say that his proof of the rule
of signs rests upon some properties of ratios or proportions which no arith
metical or geometrical view of their theory would enable us to deduce. In con

sidering, also, imaginary quantities as creations of an arbitrary definition, en
dowed with properties at the pleasure of him who defines them, he ascribes to
J--\"them the same character as to all other symbols and operations of algebra ;
but in saying that quantities affected by the sign                                                  possess a potential
existence only, but that they are ready to start into energy whenever that sign
is removed," he appears to me to assert nothing more than that symbols are

impossible or not, according as they are affected by the sign */ -- 1 or not.

Again, in examining the relation of the terms of the equation

x + jx^Ti = (y + Vf^)" = y" + »y"-1 Vyr=-i
232 THIRD HEPORT -- 1833.

   Signs of transition are those signs which indicate a change
in the nature or form of a function, when considered in the
whole course of its passage through its different states of ex
istence. Such signs, if they may be so designated, are gene
rally zero and infinity.

   Zero and infinity are negative terms, and if applied to desig-

he denies the correctness of the reasoning by which it is inferred that the
second term of the first, and the even terms of the second members of this

equation are equal to one another (when x is less than 1), because they are
the only terms which are homogeneous to each other, in as much as we thus
ascribe real properties to ideal quantities ; and he endeavours to make this
equality depend upon an assumed arbitrary relation between x and y, though

it is obvious that if y = cos 6, we shall find x = cos n 6, and that, therefore,
this relation is determinate, and not arbitrary. A little further examination
of this conclusion would show that it did not depend upon any assumed
homogeneity of the parts of the members of this equation to each other, but
upon the double sign of the radical quantity which is involved upon both

sides.
   In arithmetical algebra, where no signs of affection are employed or recog
nised, both negative and imaginary quantities become the limits of operations ;
and when this science is modified by the introduction of the independent
signs + and -- and the rule for their incorporation, the occurrence of the
square roots of negative quantities, by presenting an apparent violation of the
rule of the signs, becomes a new limit to the application of this new form of
the science. The same algebraists who have acquiesced in the propriety of
making the first transition in consequence of the facility of assigning a meaning
to negative quantities, at the same time that they retained the definitions and
principles of the first science, were startled and embarrassed when they came
to the second j for it was very clear that no attempt could be made to recon
cile the existence and use of such quantities, consistently with the main
tenance of that demonstrative character in our reasonings which exists in
geometry and arithmetic, where the mind readily comprehends the nature of
the quantities employed, and of the operations performed upon them. The
proper conclusion in such a case would be that the operations performed, as
well as the quantities employed, were symbolical, and that the results, though
                              by the primitive definitions,
they might  be   suggested  conclusions had been obtained    were    not dependent
upon them.        no real                                      by
             If                                                    the aid of such

merely symbolical quantities, they would probably have continued to be re
garded as algebraical monsters, whose reduction under the laws of a regular

system was not merely unnecessary, but altogether impracticable. But it was
soon found that many useful theories were dependent upon them ; that any
attempt to guard against their introduction in the course of the progress of
our operations with symbols would not merely produce the most embarrassing
limitations, when such limitations were discoverable, but that they would
present themselves in the expression of real quantities, and would furnish at
the same time the only means by which such quantities could be expressed.
A memorable example of their occurrence under such circumstances presents
itself in what has been called the irreducible case of cubic equations.

   In the Philosophical Transactions for 1778 there is a paper by Mr. Playfair
on the arithmetic of impossible quantities, in which the definable nature of

algebraical operations is asserted in the most express terms, and in which
the truth of conclusions deduced by the aid of imaginary symbols is made to
depend upon the analogy which exists between certain geometrical properties
             REPORT ON CERTAIN BRANCHES OF ANALYSIS.                233

nate states of quantity, are equally inconceivable. We are ac
customed, however, to speak of quantities as infinitely great
and infinitely small, as distinguished from finite quantities,
whether great or small, and to represent them by the symbols
oo and 0. It is this practice of designating such inconceivable
states of quantity by symbols, which brings them, in some de

of the circle and the rectangular hyperbola. It is well known that the circle
V(land rectangular hyperbola are included in the same equation y =  -- **),
if we suppose x to have

any value    between -+- oo
and -- oo :  let a circle be

described with centre C
and radius C A = 1, and

upon the production of

this radius,, let a rectan

gular hyperbola be de
scribed whose semiaxis is

1, in a plane at right an
igles to that of the circle :

if denote the angle A C P,
then the circular cosine and sine (C M and P M) are expressed by

             2                          and                =^

                                                    2 a/-1

respectively ; whilst the hyperbolic cosine and sine (to adopt the terms pro

posed by Lambert) corresponding to the angle 6 a/-- 1 (in a plane at right
angles to the former) are expressed by
- (--/-)' -- Sf----2
             V-and          1                °r by  2-- "d

itiafhnadttheh(yhypybp.e.siccnooesnisn6ied=)e*re----d
             as determined               by the following conditions; namely,
                                    =   1, and that hyp. cos = hyp. cos -- 8,
             h(yhpy.p.sinsiene--)*      A comparison of these processes in the
                                    8.

circle and hyperbola would show, says Mr. Playfair, that investigations which
are conducted by real symbols, and therefore by real operations, in the hy

perbola, would present analogous imaginary symbols, and therefore analogous
imaginary operations in the circle, and conversely ; and that the same species
of analogy which connects the geometrical properties of the circle and hyper
bola, connects the conclusions, of the same symbolical forms, when conducted

by real and imaginary symbols.
   This attempt to convert an extremely limited into a very general analogy,

and to make the conclusions of symbolical algebra dependent upon an insu
lated case of geometrical interpretation, would certainly not justify us in
drawing any general conclusions from processes involving imaginary symbols,
unless they could be confirmed by other considerations. The late Professor
Woodhouse, who was a very acute and able scrutinizer of the logic of ana
lysis, has criticised this principle of Mr. Playfair with just severity, in a paper

in the Philosophical Transactions for 1802, "On the necessary truth of certain
conclusions obtained by means of imaginary expressions." The view which he

has taken of algebraical equivalence, in cases where the connexion between
the expressions which were treated as equivalent could not be shown to be
the result of a defined operation, makes a very near approach to the principle
234 THIRD REPORT -- 1833.

gree, under the ordinary rules of algebra, and which compels us
to consider different orders both of infinities and of zeros, though
when they are considered without reference to their symbo
lical connexion, they are necessarily denoted by the same sim
ple symbols oo and 0 : thus there is a necessary symbolical di
stinction between (»)«, oo and (oo)", and between (0)4, 0 and
(0) ; though when considered absolutely as denoting infinity
in one case and zero in the other, they are equally designated

by the simple symbols oo and 0 respectively.

   Though the fundamental properties of 0 and oo , considered
as the representatives of zero and infinity, are suggested by the
ordinary interpretation of those terms, yet their complete in
terpretation, like that of other signs, must be founded upon the

of the permanence of equivalent forms : thus, supposing, when                              x is  a real
quantity, we can show that

                     **  =  l  +  *+                 x*         +      x9  + &c-;

                                                   TT2             1T2T3

but that we cannot show in a similar or any other manner that

then the equivalence     in the latter case is assumed,                    fby considering

             symbol for the series of terms
.V-l ____-_.as the abridged
             l+ ,                                  ' x*            x' *f-- 1         &c.;
                                                                                  +

in other words, the form which is proved to be true for values of the symbols
which are general in form, though particular in value, is assumed to be true
in all other cases.
It is true that such a generalization could not be considered as legitimate,
without much preparatory theory and without considerable modifications of
our views respecting nearly all the fundamental operations and signs of arith
metical algebra ; but I refer with pleasure to this incidental testimony to the
truth and universality of this important law, from an author whose careful
and bold examination of the first principles of analytical calculation entitle
his opinion to the greatest consideration.
Mr. Gompertz published, in 1817 and 1818, two tracts on the Principles and

Application of Imaginary Quantities, containing many ingenious and novel
views both upon the correctness of the conclusions obtained by means of ima
ginary quantities and also upon their geometrical interpretation. The first
of these                                                             establishment of the following
          :  tr"acTtshatiswhperirnecvipear lltyhe  devoted to   the  imaginary expressions can be
position                                             operation   by
used, the propriety may be explained from the capability of one arbitrary
quantity or more being introduced into the expressions which are imaginary
previously to the said arbitrary quantity or quantities being introduced, so
as to render them real, without altering the truth they are meant to express ;
and that, in consequence, the operation will proceed on real quantity, the
introduced arbitrary quantity or quantities necessary to render the first steps
of the reasoning arguments on real quantity, vanishing at the conclusion;
            REPORT ON CERTAIN BRANCHES OF ANALYSIS.              235

consideration of all the circumstances under which they pre
sent themselves in symbolical results. In order, therefore, to
determine some of the principles upon which those interpreta
tions must be made, it will be proper to examine some of the
more remarkable of their symbolical properties.

and from whence it will follow that the non-introduction of such can pro
duce nothing wrong." Thus, x* + a x -f b, which is equal to

           {-/(.·+&*./&->)}

        *{A*+i)'-V(i-»)}

is also equal to

whatever be  the   value of the quantity /3  ;   a  conclusion which enables us to
reason upon  real    quantities and to make  ,S      0, when the primitive factors
                                                 =
V-"are required. Similarly, if instead of e
                                                    +s e-x^/~ = y, we suppose

_-
  2
                   = y -- R , and if instead of     2-/-1 -- = x.

we suppose   ^a/P-* -- e-xV/i-'        = x -- R, we shall find, whatever /3 may be,
                  2 V p-- 1

-e*v^~' = y -- R' + V-/3-- 1 (x -- R), a result which degenerates into

the well known theorem e-* ' = y -|- V -- 1 x, if /3 = 0. Many other ex

amples are given of this mode of porismatizing expressions, (a term derived by
Mr.Gompertz from the definition of porisms in geometry,) by which operations
are performed upon real quantities which would be otherwise imaginary :

and if it was required to satisfy a scrupulous mind respecting the correctness
of the real conclusions which are derived by the use of imaginary expressions,
there are few methods which appear to me better calculated for this purpose
than the adoption of this most refined and beautiful expedient.
  The second tract of Mr. Gompertz appears to have been suggested by
M. Buee's paper in the Philosophical Transactions, to which reference has been
made in the text : it is devoted to the algebraical representation of lines both
in position and in magnitude,          ampoastrtimofpaortthaenot royfothfewchoantcluhesiotnesrmosbtafuinnecd
tional projections, and embraces  as
                                  the

by Argand and Francais, with whose researches, however, he does not appear
                          I should by no means consider the process of rea
to have been acquainted.
soning which he has followed for obtaining these results to be such as would
naturally or necessarily follow from the fundamental assumptions of algebra :
but it would be unjust to Mr. Gompertz not to express my admiration of the
skill and ingenuity which he has shown in the treatment of a very novel
subject and in the application of his principles to the solution of many curious
and difficult geometrical problems.
236                      THIRD REPORT 1833.

  If we assume a to denote a finite quantity, then

   (1.) a + 0 = a, and a + <x> = + oo .
   Consequently 0 does not affect a quantity with which it is
connected by the sign + or -- , whilst oo , similarly connected
with such a quantity, altogether absorbs it.

8x0(x2.)'        = 0, a      x oo    = cc:  -r- = x                                                      and -- =0.
                                                                                                                  oo
                                            0

   It is this reciprocal relation between zero and infinity which
is the foundation of the great analogy which exists between
Iftheir analytical properties.
    (3.) these symbols be considered absolutely by themselves,
without any reference to their symbolical origin, then we must

           = and                =.
considerif               oo

But         0-Jr
                             1
                                                               1
                                                                   I

                                                                        0
                                                                                               ,
          those symbols be considered as the representatives
equally of all orders of zeros and infinities respectively, then

jr and     may represent either or a or or oo its final

form and value being determined, when capable of determina
tion, by an examination of the particular circumstances under
which those symbols originated. The whole theory of vanish
ing fractions will depend upon such considerations.

   Having ascertained the principal symbolical conditions which
   and oo are required to satisfy, we shall be prepared to con
sider likewise the principle of their interpretation. The exami
nation of a few cases of their occurrence may serve to throw
some light upon this inquiry.
   Let us consider, in the first place, the interpretation of the
0

                      y 0,

                                      ct
                                             + + ^f

                                                        b

                                           y

                                                             c

                                                                                                     "1
critical values      oo and          in the formulae which express the

values of x and in the simultaneous equations,

In this case we find     ax               =
                            x
                                     Vy = c'J

If -r -- tt>     --   =  --a7,  and  therefore                                                           -=- = -n, thenar = ·--
                 a
     b
                b
                                                                         b
                                                                                      b

                                                                                  0

and V=-q-
                REPORT ON CERTAIN BRANCHES OF ANALYSIS.                                             237

   In this case a' = m a, V = m a, and d = mc, and the second
equation is deducible from the first, and does not furnish, there
fore, a new condition : under such circumstances, therefore,
the values of x and y are really indeterminate, and the occur

rence of -j- in the values of the expressions for x and y is the

sign, or rather the indication of that indetermination.

    If c     be  not   equal    to     c1     but  i. f  --b  be eq^ual  to    V           then  x=  00
        -T-                                                                    --a7,
    0                                 -,a-v,              a
and y = 00 . In this case we have a'=-ma,V = m b, but c' is
not equal to m c; and the conditions furnished are inconsistent,
or more properly speaking impossible. In this case, the occur
rence of the sign 00 in the expressions for x and y is the sign
or  indication   of this inconsistency or                                                   it should
be  observed     that no infinite values                    oimf xpoasnsdibyil,ityif:  and  infinities
                                                                                       the
thus introduced were considered as real existences and identi
cal in both equations, would satisfy the two equations any more
than any two finite values of x and y which would satisfy one

of them. We may properly interpret 00 in this case by the

term impossible.            i. f --V
    If -rc        d                                               --b ,
             =         but            be      not  equal      to         then  x       is  zero  and y
                 -77,

is finite, and therefore possible. It is in this sense that we
should include zero amongst the possible values of x or y, a
use or rather an abuse of language to which we are somewhat
familiarized, from speaking of the zero of quantity as an exist
ing state of it in the transition from one affection of quantity to

Ifanother.

      we should take the equations of two ellipses, whose semi-
-axes are a and b, a' and V respectively,                         which are

                                      ai -r bi                l,

                                      x* w*

and consider them as simultaneous when expressing the co
ordinates of their points of intersection, then we should find
                       - J(t? -a/{ &a
                                      b'*}                                                 a'*)
    V V/fa*x =                        WT
                       JTlao2*  ~             and        y  =                  ~           «'2T  .
                                      a'*J
                                                                         Li2               bV

If we suppose -- = ---,, or the ellipses to be similar, and at the

same time b not equal to b', then x = 00 and y = oo , which
                        THIRD REPORT -- 1833.

would properly be interpreted to mean that under no cir
cumstances whatever, whether in the plane of x y or in the
plane at right angles to in which the hyperbolic portions* of
curves expressed by those equations are included, would point
of intersection or simultaneous value of x and exist or in
                      a                                       y                                                    :a
                                it,

other words, the sign or symbol oo would in this case mean

Ifthat such intersection was impossible.          we supposed -- = --                                                     -,

and also = b',or the ellipses to be coincident in all their parts,
   b
                                  -^

                                         y
then we should find x =              and = ~, indicating that their

values were indeterminate, in as much as every part in the iden
Iftical curves would be also a point of intersection, and would fur
nish therefore simultaneous values.                    we should suppose
                                                                                                                   ,
                -ra greater than a/, and                                                                                     b
greater than  ',V                                      not equal to -=t then
                    is
we should find

                         x = a and   ly   =- (I    --  $, 1,
                                                  --
                      or x = a \/ --      and  V

                                               y

according as -r less or greater than -r?. In this case, one

ellipse entirely includes the other, but the hyperbolic portions

at right angles to their planes, which are in the direction of
the major axis in one case and in that of the minor axis in the
other, will intersect each other at points whose coordinates are
the values of x and above given                would appear, therefore,
                        y

                                    is

                                                            :

                                                 it

                                                                                                                1
that the impossible intersection of the curves would be indi

cated by the sign or symbol oo alone, and not by a/ -- .;
   The preceding example full of instruction with respect to

the interpretation of the signs of algebra, when viewed in con
nexion with the specific values and representations of the sym
bols and there are few problems in the application of algebra
to the theory of curve lines which would not furnish the mate
rials for similar conclusions respecting them but                                                                  chiefly
                                                              :

                                                                         it
                                                                              is

with reference to the connexion of those signs with changes in
the nature of quantities, and in the form and constitution of ex
pressions, that their interpretations will require the most care
ful study and examination. We shall proceed to notice a few of

such cases.

· If in thte equat.ion --«*                                                                                               --
   .                                                                                                                   v
                                                                                                                          --
                         it
                                +
                                                 y*

                                                                       1,

                                                                            y

                                                                                                                         1

                                                                                                    y

                                                                            i

                                                                                                                               1,
                                     -p- = we suppose         replaced by

and the line which      represents when not affected by V -- to be moved

through 90° at right angles to the plane of x y, we shall find an hyperbola
included in the equation of the ellipse.
REPORT ON CERTAIN BRANCHES OF ANALYSIS.                                                239

The second member of the equation

                   1    =  --1  +   b             +  62
                                   -ar**
             a-- b          a                        -an3 +

preserves the same form, whatever be the relation of the values
of a and b, and the operation, which produces                it,
                                                                is

                                                                    b,
                                                                               b
                                                                                is
                                                             equally prac
ticable in all cases. As long as a greater than a --
                           b,                                                          po
                                           is
sitive, and there exists, or may be conceived to exist, a perfect
arithmetical equality between the two members of the equa

tion. If, however, a = we have -jj- upon one side and the

sum of an infinite series of units multiplied into -- upon the

other, and both the members are                 correctly represented by oo
                                                 negative and finite value
but if a be less than we have                                is
                        b,                                       a
                                               a
                                                                           ,
upon one side of the equation, and an infinite series of perpe                   a
tually increasing terms upon the other, forming one of those
quantities to which the older algebraists would have applied                                      ;
the term plus quam infinitum, and which we shall represent by
                                remains to interpret the occurrence
the sign or symbol oo .    It

of such a sign under such circumstances.

The first member of this equation ----t                      said to pass

through infinity when its sign changes from + to -- or con
versely its equivalent algebraical form presents itself in se
ries which incapable of indicating the peculiar change in the
:

      is

_nature of the quantity designated by                        ,, which accompa

nies its change of sign. The infinite values, therefore, of the
equivalent series (for  in its general algebraical form,     where no
regard paid to the      specific values of the symbols,              still
(a                    is
      is
                                       -i
         (a
                                                                         it
                                                                                   is
an equivalent form,) the indication of the impossibility of ex

hibiting the value of ---- in a series of such a form under

such circumstances.
Let us, in the second place, consider the more general series
for -- b)n, or
                                   n --+                     . -j
      - -6)» = a'-i
             («
                         1)

                               1

                           («
                                       2) .

                                                       b3

                                     \

                                        }'
             - -n                                    + &c
                  1.2.3

The inverse ratio of the successive coefficients of this series
240 THIRD REPORT -- 1833.

approximates continually to -- 1 as a limit, and the terms be
come all positive or all negative, according as the first negative

coefficient is that of an odd or of an even power of --. It follows,

therefore,   that   if a be greater   than b,    the series                    will be   conver
gent and    finite                              equal to b,                     it will  be 0, 1,
                    in all cases ;   if a be    or negative
                                                                                ; and    if a be
or oo , according as n is positive, 0,
less than b, it will
   The occurrence     be  infinite.  of these   signs                      or  values  is  an  in
                          the last
                      of

dication generally that some change has taken place in the na
ture of the quantity expressed by (a -- b)n, in the transition
from a > b to a < b, which is of such a kind that the correspond

ing series is not competent to express it : thus, if n = 4, then
\/(a -- b)n is affected with the sign
                                                -- 1 when a is less than b,

whilst no such sign is introduced nor introducible into the equi
valent series corresponding to such relative values of a and b :
and a similar change will take place, whenever a transition

through zero or infinity takes place.
    In this last case (a -- b)n would appear to attain to zero or in

finity, but not to pass through and no change would appa
                    b

                       ;

                                           it,
rently take place in its affection corresponding to the change of
affection of a --     but the corresponding series will under the

same circumstances change from being finite to infinite, a cir
cumstance which we shall afterwards have occasion to notice,
and which we shall endeavour to explain in the course of our
observations upon the subject of diverging and converging
series.
In the preceding examples the sign or symbol oo has not
presented itself immediately, but has replaced an infinite series
of terms, whose sum exceeded any finite magnitude and may
be considered as indicating the incompetence of such series
to express the altered state or conditions of the quantity or
                                                                               ;

                                                                                       a

                                                                                        it

fraction to which was required to be altogether, as well as
algebraically, equivalent. In the examples which follow, will
         it                                                                                it

            1,

                j'
                           it

                                      , it
                                                                         

                                                        is +
                                                       C
                                                                  is
present itself immediately and will be found to be the indica
tion of a change in the algebraical form of the term or terms in
which appears, or rather that no terms of the form assigned
can present themselves in the required equivalent series or

expression.

Jx'The integral       dx =                                                 said to fail when

n = -- in as much as appears that under such circum-
stances --x"--- becomes oo which
                                                an indication that the va
            REPORT ON CERTAIN BRANCHES OF ANALYSIS.                         241

riable part of /x"dx is no longer expressible by a function

-under the form --p but by one which must be determined

by independent considerations. A knowledge, however, of the
nature of its form     in this particular case has
to bring it under                                   enabled algebraists
or impossibility       a general form, by which              sign of failure
                       is replaced by the sign      the
                       x" + '                               indetermination
                                                    of

^-y --0                                    --x" + * a" + '
                                                  -^
q-;
for        if we put             +  C  =                    +  C,  (borrowing

--- «"+'

  - , y from the arbitrary constant,) we shall get an expression

which becomes -^ when n = -- 1, and whose value, determined

according   to the rules which         are founded upon the analytical
properties  of 0, will be log x        + C.
            general example of         the same kind, including the one
  A more
which we have just considered, is given
211, where it is required to determine             in the note     to page
                             I                     the general
                                                                   form of
                           '
 d* 1       and  °f   dr     x»    (wnere  n is a positive     number)      for all
d~xr ' -x            d-xr

values of r : a formula is there constructed, from our knowledge
of the form in the excepted case, which is capable of correctly
expressing its value in all cases whatever.
The cases in which the series of Taylor is said to fail are of
                       Thus, if u         = <p(x)  =+,xcP+«*/rx7IA--T3 Ba,
                                          d*u h*
. j-, ^ wa similar nature.,.   du ,                                         then
*.mf,, (/x  +,      =      +,          +
                h)             j-xh                                         &c;

and if we suppose x = a, all the diiFerential coefficients -p^,

t--2, &c, become infinite, which is an indication that no terms

of such a form exist in its developement, which becomes, under
such circumstances, a + \/h. The reasons of this failure in
such cases have been very completely explained by Lagrange
and other writers ; but it is possible, by presenting the deve
lopement which constitutes Taylor's series under a somewhat
different and a somewhat more general form, that the series may
be so constructed as to include all the excepted cases.
   There are     two modes     in   which the developement     of $ (x +
according to     powers of     h    may be supposed to be                   Ihn)
                                                               effected.
the first and common mode we begin by excluding all those
rterms in the developement whose existence would be incon-
    1833.
242                      THIRD REPORT 1833.

sistent with general values of the symbols : in the second we
should assume the existence of all the terms which may cor
respond to values of the symbols, whether general or specific,
and then prescribe the form which they must possess, con
Ifsistently with the conditions which they are required to satisfy.
    we adopt this second course, and assuming             u = <p (x) and

u' = p (x + h), if we make

           u' = u + A h" + B A* + C hc + &c,

the inquiry will then be, if there be such a term as A h", where
A is a function of  x or                             and  a is any quantity
                          a constant quantity,            which it may be
whatsoever, what     are                           A by
                          the properties of
determined? For this purpose we shall proceed as follows.
It
if   is very easy to     show, from      general considerations,       that
    vi be considered     successively                                 of h,
                                         as a function of x and

a-j--x*- = -drhjr; , for all values of r, whether whole or fractional,

positive or negative : it will follow, therefore, (adopting the
principles of differentiation to general indices which have been
laid down in the note, p. 211,) that

    dh°- r(i) -A + r(i + b-a)'an + ^c-'

omitting the arbitrary complementary functions, which will in
volve powers of h. In a similar manner we shall get

           -d^ = dx^ + -J^'h +-dx--'h +&C'

If these results be identical with each other, we shall find

                         ~r(lfJ+JTa)  x _d"u

                                             da?'

                    = ,,,-. --; . -j-- 5, since
r(l)Aand, therefore,                                      = 1. It is easy

to extend the same principle to the determination of the other
coefficients, and we shall thus find

     u  =  u +,  d" u .   h"          +  dhu       h"     +,  &_ c-;  (,.L).

                 d*> rTn^)               dP-rTrTT)

or, in other words, it follows that the coefficient of any power
of h whose index is r will be

                               1 dru

                          r(l + r)' dx*'
     REPORT ON CERTAIN BRANCHES OF ANALYSIS.                                               243

   The next step is to adapt the series (1) to the different cases
which an examination of the constitution of the function u' will

Ifpresent to us.

       we suppose x to possess a general value, then u' and u
will possess the same number of values, and no fractional
r(Ipower of h can present itself in the developement. In this case
the   + a) = 1   . 2...    a, and it may                     be            readily proved that
     successive  indices                                     the            successive numbers
                          a, b, c, &c, are
1, 2, 3, &c, and that consequently,

     . du , cPu h*
     \.2.3,                                                  <Pu           h3           0

     du ax* 1.2 dor
It will also follow that the series for u' can involve no negative
r(\and integral power of h ; for in that case the factorial
                                                                                           + a),
Ifwhich appears in its denominator, would become oo, and the
term would disappear.     it should appear, also, that for spe
cific values of x any differential coefficient and its successive
values should become infinite, they must be rejected from the
developement, in as much as in that case the equation

would no longer exist, which is the only condition of the intro
duction of the corresponding terms. In other words, those
terms in the developement of u' must be equally obliterated,
whIifcht,heungdeenrersaul chdifcfiercruemntsitaalnccoeesf,ficbieenctomoef
                                                                           either 0 or   oo.
                                                                           u could be
                                                                                        assigned,
its examination would, generally speaking, enable us to point
out its finite values wherever they exist, for those specific va
lues of the symbols which make the integral differential coeffi
cients zero or infinity. For all such values there will be a cor
responding term in the developement of u under those circum
stances. Thus, if we suppose u = x \/a -- x, we shall find

  1 dru (-1)r+,r(l) ['(«-*)- (§-')*

I j\'.<+'> **- rcu,)r(!-0 (!-,)e-.r'

if we make x = a, this expression will be neither zero nor

infinity in two cases only, which are when r = -3-, and when

r = -g- : in the first case we get,

                                                       1 71

                          r2
244 THIRD REPORT 1833.

and in the second we get,

                1 .,               ^v~/_1i--,2^3 (a-a) -·=!»
                                 -|r(0) xOx(a-a)
           ,/\_25/\ dd2$^x«

since r(l) = 1 = 0 r(0), and the symbol 0 in the denominator
   3       3
=  g       s-, is a simple zero.           The corresponding developement

of u' under such circumstances is

Ifa result which is very easily verified.

       we pay a proper regard to the hypotheses which deter
mine the existence of terms in the series for u' for specific
values of the independent variable, we shall be enabled without
difficulty to select the indices of the differential coefficients
which can present themselves amongst the coefficients of the
different powers of h in the developement. For, in the first

place, h%, and the differential coefficient whose index is -- , will

possess the same number of values, and the same signs of affec-

Iftion.    there  be         a  term   in  u which         =  P (x                   m             P

                                                                         -- a)", where
neither becomes zero nor infinity, when x = a, and where the
multiple values of P, if any, are independent of those contained
                                                           term of ffmi :.--P.'(-+x-£
--in   --      m                                                                                          m
   (x             then  it will  appear    that     the
           a)",                                                                                     a)--"

                                                              »m                           dx"     that

                                                              /yjl       --v __
--which is independent                 --       --      P           --\       m  fa'\  it
                                of (x               is                                     ,  and
                                           o)»             .

                                                                    dx"

all the other terms of --, being either zero or infinity when
                                dx"
x = a, or, if finite, introducing, through the medium of the
factorial function by which they are multiplied, multiple values
which are greater in number than those contained in u, must
be rejected, as forming                    of                                                 It will of
course follow, that the          no part   P        the   developement.                       such cir
                                 function           will  become, under
cumstances, a function of h, and if we represent it by P', and
denote its values, and those of its successive differential coeffi
cients, when h = 0, by p,pl, p",p"', &c, we shall find

       F ssp+p'k+p"^ +//"r7f73 + &c,
          REPORT ON CERTAIN BRANCHES OF ANALYSIS.                                                        245

none of which become zero or infinity, in as much as P does not
vanish when x = a.

  If there exist other terms in u of a similar kind, such as
                         ml  R m''
                                (x -- c)"77, &c, the same          observations         will apply
Q (x -- ft)"7,
to them. Such terms will correspond to values of x, which
make radical expressions of any kind zero or infinity, and the
form of the function u must be modified when necessary, so
that such radicals may present themselves in single terms of

the form P (x -- a)». The same observations will apply to ne

gative as well as positive values of -- , unless we suppose -- a

negative whole number. The principle of the exception in this
last case may be readily inferred from the remarks in the note,
p. 211, on the subject of the values of -3d---*-- . --1 , when n is a

Ifwhole number.              we suppose, therefore, u to involve terms
                                                               m'
such  as  P                    Of                                  &c, the  most general                 form
                                      Q (» -- 6)»',
             (x -- o)»,
under which its developement can be put, supposing all terms
which become zero or infinity for specific values of x to be
rejected, will be as follows :

      ,   a -- a _,                -     tn  (x --       fn           *
          <*-·>~                              dx-n
                                      d»            o)»            h»

                                                                   r(l+

                             --t-?y,., d"' -- b)"'                           =)
                                        dx»
                                                                                                      '
               --                                                  FITm'
                                                                           h»'
      + x-^n,
,                                                                  ZT. ^A + &c-

        b
            +

                  b

                            -

                                (x
or,                          ddxuhl+tddx2-*uTh72iid+3dux* TT. hisO          +,        &Cl'

    *z=u                                                                             0

          b-b ,. *A2 ,,
      +
          &c.
              (

                                                                   ,,

                                     \

                                                                                                                  .
                                                                                           a--a
                                                                   signs or factors
_We have introduced the discontinuous
   246 THIRD REPORT 1833

   b-bx r, &c, which become equal to 1 when x = a or x = b, &c,

   but which are zero for all other values of x, to show that the
   terms into which they are multiplied disappear from the deve-
   Iopement in all cases except for such specific values of x.

      The existence of the terms of the series for u is hypothetical
   only, and the equation which must be satisfied, as the essential
   condition of the existence of any assigned hypothetical term, at
   once directs us to reject those terms which would lead to infi
   nite values of the differential coefficients, as well as those which
                                 values which are                 with those con
   tpaoisnseedssinmuu'.ltipIlet  is quite obvious   incompatible  other principle
                                                   that upon no
   could we either reject such infinite values, or justify the con
   nexion of a series of terms with the general form of «', which
   have no existence except for specific values of x. The con
   clusion obtained is of considerable importance, in as much as it

   shows that the series of Taylor, if considered and investigated

   as having a contingent, and not a necessary existence, may be
   so exhibited as to comprehend all those cases in which it is
   commonly said to fail : and it will thus enable us to bring under
   the dominion of the differential calculus many peculiar cases in
   its different applications which have hitherto required to be
   treated by independent methods.

     Thus, if it was required to determine the value of the fraction

   _--(x* a2--)i , when x = a, we should find it to be,

   - afx* (x

                                 ax*
                                 ---a2
                                                   a'f
                                 dx*» . x* (Kx
   or,

               ---               -*-!  af          =(i# = 4V^;

        x*  .  dx7               (x

   a conclusion which would be justified by the developement of
   the numerator and denominator of this fraction by the complete
   form of Taylor's series, when x = a.

      Many delicate and rather obscure questions in the theory of
   maxima and minima, particularly those which Euler has deno-

"
             REPORT ON CERTAIN BRANCHES OF ANALYSIS.                    247

minated maxima and minima of the second species, and others
also relating to the singular or critical points of curve lines,
must depend for their dilucidation upon this more general view
of Taylor's series, as connected with the consideration of ge
neral differential coefficients*.

· Euler has devoted an entire chapter of his Calculus Differentialis to the
examination   of what he    terms the differentials of functions in certain peculiar
              well known    that he adopted Leibnitz's original view of the prin
cases. It is

ciples of the differential calculus, and considered differentials of the first and

higher orders as infinitesimal values of differences of the first and higher orders.
Such a principle necessarily excludes the consideration of differential coefficients
as essentially connected with determinate powers of the increment of the inde
pendent variable, which may be said to constitute the essence of Taylor's
theorem, and which must be the foundation of all theories of the differential

calculus, which make its results depend upon the relation of forms, and not
upon the relation of values. As long, however, as the independent variable
continues indeterminate, the symbolical values of the differentials are the same
upon both hypotheses. But when we come to the consideration of specific va
lues of the independent variable which make differential coefficients above or
below a certain order, infinite or zero, then such a view of the nature of dif
ferentials necessarily confounds those of different orders with each other. Thus,

if y = a% + (x -- o)t, Euler makes, when x = a, dy= (dxfi, instead of

              Ifd- y
6- \ T<fo"y                             y = 2 a x -- x1 + a^/ (<j» -- x1), he makes,
=3            = (d x)*.

when x = u, d \j = a >J -- 2 a . d x^, instead of

These examples are quite sufficient to make manifest the inadequacy of
merely arithmetical views of the principles of the differential calculus to ex
hibit the correct relation which exists between different orders of differentials,
and, a fortiori, therefore, between different orders of differential coefficients.
M. Cauchy, in his Lecons sur le Calcul Infinitesimal (published in 1823), has
attempted    to conciliate  the direct  consideration of   winhfiincihtesLimagarlsangweitfhirstthesepcuurreelyly
algebraical  views of the   principles  of this calculus,

established ; and it may be very easily conceded that no attempt of this able
analyst, however much at variance with ordinary notions or ordinary practice,
would fail from want of a sufficient command over all the resources of analysis.
He considers all infinite series as fallacious which are not convergent, and that,
consequently, the series    of Taylor, when it     takes  the  form of an indefinite series,
is not generally true.                              that  he   has transferred it from the
                            It is for this reason

differential to the integral calculus, and exhibits it as a series with a finite
number of terms completed by a definite integral. It is very true that M. Cauchy
has perfectly succeeded in dispensing with the consideration of infinite series in
Ithe establishment of most of the great principles of the differential and integral

calculus ; but should by no means feel disposed to consider his success in over
coming difficulties which such a course presents as a decisive proof of the expe
diency of following in his footsteps. The fact that the operations of algebra
                              it
                                                           is,

                                                          if
                                                                    if
be general, we must necessarily obtain indefinite series, and the symbols we
                              will be impossible to determine, in most cases,
employ are general likewise,
  248    THIRD REPORT 1833.

     Signs of discontinuity are those signs which, in conformity
  with the general laws of algebra, are equal to 1 between given
  Iflimits of one or more of the symbols involved, and are equal to
  zero for all their other values.                                                        merely conventional signs
  were required, we might assume arbitrary symbols for this
  purpose, attaching to them far greater clearness as diventical
  marks, the limits of the symbol or symbols between which the
  sign of discontinuity was supposed to be applied. Thus, we
  might suppose xDo0 to denote 1, when x was taken between

  0 and a, to denote zero for all other values ; *Da+°6, to denote 1,

  when x was taken between a and a + b, and zero for all other
  ovaflTtuwheosusl;i,naeinsfd, yasn=imd iialfaxwrlye+sinu(Zpopatonhsdeerdycat=hsaetas..'
                                                                                          x + $' were the equations

                                                                                          the generating point whose
coordinates are x and y was taken in the first line between the
  ^ ^limits 0 and a, and in the second line between the limits a and b,
  then we should have generally,

--       y = *Dfl° (« x + &) + *D»a (*' x + 00                                            ----  (1.)

                                                                                                        --

the convergency or divergency of the series which result. It is only, therefore,
when we come to specific values that a question will arise generally respecting
the character of the series : and it is only when we are compelled to deduce the
function which generates the series from the application of the theory of limits
to the aggregate of a finite number of its terms, that its convergency or diver
gency becomes important as affecting the practicability of the inquiry : in short,
it must be an erroneous view of the principles of algebra which makes the result
of any general operation dependent upon the fundamental laws of algebra to be
fallacious. The deficiency should in all such cases be charged upon our power
of interpretation of such results, and not upon the results themselves, or upon the
  certainty and generality of the operations which produce them : in short, the
rejection of diverging series from analysis, or of such series as may become
  divergent, is altogether inconsistent with the spirit and principles of symbolical
algebra, and would necessarily bring
cation of cases which characterized the  us back again to that                            tedious multipli
                                         infancy of the science.
                                                                                           A very instruc
tive example of the consequences of adopting such a system may be seen in the
researches of M. Liouville, which have been noticed in the note at p. 217.
    Lagrange in his Thiorie des Fonctions Analytiques, and in his Calciil det
Fonctions, has given theorems for determining the limits between which the
remainder of Taylor's series, after a finite number of terms, is situated : and
the same subject has been very fully discussed in a memoir by Ampere, in the
sixth volume of the Journal de VEcole Polytechnique.
                                                                                          Such theorems are ex

tremely important in the practical applications of this series, but they in no
respect affect either the existence or the derivation of the series itself. It is a

very common error to confound the order in which the conclusions of algebra
present themselves, and to connect difficulties in the interpretation and appli
cation of results with the existence of the results themselves : and it is the in

fluence of this prejudice which has induced some of the greatest modern ana
lysts, not merely to deny the use, but to dispute the correctness of diverging
series.

    Messrs. Swinburne and Tylecote, the joint authors of a Treatise on ihc true
REPORT ON CERTAIN BRANCHES OF ANALYSIS.                                                                                         249

Thus, if in the triangle A C B, we
draw C D, a perpendicular from the
vertex to the base, and if we suppose
A D = a, A B      = b, A the                                    of
                   A B the                     origin           x,                ».--
the coordinates,                              axis of
y = ax the equation of the line A C,
                                                                         *,.··'"  *                                             *
and y = a! x + the equation of the                                                   y
by
                                                                                          *
    B

          C,

             y
                                         /S'
line then we should find that the value of represented
the equation
              = JDa° .ax *Dh" x + ?)*
                                              +                 C, (a1                                                          (*·)
                                                                    C
AwoBulCd ,beexccoenpfitninedg                 to the two sides  A and             B       of the triangle
                                              only the point                         if C
                                                                which corresponds to the
common limit of the discontinuous signs. For we suppose

*D0° and -"Di" to be true up to their limits, we shall find, when
IfX = a, that *D0° + *Dj0 = 2.
                                                                we replace, however,
- -'Da° by -Do0 ±=£ and -D4" by *DS° ±=£

              the     Binomial Theorem,          which was                        poubf ltishheedsignin=18t2o7,simhapvlee
                      for the restriction of     the meaning
Developement  of

contended vigorously             :

                                                                     (o

                                                             -f
                                                                                                    ;
                                                                                                            a
                                                                                                                             a
arithmetical equality, and would reject its use when placed between function
and its developement, unless its complete remainder, after finite number of
terms, should replace the remaining terms of the series or unless, when the

indefinite series was supposed to be retained, the value or the generating func

tion of this remainder could be assigned. In conformity with this principle
they have assigned the remainder in the series for                                *)", which they exhibit
under the following form

                     (fjl)(f +                   ...(n-1)                    a'-r-i-i

                                    ..           ----                              x)"f
"·"····               1 (a 1J                 .                          '                '
                           +2                      (in 2)
                                                                             (o
                                                      r
                                                                                     -)-
                                                                     1)
                                                                                    r
the remainder being                           x)* xr+1 multiplied into n -- terms of the deve-

x)_aylopement of {(a +                           1
                                              + v or of ^TV

   The method which they have employed for this purpose, which extremely
ingenious, succeeds for integral values of n, whether positive or negative, but
fails to assign the law when the index fractional. But my own views of the
principles of symbolical algebra would, of course, induce me to attach very little
value to results which were exhibited in such a form as to be incapable of being
generalized, a defect under which the formula given above evidently labours.

   · The conventional sign *D4° might be replaced, though not with perfect
                                                 is
                                                                                                  is

,,_propriety, by the definite integral           0I                      x.

                                                        ,

                                                            d
250                       THIRD REPORT 1833.

and if we make, therefore,                                                                           (s.|

fa fa- -y = *=$ .x + 1=$ «* + n
tshideeseqAuatioanndwill  beotfrwuteheesfuotprripatonhsgeeleorAd=inBaCte.i,of         point of the
                                                                               every
   More generally,                                                              =     x, = <?3*j
     C                                 y

           a                                 a

               C                              ft
                                                     y
                if B
                                                                   fa

                                                                   y
y  = <Pi x, &c, to be the equations of series of curves, then the

equation of polylateral curve composed of the several portions
of the separate curves corresponding      to values of x, included
between the limits a and                  and &c, would be,
                          b,
                             b
                                            c
                                                        d,
                          and c,

     +(w-JrD ** + »«.                                                                           (i)
   It
                                                                                              
                                                            if
the value of the ordinate at each successive limit being replaced
by that of the succeeding curve. In this manner, we should
grant the existence of the sign of discontinuity, we should be
enabled to represent the equations of polygons, and of poly
lateral curves of every description.

       remains to consider the nature of the expressions which

are competent to express XD".
    The expressions which have been generally proposed for this
purpose are either infinite series, or their
integrals. Le Comte de Libri, however, a                                       equivalent       definite
                                                                               Florentine       analyst
of distinguished genius, has proposed* finite exponential ex
pression which will answer this purpose. The examination ofis
the expression
                                            1
                          eClogO)^0"*-"'
                                               a
would readily show that its value               when x greater than
a, and that               when x equal to or less than a.                      is is                 will
           1 it           is                                                                    It
therefore follow that the productis
                    0               :                                                               0
             eG°gO) ,<*««»-« x e(log0)e(lo»0)(4-x)

is equal to between the limits a and and equal to atb,
those limits, and for all other values. And, in as much as

   · Memoires de Mathematique et de Physique, p. 44. Florence 1829. The
author has since been naturalized in France, and has been chosen to succeed
Legendre as a member of the Institute he has made most important additions
to the mathematical theory of numbers.
REPORT ON CERTAIN BRANCHES OF ANALYSIS.                              251

e0»g0) -- os we may replace the preceding product by the equi
valent expression

This expression, which is equivalent to *T)°                         ,

has been applied by Libri to the expression of many important
theorems in the theory of numbers *.

  /The definite integral /*°°d--r sin r x has been shown by

Eulerf and many other writers, to be equal to -^ when x is

                                        -- if                        It
-5-positive,                                         x is negative.
to 0 when x is 0,              and to          when

follows, therefore, that                f \(a + b)

        2 p<*dr . (b-a)

/ /=
-- °°  --t sin         (x  --  a) r  H  *«-' 0  --r sin (x -- b) r
Vk/0

is equal to 1, when x is between the limits a and b, to ^, when x is

Ifat those limits, and to zero, for all other values. we denote the

/definite integral --      --- sin -- -- r cos< x -- v--^--' > r

by C4°, we shall get,

                               2(*-o) 2(*- 6)'

and consequently the equation of a polylateral curve, such as
that which is expressed by equation (4.), will be,

C/y = C»" . <p, x + Cc* . <?i x 4-              . p3 x + &c,

in as much as at the limits we have ^ (b) = p9 (6), p2 (c) = p3 (c),
and consequently for such limits Cj" p, (6) + Ce* p2 (6) = p, (6)

= ps (A), and not 2 p2 (6).

   All definite integrals which have determinate values within
given limits of a variable not involved in the integral sign, may
be converted into formulae which will be equal to 1 within those

  · Crelk's Journal for 1830, p. 67.
   t Inst. Calc. Intey., torn. iv. ; Fourier, Thiorie de la Chaleur, p. 442. ; Frul-
!oui, Memorie delta Sociela Italiana, torn. xx. p. 448. ; Libri, Metnoirei de Ma-
thematique et de Physique, p. 40.
252         .       THIRD REPORT -- 1833.

limits and also including the limits, and to zero for all other
values *. But the expressions which thence arise, though fur
nishing their results in strict conformity with the laws of sym

bolical combinations, possess no advantage in the business of
calculation beyond the conventional and arbitrary signs of dis

continuity which we first adopted for this purpose : but though
it is frequently useful and necessary to express such signs ex
plicitly, and to construct formulae which may answer any as
signed conditions of discontinuity, yet such conditions will be
also very commonly involved implicitly, and their existence and
character must be ascertained from an examination of the pro
perties of the discontinuous formulae themselves. We shall now

fproceed to notice some examples of such formulae.
   The well known series
--r it + -xq= sin*
                    1~-sin2r         +   1   sin      3  x         --      1       + &c.     (1.)

                                        -5-                              -2-sin4x

is limited to  integral values  of r,   wahreetihnecrlupdoesditibveetwoerenneg-*3a-tiavned,
and to such                      x
               values of r * +
                                -^- as

--  it   :  the value of r,  therefore, is not                     arbitrary but condi-
    -g-

* If a definite integral (C) has n determinate values «,, et.2, - . . a«, within
the limits of the variable a and b, and no others, the values at those limits
- - - -being included, and if C be equal to zero for all values beyond those limits,

then we shall find
            «D « =  (C       «.) (C «,) - - - (C                         «.) + 1;
                             xt»i X «9
                                             . . . ccn

- - -thus in the case considered in the text, we get               -= C' + C.
            *DA" =  2 (C     1) (C      r                                2         3

                                           -i-)                                           it
                                                                                               is
                                                  +

                                                            1
t    The principle of the introduction of x in equation                  (1      by which          ge
                                                                             .)
neralized, will be sufficiently obvious from the following mode of deducing it:

    l0g|i±^l = l08{1+e*A/=~,}-l0g{^«~*V^}
            .1+e

 r'^ ^= log
- T--J- {'*'V~l
                    J                                                       _ e-'^)

                                                                      1

                                      (/
                    = I/r1 + 2rj v-- =

                    ·-" ^} +            {*3* V~' ~ e-3xV~1}                                  fcc.
                                                                                 4

                                                                                          +
and, therefore, dividing by n/--\, and replacing the exponential expressions
by their equivalent values, we get
                          2
                                           2

                                           +

                                                                3
         ie -- = sin * -- sin x -- sin x                                 sin * + &c.,
    r
           +

where x upon the second side of the  equation may have any value                           between
-+ 00 and -- 00.
              REPORT ON CERTAIN BRANCHES OF ANALYSIS.                                                                       253

Iftional.              we successively         replace, therefore,       x  by    ~  +  x and
                                                                                  *
--v

s x, we shall get

          -r * + ^ + 1£ = cos X + -- sin2 x -g cos 3 x

                                    --j- sin 4 x + &c.

   - -»*» + "J ~ "J = c°s x                                              -I cos 3*
                                                            g" sin 2*

                                    + -r sin 4 .r + &c.

Adding these two series together and dividing by 2, we get
                        *                           cos . x
(--r +--                -£
g          *                                                  -- cos x -- &c. (2.)
                     +      =  cos x --        -3 1
      t*)                                                  3

                    ,                                           ,+

                                                                                 1

                                                                    r

                                                                                    5
                                                                                     0

                                                                                                                          r1
                                                                                                                                       0,
If x be included between -3- and                              -- then = and =

and we get

   v       =           cos x  --  1I-g  cosg- 3  x  +       -=- cos * -- &c.
                                                          ,1  r5                          (3.)
   j-                                                                                   =

If xbe included between «* andS--t then = -- and                                      r*
                                                                           ,2f 1
                                                                                              0,

-and we get*=          cos x  --    -^ cos   3 ,,x  +       -j cos * -- &c.
   -j-                                                        -^ 5                                                          (4.)
                                                           1

If the limits of x be               ^        and **,                and           =£ and

3*x, - ---
                     3* ,               --5*   we   shall obtain values       of the    series
"q-*                 -g0- and             o~.

(2.), which are alternately -j- and --

  -Again, in equation (1.), or rv + --x = sin* --sin 2*
+                                   +
                                       4
          3 if                                 +

                                                        +
                                                                    -£-.

                                                                                      2,

                                                                                                                         1

                                                                                                          +
-^ sin x                    -r- sin x &c, we replace x by it -- x, we

shall get

+t'* -- g-- = sin x -£-sin2.r -s-sin3 x + -j-sin4.r &c.

Adding these equations together and dividing by we get
   254                    THIRD REPORT 1833.

   x^--g-- ' ir +   = sin x + -^- sin 3 * + -p- sin 5 x + &c. (5.)

                                 to be equal to -I4jf-    and --    V  alter-
   rwhich may be easily shown                                       4
                             of
   nately,  in the  passage      x from 0 to it, from tt  to 2 if,  from 2
   to 3 v,          or from  0   to -- it, from -- v to             &c. : its
             &c,                                          -- 2*,

   values at those limits are zero.
      The series (2.) and (5.) have been investigated by Fourier, in
   his Th6orie de la Chaleur *, by a very elaborate analysis, which
   fails, however, in showing the dependence of these series upon
   each other and upon the principles involved in the deduction
   of the fundamental series : and they present, as we shall now
   proceed to show, very curious and instructive examples of dis

   continuous functions.

   The equation y = '-- is that of an indefinite straight line,

   Q A P, making an angle with the axis of x, whose tangent is

   g-, and which passes through the origin of the coordinates:
   whilst the equation

   y = sin x        A-- sin 2 x + -0^- sin 3 x     Vj- sin 4 x + &c.

   is that of a series of terminated straight lines, d' c, d C, D C,
   &c, passing through points a, A, A , &c, which are distant
   2 * from each other : the portion d C alone coincides with the

   primitive line, whose equation is y = -^-.

   Again, the line whose equation is y = -j-, is parallel to the

                             T

            0' a>                               o

              * From page 16* to 190 ; also 267 and 356.

X
          REPORT ON CERTAIN BRANCHES OF ANALYSIS.                                           255

axis of x at the distance -j- above it : the line whose equation is

-- -j-, is also parallel to the axis of x, at the distance -j- below

it : the line whose equation is

          y = cos x     =- cos 3 x + -=- cos 5 x -- &c.

consists of discontinuous portions of the first and second of

those lines, whose lengths are severally equal to it. The values

--of y at the points B and b, corresponding to x = -j- and ^-,

are equal to zero, since the equidistant points D and C, c and d,
are common to both equations at those points.

   It would appear, therefore, in the cases just examined, that
the conversion of one member of the equation of a line into a
series of sines and cosines would change the character of that

equation from being continuous to discontinuous, the coinci
dence of the two equations only existing throughout the ex
tent of one complete period of circulation of the trigonometrical
                                 if,
                                     it
                                          is

                                                                                  a
fisenectrotiesth:sisearcnieodsnvomefrossrioeinnegseonofer rocanolelsyi,nmese,mibneranoyfoobtvthhieoeuresqcuatashteai,otnwtehoefcosuecldcuornevdef
faequation must be discontinuous, and that the coincidence
would take place only throughout one period of circulation,
       a                             X
whether from    to x or from     --      to   9T   It remains therefore
              0                      -g
                  is                         -g-.

to consider whether such a conversion generally practicable.y
                                     .
                                           .

                                               is

                                                   if

                                                           it 0
Let us take n equidistant points in the axis of the curve
                      = x, between the limits and it, those
whose equation          :$
limits being excluded
                          if  we denominate the corresponding

values of the ordinate   by  yv yv . . y,,, and                               be proposed
to express the values of these ordinates by means of a series
....of sines (of n terms) such as
     a, sin x + a2 sin x + a3 sin x +              + an sin n x,
                      2              3

then we shall get the following n equations to determine the
                                                                                            3
coefficients av a.,, a3 . . . . au.                                           .a.s.mni--t ,
                                                                                                  pn
--y^a.sm it +«2.sin2--it + a3s.,n--3it                                        . ff».sm2n--it
                                                                              .an.sin,n^it ,
 - S*, -- ^n-ja, sin^-y a, si.n 4*- + a3 s,.n 6it

.9*y3 = a, sin3--n «2.sin6--i + «3sin--
                j

                    ++

                                   f{[

                                                              f
                                                                        ++ +
256                      THIRD REPORT 1833.

                                                         . 3mt +, . «»s. m;»--2 *p
"a^,^y. = «l8inn--it j
                                 . 2 nit        +
                         + ^sin^--^

Iffrom  any   assigned coefficient              amwebemruesqt umireudltiptolyb*e  determined
        this                                                                      them seve
              system of equations,

rally by

     _  s.in  --m--* r,  2n s.in  n--2m+--*If,  2n si.n  --n8m+--*=1-, .  .  . 2_ sm. --nnm+--rTV,

     2        m+ 1

when all the coefficients except am will disappear from the sum
of the resulting equations : and we shall thus find
" mVf1 *""a" 2
                          . mtr                 .        2m-K  +                             nnnr~\

                         smSTT +                         ^TT                 ···S'-sm»TIi'

It would thus appear that it is always possible to determine a

series of sines of n terms with finite and determinate coeffi
cients, which shall be the equation of a curve which shall have
n points in common with the curve whose equation is y -- $ r,
within the limits corresponding to values of x between 0 and % ;
and it is obvious that the greater the number of those points,
the more intimate would be the contact of these two curves

throughout the finite space corresponding to those limits. If

we should further suppose the number of those points to be
come infinitely great, then the number of terms of the trigono
metrical series would be infinite likewise, and the coincidence of
the curve which it expresses with the curve whose equation is
y = <p x, would be complete within those limits only, producing
a species of contact to which the term finite osculation has been

applied by Fourier f. Beyond those limits the curves would
have no necessary relation to each other.

   It would follow, also, from the preceding view of the theory of
finite osculations, that the curve expressed by y = <$x might be
perfectly arbitrary, continuous, or discontinuous. Thus, it might
express the sides of a triangle, or of a polygon, or of a multi
lateral curve, or of any succession of points connected by any

conceivable law ; for in all cases when the corresponding or-
dinates of equidistant points are finite, we shall be enabled to
determine values of the coefficients am which are finite or zero
by the process which has been pointed out above.

· This is the process proposed by Lagrange in his " Theorie dn Son," in
the third volume of the  Turin    Memoirs, as stated by Poisson in his memoir
on Periodic Series, &c,  in the   19th cahier of the Journal de Vlicole Polytech-

tniqne,

      Th&rie de la Chaleur, page 250.
              REPORT ON CERTAIN BRANCHES OF ANALYSIS.                                                                              257

   The     hypothesis of n              inbteeinggrailn*finite  would     convert    the series
for am
           into the definite

                                  --2   /fQ  <p x  si.n  hi  x   ,  x,
                                                                it

if --we make                                    +:--1r   =      d x:                        if we
                   n+    7 ss     x and      «                          or      otherwise

                         1

assume the existence of the series
           ..<px = a, sin x + «2 sin 2 x +
                                                                   . am sin mn + &c,

it may be readily shown, by multiplying both sides of the equa
tion by sin mx dx, that

                                am = --            <px sin m x dx:

and in a similar manner, if we should assume

       p x = a0 cos 0 * + ax cos * + . . . a,, cos m x + &c,

that

                         /crm = --              <f x cos mx dx t.

    Thus, if we should suppose f x m cos x, we should find

cos    jr  =  --4 Ir -=--g s sin  2x    +    5--4 v sin  4*        -f    --6 =  sin  6x  +  &c. 1I                                 ;

                                                                        -^

a very singular result, which is of course only true between the

limits 0 and *·, excluding those limits J.

  If we should suppose <px = a constant quantity -5- between

the limits 0 and a, and that it is equal to zero between a and v,
we should find

           (- 1--   cos                      -- cos                si.n n x + -------cos
<p  x  =                 - at)  si.n x  H                              2        (1
                   -=                         (1                                           ^

                                                      5                                       S
                                                           2                                    a)
                                                               a)
                                                                                                  x

                               sin x &c,
excluding the limiting value a, when the value of the series
                                             3
                                                     +

                                                                                                                                   is

only |-§.
    If 'D*we should suppose x = TDbn . a, x
                                                                                         x /S'),
§J +

          is

                                 ;
                                            la
                                                                 <p

                                                                    s
                                                                    &

                                                                        +

                                                                                                                                .
                                                                                                                    (a!

                                                                                                              p. +
which the equation of the sides of a triangle (excluding the

  * Poisson, Journal de I'Ecole Polytechnique, cahier xix. p. 447.                                                                 418.
       Fourier, Theorie de Chaleur, pp. 235 240.
      Ibid., p. 238 Poisson, Journal de I'Ecole Poly technique, cahier xix.
      Fourier, Theorie de la Chaleur, p. 244.

1833.
258 THIRD REPORT -- 1833.

limit x = A), whose base is represented by it, then we shall
-find*
<px  = -- {«* + (* -- <*!)b}  I  sin x  --  sin 2 x      sin 3 x            &c.|
                                                      + ~~3~
                                            ~2~

               sinisinx      sin 2 6 sin 2 jt sin36sm3x           +         ,,a
                          + fs + 3s
                      [«                                                            }·

The trigonometrical series, in this last case, would represent a
series of triangles placed alternately in an inverse position with
respect to each other ; and a similar observation would apply
to the discontinuous   curves which are represented by any                  series
                         Thus, if y =       <f x      the
of sines and cosines.  if we suppose              be       equation         of the
curve P C C" Q, and

     fy = x    = a,    sin x + at sin   2 x + as sin 3 x   +  &c,           A  A'
               limits   0 and it ; and
between the                              if we make A      B  = *,
= 2 n, AB' = 3», &c, we shall get
                                                  a  dDis,coantCin"u, oCus     curve,
consisting of a series of similar arcs,
                                                  C                         D1, &c,

placed successively in an inverse relation with respect to each

other upon each side of the axis of x, of which one arc C D
Ifalone coincides with the primitive curve.

       we should suppose the same curve to be expressed be
tween the limits 0 and it by a series of cosines or

     y = <px = a0 + ax cos x + at cos 2 x + &c,

and if we make AB = »,Ai= -- it, A A' = 2 it, A B' = 3 *,
rfCDC&c, then the trigonometrical equation will represent a discon
tinuous curve          D', of which the portions C D and C d,

     * Fourier has given a particular case of this series, p. 246.
           REPORT ON CERTAIN BRANCHES OF ANALYSIS.                                           259

C D' and C D will be symmetrical by pairs ; but one portion
only, C D, will necessarily coincide with the primitive curve.
The theory of discontinuous functions has recently received
considerable additions from a young analyst of the highest pro
mise, Mr. Murphy, of Caius College, Cambridge. In an admi
rable memoir on the Inverse Method of Definite Integrals *, he

has given general methods for representing discontinuous func
tions, of one or a greater number of breaks, by means which are
more directly applicable to the circumstances under which they
present themselves in physical problems than those which have
fbeen proposed by Fourier, Poisson, and Libri. Mr. Murphy

had already, in a previous memoir , given a most remarkable
extension to the theory of the application of Lagrange's theo
rem to the expression of the least root of an equation, which
we shall   have occasion to notice hereafter ; and he has shown
           (x) be an integral function of x then the coefficient of
that if p

-- in the developement of -- log ^-- will represent the least

 ·T 3*

root of the equation <px = 0. We thus find that the least
of the two quantities a and /3 will be represented by the coeffi

cient of -- in the series for log                            <-± -- , which is

and if we replace               «    and    /S  by  --  and  -ps-,  the  least  of the       two

                                                     a

quantities -- and -^-, or the greatest of the two quantities a and

will be represented by
/3,

      Jtj
db +                            i-rri·                                                       &c- <*>*

                                 ("-J-*)3
                                          a                  (*-±-*)fl

                                                +
                                                         /:3 S,

                                                                               

                                                                           d

                                                                                          s

                                                                                 is
                                                                                     0
                                                                                         ,+
* Tramactions of the Philosophical Society of Cambridge, vol. iv. p. 374.
Ibid.      p. 125.
           represent
If we
.t                              the series  (2.) by     we shall get

    X                                    dTL&           _=-LorO,
                            is  (--  l)»-i r(«)     da"-1    a*

according as a greater or less than                     thus ----%-- would represent the at

traction within and without spherical shell, which                       or -- where «       is

the distance from the centre.                       s2
200 THIRD REPORT-- 1S33. /

   Thus, if y -- a. x -- /3 = 0 and y --a x -- = be the equa-
                                                                                /3'

                                                                                      0

                                          b o.
      B                                                                /»

                          A                                              a

                        B
                              C

                                                    p
tions of two lines                        and D C, forming triangle with a por
tion D of the axis of x, then the system of lines which they

form  will  be(yex-p«re*ss-ed/3b)y(tyhe-               product

                                                        «'*-|3')=               0.            (3.)

Now         obvious that                                                              M, M' be
      it                                           common ordinates                 PP   P
          is                                                                                 P

                           if if
BCD;drawn to the two lines, the least of them will belong to the sides
of the triangle                                    we denote, therefore, M and M'

by yx and yv the equation

+Li,_ y»yg                                (yt y8)g       1.1.3 -r-vd/i^tf

will become the equation of the sides of the triangle BCD,
when y, and yi are replaced by their values for will denote
   M for one side and m for the other.                                       ;
   InSPorder to express                   it p     discontinuous function p, which as
      a the successive forms                                                   +S
sumes      y                                    a   <pv p2, f3, &c, for different values
                                                                                  Z\ y
                  (S

                                  8,
of variable which involves between the limits a and
                                                                                              S
                                                                                                       /3,
                                                                                                                /3
and y, and &c, Mr. Murphy assumes (a, z), (jS, s),

   (y, «), &c, to denote the coefficient of -- in the several series

for

          -£ ^log + *\(* +                *\        log  <*          +                   &c,

                                                                        ®}X

and supposes

     -/. ·
t                                         -/< ·                        +* · -#->·             *<·
                                      *>                                                      </, ;?) 
                                                                                                  p'
   If « be less than 2or2 greater than a, then (a, = a,
                                                         ---be less than z, then1,
and therefore a--a ^ =
   1                                                                                  S
     :                                                                 y' "

       if                                                            ay

             '

                                                                 1
                                                                    :

                                   if

                                                           0
                                                                   ,
=           y be less than z, then                                     '     =      and so on; con-
           REPORT ON CERTAIN BRANCHES OF ANALYSIS.                              261

fsequently, in the first case we have p = fx = , :

in the second,
<p =/, +/2 = fa, and therefore /2 = f9 -- f, :

in the third,                                            <pa.

   -P =/i +/2 +/3 = ?3, and therefore f3 = f3
It appears therefore that

m d S («, ») ,                     ,, . rf S (0, *) , .  , d S (y, *) 0

is a formula which is competent to express all the required
conditions of discontinuity *.

   Equivalent forms may be considered as permanent within
the limits of continuity, and no further, unless the requisite
signs of discontinuity, whether implicit or explicit, exist upon
both sides of the sign = : thus, the equation

'Dj1 cosx  =  --4, r  j--2.35°sin  2  x  +T3^--.45s°siun4"a"r +'5--.67^'sin6x+       t

                  J                                                             &c.

is permanent within the limits indicated by the sign *D,° and
no further, and similarly in most of the cases which have been
considered above. The imprudent extension of such equivalent
forms, which has arisen from the omission of the necessary
signs of discontinuity, has frequently led to very erroneous
conclusions : thus, the equation

'D,,° log     1 fx2

which is true for all values of x between 0 and oo , has been
extended to all values of x between -- oo and + oo , and has
thus been made the foundation of an argument for the identity
of the logarithms of the same number, both when positive and

negative.

   There are two species of discontinuity which we have consi
dered above, one of which may be called instantaneous and the
other finite : the first generally accompanies such changes of
form as are consequent upon the introduction of critical values

    * These formulae would require generally a correction at their limits, in
order to render them symbolically general. The nature of these corrections
may in most cases be easily applied from the observations which we have
made above.

   T This series is given by M. Bouvier in the 14th volume of Gcrgonnc's
Annates ilea Mathematigues. The conclusion referred to in the text assumes
the identity of the logarithms of & and of (-- x)', which is in fact the whole
question in dispute.
262                      THIRD REPORT 1833.

of the variables, when the corresponding equivalent form no
longer exists, or when the conditions which determined its exist
ence no longer apply ; the second restricts the existence of the
                                  of the variable which have a finite dif
equivalent form to limits
ference from each other.          In neither case, if we suppose the con
ditions of the discontinuity to be implicitly involved, or if we
suppose the explicit signs of discontinuity to be assumed con
formably to the general laws of algebra,                           can we consider the
law of the permanence of equivalent forms
                                                                   to be violated. It is
only when a continuous formula is assumed to be equivalent to
a discontinuous formula, without the introduction of the requi
site sign of discontinuity to limit the extent of the continuous

formula, that we can suppose this fundamental law to be vio

lated or the asserted equation between such expressions to be
false. Many important errors have been introduced into ana
lysis from the neglect of those conditions.
The identity of the values of powers of 1, whose indices
are general whole numbers, and also of the sines and cosines
of angles which differ from each other by integral multiples of
360°, is a frequent source of error in the generalization of equi
valent forms, when the symbols                   wnuhmicbheresx. preAss      those indices or
multiples are no longer whole                                               very remarkable
example of both these sources of error has occurred in the for

mula

-A -(2 cos x)m = cos m (2 r % + x) + m cos (m -- 2) (2 r * + x),_
            +   m    (m----5--I)  cos  ,         ..         r  it  +     .  +  &D c.
                                       (m        4)     (2
                                                                      x)

     --^ -+ */^-i {sin m (2r* + x) + m sin (m -- 2) (2 r * + x)

      r+ sin (m 4) (2 r + «) + &c. (1 .)
If we suppose m to be a whole number, this equation degene
rates into
                                                                                    ----1)'
      --(fa2
           cos   v.  =  cos  mx   +    m   cos   /      --     a\  x  -i    m (^m=   ^
                                                 (m            2)
                x)m

                        cos (m -- 4) x + &c.                                                 (2.)

the series first discovered by Euler, and which he assumed to
be true for all values of m. If, however, we should suppose m

to be a fraction of the form *-» we should have q values of
                                              9
the first  member    of  the      equation       (2.),  and    only   one      of the  second.

And if     we should confine our attention to the arithmetical
value (t>) of the first, it would not be equal to the second, un
           REPORT ON CERTAIN BRANCHES OF ANALYSIS.                                      263

less m was a whole number ; for if we should denote the series
of cosines
 cos (m 2 r it + x) + m cos (m -- 2) (2r it + x) + &c, by Cr,
and the series of sines

  sin m (2 r it + x) + m sin (m -- 2) (2 r it + x) + &c, by Sr,

we should find, when cos x is positive,

               _ _Cr Sr

                    * cos 2 to r v sin 2 m r w '

and when cos x is negative,

                     cos m    Cr  +    \)v ~                        Sr       +  1) * "

                             (2r                         sin to (2 r

It will follow, therefore, that when r is not a whole number, p
will be expressible indifferently by a series of cosines or of
sines, unless cos 2 m r it = 0 or sin 2 to r * =' 0, when cos x is
positive, or cos m (2 r + 1) * = 0, or sin to (2 r + 1) it = 0,
when cos x is negative.

   In a similar manner, assuming

     x'=1-i-2-C08^ + T^i5C08^

and                           x · 3S · · O

                     1.2.3X = M "< COS X -- T ;=-- COSJ tf
                                                            (» (r2j
                       +  1.2.3.4.5 C0S * &C-J                        g-'
we shall find
                             ff        = cos n                        g.+ -^-jir.X
                   cos »
                   nr
                        (r2+ cos --                      + -y- * X'.

If we suppose                      (« +
                                      x)
                cos
                                                     1)

                                          \r2
                          to be equal to zero, this equation will become
                                                                         -- l)«r Xv',,
                     x    =  cos  nit  .  X+             cos                    .
                                  -g-

which the form which has been erroneously assigned by La* isf
grange and Lacroix as generally true for all values of ».

   Many other examples of similar undulating functions, ex-

           * Calcul des Fonctions, chap. xi.                             i.  p. 264.
              Traite du Calcul Dig. et lnleg., torn.
           t
2G4 THIRD REPORT -- 1833.

pressing the various relations between the cosines and sines of
multiple arcs and the powers of simple arcs,     *wahnedthoetrhaesrcwenridteinrsg
or descending, have been given by Lagrange
as general, which are either degenerate forms of the correct

and more comprehensive equations, or altogether erroneous.
Poisson had pointed out some of the inconsistencies to which
some of these imperfect equations lead, and had slightly hinted
at their cause and their explanation ; and the discussion of such
fcases became soon afterwards a favourite subject of speculation

with many writers in the Mathematical Journals of France and
Germany %    ; but the    complete   theory and  correction of these
expressions   was first  given by   M. Poinsot
                                                 in an admirable me
moir which was read to the Academy of Sciences of Paris in
1823, and published in 1825. They form a most remarkable
example of expressions extremely simple and elementary in
their nature, which have escaped from the review and analysis

of the greatest of modern analysts, in forms which were not
merely imperfect, but in some cases absolutely erroneous.
The difficulties which have presented themselves in the
theory of the logarithms of negative numbers, as compared with
Ifthose of the same numbers with a positive sign, have had a
very similar origin.      we  vcaolunessi,daenr d tihfewesigtrnasceofthqeumantthitrioesughas

factorsof their arithmetical
out the whole course of the changes which they undergo, we
shall find many examples of results which are identical when
considered in their final equivalent forms, but which are not
in every respect identical when considered with respect to their

derivation: thus ( + a)2 is identical with ( -- a)*, when consi

dered in their common result + a2, but not when considered
with respect to their derivation. Let us now consider their se
veral logarithms, the common arithmetical value of the logarithm
of a being denoted by p :

log(+a)2 = log(J)2«2 = 4rrf </~l + 2p                          (1.)
                                                               (2.)
(- (- \/~llog af = log l)9 a2 = (2r + 1) 2 *     + 2p

log a2 = log 1 . a- = 2 r it */ ^T + 2 p                       <3.)

It thus appears that the  values     of  log  ( + a)2 and log  ( -- a)9 are
                                         but  not conversely   ; and also
included amongst those    of log    a2,
that the values of log (+ a)2 ana" log(-- a)2, the arithmetical
value being excepted, are not included in each other.

· Correspondence sur I'Kcole Polytechnique, torn. ii. p. 212.
+ In Gergonnc's Annates des Muthcmatiqties, torn. xiv. xv. xvi. xvii.

J In Crelle's Journal fur die reine und angewandte Mathemalik. Berlin.
REPORT ON CERTAIN BRANCHES OF ANALYSIS.                                  265

 - _Again, if we consider --

we shall get
                            am as originating                from  (--  1) ( + a)m,

log             ram = (2 r + 2 m  *+ 1)                  <S  1 + mp * .

if we suppose m =--,t· = 0 and r' = -- 1, we shall get

            - ylog a/ a = -£- p =     log a = log >/ a ;

or the logarithm of a negative quantity will be identical with
the logarithm of the same quantity with a positive sign. In a

similar manner, if we suppose m = &^--ft , where p is prime to n,

r> -- -- n and r = p ~ , then 2r + 2mr'+l=0, and the

corresponding logarithm of -- am will coincide with the arith
metical logarithm of am. We should thus obtain possible loga
rithms of negative numbers in those cases in which we should

fbe prepared to expect them from the ordinary definition of
logarithms.

   In the absence of all knowledge of the specific process of de
rivation of quantities, such as am and -- am, we should consider
twhheeirrelogAariisthtmhes  as identical with those  of  lm. A and  (-- 1) 1 m. A,
                            arithmetical value of
                                                     am  : and in   considering

the different orders of logarithms which correspond to the same
value of am or of -- am, they will be found to differ from each
other by the                of 1TM and                       lm only, which are
                logarithms  2mr/+ 1)    (--              1)  1 respectively. The
2mr* >/ -- 1
                and (2r +               #V               --

Iflogarithms in question are Napierian logarithms whose base is e.
    we should suppose the logarithms to be calculated to any
other base, we should replace the Napierian logarithms of lm
and (-- 1)  l»  by the logarithms of
multiplied      the modulus M : the   those               quantities (or signs)
            by                        same               remarks will apply to
such logarithms which have been made with respect to Na

pierian logarithms.
   The question of the identity of the logarithms of the same
number, whether positive or negative, was agitated between
Leibnitz and Bernoulli, between Euler and D'Alembert, and
has been frequently resumed in later times. The arguments in

    · Peacock's Algebra, p. 569.

   t The logarithm being defined to be the index of the power of a given base
which is equal to a given number, it would follow, since ai = + n, that--

is equally the logarithm of + n and -- n. The same remark applies to all in
dices or logarithms which are rational fractions with even denominators.
266 THIRD REPORT-- 1833.

favour of the affirmative of this proposition, which were for the
most part founded upon the analytical interpretation of the pro
perties of the hyperbola and logarithmic curve, were not en
titled to much consideration, in as much as they were not drawn
from an analysis of the course followed in the derivation of the
                                                                                    of
symbolical expressions themselves and from the principles
interpretation which those laws of derivation authorized.                           A
very slight examination of those principles, combined with a re
ference to those upon which algebraical signs of affection are in
troduced, will readily show the whole of the very limited num
ber of cases in which such a proposition can be considered to
be true *.

· In the 15th volume of the Annates des Mathematiques of Gergonne, there
is an ingenious paper by M. Vincent on the construction of the logarithmic
and other congenerous transcendental curves. Thus, if y = e* there will be in
the plane of x y a continuous branch such as is commonly considered, and a
discontinuous branch corresponding to those negative values of y which arise
from values   of x,                                                   wxit=h
minators :   thus,   which   are expressible by rational   fractions          even  deno
                             suppose the line between                         1 to  be di
                     if we                                x = 0 and
vided into an even number 2y of parts, (where p is an odd number,) the
values of x will form a series of fractions,

                     o 2Ip.  JL  ±   2        2p~1        i
                                     p           2p
                             p   2p

Ifwhich have alternately odd and even denominators, and which correspond
therefore to values of y which are alternately single and double.             we may
suppose, therefore, a curve to be composed of the successive apposition of
points, the complete logarithmic curve will consist of two symmetrical
branches, one above and the other below the axis of x, one of which, in cor
responding parts of the curve, will have double the number of points with the
other. The inferior curve, therefore, may in this sense be considered as dis
continuous, being composed of an infinite number of conjugate points, forming,
in the language of M. Vincent, une branche pointilUe. 'I he same remark ap
plies to other exponential curves, such as the catenary, &c.

   It was objected to this theory of M. Vincent by M. Stein, another writer
in the same journal, that every fractional index in this interval might be con
verted into an equivalent fraction with an even denominator, which would
give a double possible value of the ordinate, which would be different from
that given by the fractional index in its lowest terms ; and that consequently
there would necessarily be a double ordinate for every point of the axis, and
therefore also a double number, one positive and the other negative, corre
sponding to every logarithm. In reply to this objection, it is merely neces-
                                 m mp                     m mp

sary to observe that the values of a" and anp or of 1" and 1"* are in every
respect identical with each other, the n p values in the second case consisting
merely of p periodical repetitions of those in the first.

   In a paper in the Philosophical Transactions for 1829, Mr. Graves has given
a very elaborate analysis of logarithmic formulae, and has arrived at some
conclusions of great generality which it is difficult to reconcile with those
which have been commonly received . Amongst some others may be men
tioned the formula which he has given for the Napierian logarithms of 1,
     REPORT ON CERTAIN BRANCHES OF ANALYSIS.                                                       267

Convergence and Divergency of Series. --The subject of di
vergent series, their origin, their interpretation and their use
in analysis, is one of great importance and great difficulty, and
                                     to be the occasion of much controversy
has  bdeoeunbta.ndI      continues   it necessary, for such reasons, to notice
and                      shall feel

Ifit somewhat in detail.

       the operations of algebra be considered as general, and
the symbols which are subject to them as unlimited in value,
it will be impossible to avoid the formation of divergent as

well as of convergent series : and if such series be consi
dered as the results of operations which are definable, apart
from the series themselves, then it will not be very important
to enter into such an examination of the relation of the arith
metical values of the successive terms as may be necessary to
ascertain their convergency or divergency ; for, under such

circumstances, they must be considered as equivalent forms
representing their generating function, and as possessing, for
tifhethpeuyrproesseuslt  of such operations,  equivalent properties. Thus,
                          from the division   of the numerator of an alge

braical fraction by its denominator, then they will produce the

numerator when multiplied into the denominator or divisor : if
they result from the extraction of the square or cube root of
an algebraical expression, then their square or cube will pro
duce that expression ; and similarly in other cases, no regard

2nwhich is not 2rir v,-- l, but --7           7-^C, which, though it includes the

former, is not included by it. It appears to me, however, that there exists a
fundamental error in the attempt which has been made by Mr. Graves to
generalize the ordinary logarithmic formulae upon the same principles which
have been applied by Poinsot to the generalization of the trigonometrical series
which have been noticed in the text. He assumes /(#) = cos 6 + */~^\ sin 6

/= e
     and makes the series for/(0) and/ (8), combined with the equa
tion/ [x t) = a value of/ {$)*, and therefore/-1 6 = 2 r «· + 6, the foun
dation of his logarithmic developements : in other words, he makes e "* ~ a
periodic quantity the base of his system of logarithms, an assumption which
2n+<is essential to the truth of the formula/-1/ 6 =
                                                             and to the gene
ralization of the series for/-1 6 by means of it; an hypothesis which is al
together at variance with our notions of logarithms as ascertained by the ordi
nary definition. The logarithms of + 1 and of (+ 1)OT alone, for very obvious
reasons, can be considered as possessing such a character.

   Though I have felt myself called upon to state my objections to the fun
damental principle assumed in this memoir of Mr. Graves, and consequently
                                     it
                                           is

                                                                        it,
                                                                             I
                                                                                               it
to many of the conclusions which are founded upon  yet think right at
the same time to observe that displays great skill and ingenuity in the con
duct of the investigations, and      accompanied by many valuable and ori
ginal observations upon the general principles of analysis.
                          THIRD REPORT -- 1833.

being paid in such cases to terms which are at an infinite di
staIntceisfrthoims   the  origin.
                    last  condition,  which,  though quite          indispensable,
is rather calculated to offend our popular notions of the values
of series as exhibited in their sums. We speak of series as
having sums when the arithmetical values of their terms are
considered, and when the actual expression for the sum of n
terms does not become infinite when n is infinite, or when, in
the absence of such an explicit expression, we can show from
other considerations that its value is finite. In all other cases
                                                                               di
the series, arithmetically            speaking,  may  be considered        as  be
vergent, and therefore as             having no  sum                     sum
                                                      *, if the word

used in an arithmetical sense only, as distinguished from gene
rating function.

  inWe are in the habit of considering quantities which are
finitely great and infinitely little as very differently circum
stanced with respect to their relation to finite magnitude. We
at once identify the latter with zero, of which we are accus

tomed to speak as if it had a real existence ; but if we subject

our ideas of zero and infinity to a more accurate analysis, we
shall find that it is equally impossible for us to conceive either
one or the other as a real state of existence to which a mag
nitude can attain or through which it can pass. But it is the
relation which magnitudes in their finite and conceivable state
still bear to other magnitudes in their course of continued in
crease or continued diminution, which enables us to consider
their symbolical relations when they cease to be finite ; and
whilst quantities infinitely little are neglected as being absorbed
in a finite magnitude, so likewise finite magnitudes are consi
dered as being absorbed in infinity, and therefore neglected
when considered with relation          to it.       The principle,       therefore,
                                      finite                              origin, in
of neglecting terms beyond a                     distance from the
converging series, is both safe and intelligible, whilst the case is
very different with respect to the neglect of similar terms in a
diverging series. Of such series it is said that they have no
arithmetical sum ; but it may be said in the same sense of all
algebraical series involving general symbols that they have no
sum. But it is not the business of symbolical algebra to deal
with arithmetical values, but with symbolical results only ; and
such series must be considered with reference to the functions
which generate them, and the laws of the operations employed
for that purpose. The neglect, therefore, of terms beyond a

   · This would appear    Cauchy's    view of  the  subject  : see  the  6th chapter
of his Cours d'Analyse.
                   REPORT ON CERTAIN BRANCHES OF ANALYSIS.                                    269

finite distance from the origin would be perfectly safe as far as
it does not influence the determination of the series from the

generating function, or the generating function from the series ;
and it is upon this principle that the practice is both founded

and justified. A few examples may make this reasoning more

plain.
   Let it be required to determine the function which generates

the series           a + a x + ax* + ax9 + &c.

                                                                                              (1.)

   Let s be taken to represent this function, and therefore

                   s = a + ax + ax* + ax3 + &c.
                     = a + x{a + ax + ax* + ax3 + &c.}

                     = a + x s : consequently

                     a

                     1 -- x'

   If the arithmetical values of the terms of this series be con

                                                           1 ,----

                                                                      is
sidered, and if x be less than 1, then -- x the sum of the
        :'
series in all other cases                           its generating function.
                                           it
                                               is
                                                   *
   We may consider, however, (whether                      it         expresses sum ora
   generating function) as identical with »,,
a                                                                     si, s3, &c, in the

several expressions

                     =a x
     if if           +
               ssss
                               «,

                     = a + ax + x*s9
                     = a + ax + ax^ + x^SQ
                     = a + ax axi + . . a xTM~1 + xm sm:
                                       +              .
for                the number      of  terms         of the series    s3b,eae.x.p.resmsseads   by n
and                n be infinite,                ;mustconsider sv -s2,s                       abso
                                   we
                                                                         It

                                                                                    is
lutely identical expressions for otherwise we must consider an
minfuinstiteceaassepotsosesresignagrdthienfpinriotpieesrtwieisthoffianniteabdsoiflfuetreencneusmbaesr,idaennd
tical quantities when compared with each other.                                         for this

reason that we assume as a principle that no regard must be
                                       it

paid to terms at an infinite distance from the origin, whatever
their arithmetical values may be.
   The sum of the series

                                   a -- a a -- a &c.
                                       :

                                          +
                                                        +
was assigned by Leibnitz, upon very singular metaphysical

considerations, to be                      the principle just stated would allow

us to put
270                               THIRD REPORT-- 1833.

                     s = a -- (a -- a + a -- a + &c.)
                       = a -- * ; and therefore s = -77*.

· The same principle would show that the equation

                     x=za+f(a+f(a+f(a + ...)))

/(*);ia identical with the equation

                                      *=a +

and that

is identical with              * = «/(«/ («/ (a...)))

                                          * = af(x).
The example in the text is the most simple case of a class of periodic series,
the determination of whose sums to infinity has been the occasion of much
controversy and of many curious researches. The general property of such
...series is the perpetual recurrence of the same
equal   to zero   :   thus, if there should                 be p terms    group of terms whose sum is
        terms    n   = m p + their sum                       would be     in each group, and if the num
ber of                      ;                                             identical with that of the first
                                     t-,                                                                                 i

                                    if                                                                                               t
terms of the series and we should denote those terms by a,, a^,                                                          a.

and we should take the successive values of this sum for all the values of
     if

              1
between and inclusive, their aggregate value would be represented by
                     Pp

                                                        1)
                        a\ + (P --                          <h + (P --    2) 2)             a, + . . . dp,

of which the average (A) or mean would be represented by
                        Q\ + (P --                          --Oj + (P --
                     P                                                           as + . .       .
                                                                                                      ap
                                                     1)

If this periodic series was continued to infinity, was contended by Daniel
                                                                                            it

Bernoulli, in memoirs in the 17th and 18th volumes of Novi Commentarii
Pelropolitani, for 1772 and 1773, that its sum would be correctly represented
by the average (A), in as much as was equally probable that any one of
the values would be the true one. Upon this principle would follow,1 it
     p                                                                                                      it
12...that of the apparently identical series                                                                          3
                     1  --+--1    11  +                         -- &c.

                     1+0--                 111              0-- + + &c. ·--
                     1+0 0--                                      1
                                            +++
                                                                    +

                                                                           1
                                                                                     1
                               +                            1+0 0-- + &C.

the first would be equal to -- the second to -- and the third to -- . In the
                                      ,                                   ,

same manner we should find

                 +----                    + -- -- +, &c.
          1 1, 1

             +

                    1
                              1
                                       11

                                 +

                                                  11

                                       +

                                                           11

                                              +

                                                                      1
                                                                                1
                                                                                         1
equal to         and                                            1+0-- -- 1+1 + 1+ &c.

                    1+0-- --

equal to -- . The same observations would apply to the series

                            cos x cos x cos x cos x &c.
          is 1                            2                 +     33

and          +                                                          0+
                                                                              +
                     1
                                                                                      4
                    +
                           +                                                          4+
                                                                                                +
                                  0cos xcos x + cos x +                                         cos x &c.
                                          2
                                ++          2
where x commensurable with «·.
   These conclusions, however, though curious and probable, rested upon no
        REPORT ON CERTAIN BRANCHES OF ANALYSIS.                         271

  If we consider this principle of the identity of series, whose

terms within a finite distance from the origin are identical, as
established, we shall experience no difficulty in admitting the
perfect algebraical equivalence of such series, and their gene-

secure basis founded upon the general principles of analysis, and their truth
was not, therefore, generally admitted amongst mathematicians. In the year
1798, Callet, the author of the logarithmic tables which go by his name, pre
sented a memoir to the Institute for the purpose of showing that the sums
of such periodic series                                    thus,  if we divide 1 by
1 + x and subsequently   were     really indeterminate  :
                         make
                                  x = 1, we get

                         1 -- 1 + 1 -- 1 + &C                           (1.)

the value of which is -- . In a similar manner, if we divide 1 + * by

1 + x + it', we get for the quotient
                            1 -- x* + x3 -- x* + x> -- *» + fee,

which becomes the same series (l.)» though the value of the generating func-
tion under the same circumstances becomes --2 . The same remark applies

to the  result of  the division of 1 +    x + x* + . . xm by 1    + * + *» + . . x",
which                                     when x = 1, though
        produces    the same series (1.)                          under such circum

stances its generating function becomes -- .

   This memoir of Callet gave occasion to a most elegant Report upon this
delicate point of analysis by Lagrange, who justified upon very simple prin
ciples the conclusion of Daniel Bernoulli. The series which results from the
division of 1 + x by 1 + x + x2, if the deficient terms be replaced, becomes

     1+0.* -- *" + *· + 0 . x« -- x* + x> + 0 .x* -- x* + &c,

which degenerates, when x = 1, into the series
                   1+0--1 + 1+0--1 + 1 + &c,

and not into the series (1.). The same remark applies to the series which
                                             7. . xm by 1 + x + . . . . x", n m ;
arises  from the   division of 1  +  x    +
which   becomes,   when x = 1,

1+0 + 0 + 0 + &c. -- 1+0 + 0 + &c. +1+0 + &c,

which is equal, by Bernoulli's rule, to -- .

   But it is not necessary to resort to this expedient for the purpose  of deter
mining the sums of such series ; for the series

        a, + asj! + o,x3+                 . .apxp~1 +alxp+ &c.

is a recurring series resulting from the developement of

                   a, + os x + a3 x1 + . . a xp_I

                               1-x*

which becomes -- when * = 1. If we replace x by -- , this fraction will

become
272 THIRD REPORT -- 1833.

rating functions. For the same principle would justify us in
rejecting remainders after an infinite number of terms, whatever
their arithmetical values may be ; for such remainders can in
fluence no terms at a finite distance from the origin, and there
fore can in no respect affect any reverse operation, by which
it may be    reuqpuoinretdhetogepnaesrsatinfrgomfunthcetionse. riesThtousa, niyf
dependent                                                                         expression

                   = a + ax + axi + &c

                     1

we shall get
                      a -- (1 -- x) s = a,

if we reject remainders after an infinite number of terms ; and

similarly in other cases. It would thus appear that algebraical
equivalence is not necessarily dependent upon the arithmetical
equality of the series and its generating function.

   It is, however, an inquiry of the utmost importance to be able

to ascertain when this arithmetical equality exists ; or, in other
words, to ascertain under what circumstances we can determine
the sum of the series, either from our knowledge of the law of
formation of its successive terms, or approximate, to any required

             <z, zp + o2 s'-1 + . . a z

which becomes by the application of the ordinary rule of the differential cal
culus, when z = 1 or x = 1,

                            P ai + (p -- 1) o9 + . . a

                                                    P

which is the average or mean value determined by Bernoulli's rule.
   The discussion of the values of these periodic series has been resumed by

Poisson in the twelfth volume of the Journal de I'Ecole Poly technique. He
considers them as the limits of these series when considered as converging
series, a view of their origin and meaning which is almost entirely coincident
with that of Lagrange. Thus, the sum of the series

             sin q + p sin (x + q) + P2 sin (2 x + q) + &c.

is equal to  sin                  (x -- q)
                                  x + p*
                1   q  +  p  sin            '
                          p  cos
                   --  2

when p is less than 1, an expression which degenerates,          when p = 1, into

                              --1 sin q +, --1 cos q cot. --* ,

which may be considered, therefore, as the limit of the sum of the series
               sin q + sin (x -f q) + sin (2 x + q) + &c. ininfin.
           REPORT ON CERTAIN BRANCHES OF ANALYSIS.                                        273

degree of accuracy, to its value by the aggregation of a finite
number of those terms. Many tests of the summability of series
(considered as different from the determination of their gene
rating functions,) have been proposed, possessing very different
degrees of certainty and applicability. The geometrical series
which we have just been considering is convergent or divergent,
that is, summable or not, according as x is greater or less than 1 ;
and it is convenient, for this and for other reasons, to assume it
Ifas the measure of the convergency or divergency of other series.

   it can be shown that a converging geometrical series can be
formed whose terms within a finite and assignable distance from

the origin become severally greater than those corresponding
Atondtheimf itocfanthebeasshsoigwnnedthasteraiesd,ivethrgenentthagteosmeeritersic
                                                                                   is convergent.
                                                                                    series can be

formed whose terms within a finite and assignable distance from

the origin are severally less than those corresponding to them
of the assigned series, then that series is divergent*. Such
tests are certain, as far as they are applicable ; but there may
be many cases, both of divergent and convergent series, which

theIyt     are not sufficiently delicate to comprehend.                                   that di
           would appear from the preceding observations

verging series have no arithmetical sums, and consequently

· Peacock's Algebra, Art. 324, and following. Cauchy, Court d 'Analyse
Algebrique, chap. vi. This last work contains the most complete examination
of the tests of convergency with which I am acquainted.

   The measure of convergency mentioned in the text, which was first sug
                        hy D'Alembert, will immediately lead to               the following :
ges"teIdf  and applied                                                        (or will become  so)
           u represent   the n" term of a series, it is convergent

                                                          \_

if the superior limit of («,)" he less than 1, when n is infinite; divergent in

Ifthe"contrary case."   the  ratio  u% , , to t/,,          be less than  1,  the series  is convergent,
          the limit of

and divergent in the contrary case."
   Many other consequences of these and other tests are mentioned by Cauchy
in the work above referred to.
IffolMlow. iLnoguitsesOt loivfiecor,nvienrgtehnecys.econd"volume of Crelle's Journal, has proposed the
                                                             the limit of the value of the product n un
be finite or zero when n is infinite, then the series is divergent in the first case,
and convergent in the second." This principle, however, though apparently
very simple and elementary, has been shown by Abel, in the same Journal, to
be not universally true. Thus, the series

           --·-2 log 2 + 3-log3 + 4 log 4 +                 + ^Tlogn + ' ' '

may be shown to be infinite, though the product n un is equal to zero when n is
infinite. The same acute and original analyst has shown that there is no func
tion of n whatever which multiplied into nn will produce a result which is zero

tor finite when n is infinite, according as the series is convergent or divergent.
    1833.
274 THIRD REPORT -- 1833.

admit of no arithmetical interpretation. And it will be after
wards made to appear that such series do not include in their
expression, at least in many cases, all the algebraical conditions
of their generating functions. Before we proceed, however, to
draw any inferences from this fact, it may be expedient in the
first instance to give a short analysis of some of the circum
stances in which such series originate.

   The series

                        1     ~      1  +    --b  +.  A2    &C-

              a        --  b                          -3 +

is convergent or divergent according as a is greater or less
than b. As this series is incapable, from its form, of receiving
a change of sign corresponding to a change in the relation of
              each other, it     would                            erroneous in the
a and   b to                     of any      evidently be         value, in as much
latter  case  if it admitted                 arithmetical

as it would then be equivalent to a quantity which is no longer
arithmetical. In this case, therefore, the series may be replaced
by the symbol oo , which is the proper sign of transition, (see
page 237,) which indicates a change in the constitution of the
generating function, of such a kind as to be incapable of being
expressed by the series which is otherwise equivalent to it.
The same observations apply to the equation

        /(«-A)a»\« = «,,»f|il-B._b+,                   n  (n --   \)     ._b,*

                                                          1_2

              _n{1n.-2\).(3n-J)               »       +           ->

                                             -            &C-J'

                                               o?

as  we have already    stated in our         remarks upon signs of transition,
                       be extremely
in  page 237. It will                         important, however, to examine,

both in this and in other cases, the circumstances which attend
the transition from generating functions to their equivalent
series, in as much as they will serve to explain some difficulties
which have caused considerable embarrassment.
    The two series                                                              /
           _ ff., ,21 1 . 2 6b ,. 3 b69*
                                                            4 6s                J-«
        (a-b) .2 L « o                                       «r

and     - _ F \f, W(A 1 af ~ 1

                              l  +,     2«   +,   3a!    +  4«3       +  .1

                                          b        4*                    &C-J

will be divergent in one case, and convergent in the other,
whatever be the relation of a and b, though they both equally
              REPORT ON CERTAIN BRANCHES OF ANALYSIS.                        275

-- -- --reprresent a-»* -- 2^ a b>--+---rf9r and o-,-*,, -- 2,, a br--+- ar,, which are alg°e-

braically, as well as arithmetically, equivalent to each other. It
might be contended, t'lei-ci'j.e, tliut in tins ii'3ta.<i.'e the sign oo ,
which replaces one of the two series, is no indication of a change
in the constitution of the generating function which is conse
quent upon a change of the sign of a -- b or b -- a. But
though a2 -- 2 a b + A2 is equal to (a -- ft)2, and b2 -- 2 a b + a2
to (b -- a)2 ; and though ar -- 2 a b + i2 is identical in value
and signification with i2 -- 2 a b + a2 when they are considered
without reference to their origin, yet we should not, on that
                                             -- frf          and (b -- a)2
                                               The           first is equal
(- -account, be justified in considering (a--            --                  as
              (b                                         (b                  to
algebraically identical with each other.
(+  l)a (a        6)s, and the second to     (-- l)9 (o      b)q ; or  the first
                                             to (+ l)2                 But the
to       1)«      -- of, and the second                         of.

signs (+ l)2 and (-- l)2 are not algebraically identical with each
other, though identical when considered in their common result,
in as much as their square and other roots and logarithms are

different from each other*. It follows, therefore, that there is

a symbolical change in the quantity denoted by -.                      -p^ in its

passage through    infinity, which is indicated by the infinite value
of the equivalent  series, in as much as it is not competent to ex
press, in its developed form, the algebraical change which its
generating function has undergone. The same remarks will
apply to the series for (a -- b)n and (b -- a)n, in all cases in
which » is a negative even number. When n is a negative odd
number, the change of constitution of the generating function
is manifest, and requires no explanation.
The two series

    a+b            aL      -&CAb 62 6s b*

                           a a' a" ar

fland                      a   +  a¥? ~      a?          aV¥4x-&c     }

      V\ -1                -b                ¥+

       b +a~ b

correspond to the same generating function, though one of
them is divergent, and the other convergent. But the divergent

series, whose terms are alternately positive and negative, cannot
be replaced by the symbol oo , in as much as it does not indicate

   · Thus, if a denote a   line, (+ o)s and  ( -- o)s can  only be     considered as
                           result o?. When    (+ a)3 and    ( -- o)J  are considered
identical in their common

with reference to each other, they are not identical quantities, though equal to

each other.                    T2
276                         THIRD REPORT 1833.

any change in the constitution of the generating function. They
may both of them, therefore, be considered as representing the
value of this function, though in one case only can we approxi
mate to its arithmetical value by the aggregation of any number
of its terms *.

   Similar observations would apply to the series

         (a + by -'-O + V + '-frTT1-?-*}
when n is not a positive whole number. In all such cases, the
developement will sooner or later become a series, whose terms
are alternately negative and positive, and which will be di
vergent or convergent, according to the relation of a and b to
                "Mtohraet              we might assume it as a general
each other.                 generally   series which correspond to no
proposition,                divergent
change in the constitution of the generating function, will have
their    terms or groups         "otfhatetrmdisveraglteenrtnasteelryiespwoshitiicvhe
tive :"   and conversely,                                                              and nega
                                                                                      correspond
to a change in the constitution of the generating function, will
have all their terms or groups of terms affected with the same
sign, whether + or -- , and the whole series may be replaced

by the symbol oo ."
   In both these propositions the change of which we speak is
that which corresponds to those values of the symbols which

convert the equivalent series from convergency to divergency,

Iand conversely.

     am not aware of any proof of the truth of these important
propositions which is more general than that which is derived
from an induction founded upon an examination of particular
cases. But such or similar conclusions might be naturally ex
Ifpected to follow from the fundamental principles and assump
tions of symbolical algebra.           the rules of algebra be perfectly
general, all symbolical conclusions which follow from them must
be equally true : and those rules have been so assumed, that
when the symbols of algebra represent arithmetical quantities,
the operations with the same names represent arithmetical
operations, and become symbolical only when the correspond

ing arithmetical operations are no longer possible. It will be
essential, therefore, to the perfection of algebraical language
that it should be competent to express fully its own limitations.

· The equations * =                    and s = -5-            -- will equally give us

i=   ----r  in  one  case,  and  *=  --a+;--br in the other,  whatever                be the relation

     a+b
of and b.
REPORT ON CERTAIN BRANCHES OF ANALYSIS.                           277

 Such limitations will be conveyed by the introduction of signs
of affection, of signs of transition, or of signs of discontinuity,
which may be involved either implicitly or explicitly. It is for
such reasons that all those signs must be considered in the
interpretation of algebraical formulae, and their occurrence will
at once suggest the necessity of such an examination of the
circumstances of their introduction as may be required for their
correct explanation*.

   We thus recognise two classes of diverging series, which are
distinct in their origin and in their representation. The first
may be considered as involving the symbol or sign oo implicitly,
and as capable, therefore, of the same interpretation as we give
to the sign when it presents itself explicitly. The second re
presents finite magnitudes, which in their existing form are
incapable of calculation by the aggregation of any number of
their terms. Such series are in many cases capable of trans
formations of form, which convert them into equivalent con
verging series ; and in some cases, where such a transformation
is not practicable, or is not effected, the approximate values of
the generating functions may be determined, from indirect con
siderations, supplied by very various expedients.

 fli-W+The well known transformation of the series

                      ci8 -dx* + e.r> --fa* + &c,

which Euler has given f, into the equivalent series

would be competent to convert a great number of divergent
series of the second class into equivalent convergent series, or
- -into such as would become so.         In this manner the Leibnitzian
                                         1 + &c.
series
                                 1 1+ 1

- - -may be shown to be equal to -^-. The series
                     1 3 + 6 10 + 15 21 + &c.

  * The essential character of arithmetical division is that the quotient should

approximate continually to its true value, and that the terms of the quotient
which are introduced hy each successive operation should be less and less con

tinually. In the formation, therefore, of the quotient of  r and                  .

the analogy between" the arithmetical and algebraical operation would cease to
exist, unless a was greater than b, or unless the several terms in the quotient
went on diminishing continually.

  t Itutitutionet Calculi Differenlialis, Pars posterior, cap. i.
278                THIRD KEPOHT 1833.

_ _ -of triangular numbers to -s-. The series
                         1 4 + 9 16 + 25 &c.

of square numbers to 0. The series of tabular logarithms

             log 2 -- log 3 + log 4 -- log 5 + &c,

Ifwould be found to be equal to -0980601 nearly.                   we should

suppose x    negative and    greater  than 1, the original         and   the
               series would  become    divergent series of         the  first
transformed

class.
- - - - IfThe series                              - If(a j-^ +, &« c.
If,,log a = (,«                   +^ (va-- g- J-
             1)    (a
                        g

is divergent when a is greater than 2, and convertible by Euler's
-1) -formula into the convergent
{a           1 («      1)«        -Ifseries       -I (a If              &.

     U ~«                         1 (a            4' O*
                                  3«

or by the method of Lagrange into the series
        - - - -(*-· (*a 1) -| (*« l)2 + |-
                                                     l)3 &c,

which may be made to possess any required degree of con-
vergency. But it is not necessary to produce further examples
of such transformations, which embrace a very great part of the
most refined artifices which have been employed in analysis.
     One of the most remarkable of these artifices presents itself
r(lin a series to which Legendre has given the name of demicon-
vergent*. The factorial function      + x) is expressed by the
continuous expression

                       (-^) 'hxxf R,

where R is a quantity whose Napierian logarithm is expressed
         BA
                                  +        C      ~  &c"
        1.2.*
                   3.4-.x*            5.6.x*

where A, B, C, &c, are the numbers of Bernoulli. The law of

formation of these numbers, as is well known, is extremely

             · Fonctions Ellipliquei, torn. ii. chap. ix. p. 425.
            REPORT ON CERTAIN BRANCHES OF ANALYSIS.                  279

irregular, and after the third term they increase with great
rapidity. The series under consideration, therefore, even for
considerable values of x, becomes divergent after a certain
number of terms. But an approximate value of the series will
be obtained from the aggregation of the convergent terms only:
and it has been proved by a German analyst* that the error
which is thus made in the value of the generating function will
in this case be less than the last of the convergent, or the first
of the divergent, terms.

  It has been usual amongst some later mathematicians of the
highest rank to denominate diverging series, without any di
stinction of their class, as false, not merely when arithmetical
values are considered, but also when employed as equivalent
forms, in purely symbolical processes. The view of their ori
gin and nature which we have taken above would explain the
sense in which they might be so considered in relation both to
arithmetical processes and to the calculation of arithmetical

values. It seems, however, an abuse of terms to apply the term
false to any results which necessarily follow from the laws of
algebra. M. Poisson, perhaps the most illustrious of living
analysts, has referred, in confirmation of this opinion, to some
examples of erroneous conclusions produced through the me
fdium of divergent                                       is one of
                     dif;ficaunldtya, sI  the question
importance and of                         shall venture   to notice
            series                                                   great
            great                                                    them

in detail.
Let it be required to express the value of

            =/:«+ i dx

                    {(l -2ax + a2)(1 -2bx + 62)}*
by means of

 -2 -Assuming
            series.      ax + «2)-*       and K' = (1      2bx + 6*)-*,

            K = (l       developed        according to   ascending and
Klet us suppose and  K'
descending powers of a and b respectively ; or,

JK = 1 + a X, + a«X9 t a3 X3 + &c.
I lxiIK' = 1 + b X, + ft2 X2 + bP X3 + &c.
            K=J- + ^Xl +                  + ^X3+&c.

            K' = -£- + ^2 X, + p-X2 + jfX,+ &c.

   · Erchinger in Schrader's Commentatio de Summaiionc  Seriei, SfC. Weimar
1818.

  f Journal dt I'Ecolt Polyttchnique, torn. xii.
280                      THIRD REPORT 1833.

The coefficients X,, Xa, X8, &c, are reciprocal* functions, po»-
/sessing the following remarkable property, that
                                                                                                            Xm Xndx

/= 0, in all cases, unless n = m, in which case                                                             XnXnd x

~         1  V

   2n +
   The knowledge of this property will readily enable us to de
termine the following four different values of ar :

                              a ! b*
                 T -T1 +                    a3 b3                                                   &c.
                         +            5~ +
                                                                                                 +

             T*a =1         a         a*    +   a3                                               +  &c.
                      ++
                  b                            lb*
                           3~J3

                 1    +  3 a* +        6*   +    b3                                              +  &c.
                                      5 a3
                 a                             7o4

         ~4 --     1  +        1      +   5 «363                                              +     7 a4 b  + &c.

                 ab      3 a* b*

   Whatever be the relation of a and b to each other and to 1,
two of these four series are convergent, and two of them di
vergent. But it appears from the examination of the finite in-
/tegral
                 K K' d x, that one only of these two convergent

series gives the     correct  tvwaoluceonovfezr,gebnetingdevthealotpwemhiecnhtsariosfesKfraonmd
the combination      of the
cKoof'n,Kvwe',rhgoielrsnttcothndeveevirneselcolopyr.ermeceTtnhtvealoucfoenKcalurwissieiotsnh  from the combination of a

                                                                                              a divergent developement
                                                                                               which is drawn from this
Kfact is, that the introduction of the divergent developement of

   or of K' vitiates the corresponding value of a, even though
that value is expressed by a convergent series. Let us now
/ KR'rfiexamine how far the definite integral of
                                                                                                                   will jus

tify such an inference.

  If we denote K K' by -- , we shall easily find,

   · Functions which possess this property have been denominated reciprocal
functions by Mr. Murphy, in a second memoir on the Inverse Method of Defi
nite Integrals,  in the fifth volume   of the Transactions of the Philosophical Society
of Cambridge,    in which general     methods are given for discovering all species of

such functions, and where one very remarkable form of them is assigned. The
functions referred to in the text were first noticed by Legendre, in his first me
moir on the Attraction of Ellipsoids, and subsequently, at great length, in the
Fifth Part of his Exercices itit Calcul Integral. Cauchy has used the term rtcipro-
ee/ function in a different sense ; see Exercices des Mathematiques, torn. ii. p. 141.
         REPORT ON CERTAIN BRANCHES OF ANALYSIS.                                                                                     281

f-*T = ¥7Tbl0g ftn? + 2? >**) + const;
and if we denote by r and r1 the extreme                                                 values                   of p,     when
                                                                                                                                        *·
as -- 1 and x = + 1, we shall find,
r_ry_i+ 1dx_
                 ^            1       t                   C8ryg+4aft-(o + &)(! + pfl)7
                                                          C2rVa6-4aft-(a+ft)(H-aft)y
                      VaA
               i) d T)
-inasmuch  as^-£-       is   4a                           --          +                  a                         in one case, and
                                                                                                                  will appear like
                                                ft             (a        ft)
                                                                             (1
      o--             r* b)
                                                                                 +

                                                                                   It ft)

                                                                                                         +
                                                                                                                ,
·     6        (a            (1   + a in the other.
                   +                                      ft)
  4

wise that and will have the same sign, whether or --
         r

                    in--wteilgl rparteios--enr.v6e)I.4f,t)h;tehaethsnraeudmfsoeraeps,pigena=rt=shrtoh+uagtho++u--t
in as much as  p                                                                                                            the  whole
                                                                                                                                      a),
course of the                                                            if
                                                                                                                                       ft),
- - -then = +                                                                     r>
-then = --                                                                           r7
                                                                                                                  (1 (1 (1  a)

                                                                                                                                 (1

                                                                                                                                    +

    rr         (1 (1    a)        (1                                                                                        o)
                                                                                                                                 (1
                                                             It                                                                     +

                      a)                                         (1                                                         a)          6)
                                                                                                                                 (1
                           (1

must  have the      same     sign with +                                 a)       + b), and consequently
             and              we shall have,
if a                 7                                                        (1

    47

          * 1,
                 ft

                      6
                          (a (a
                              + 1,
                                           1)
                                                 (ft (ft
- - -z--                     -1)
=      Vo                                                             v^aft + 4a                                  +              + ab)
               log .                                           1) 1)     ft                                                      + ab)
                                                                                        ft b

                                                                                               (a
                                                                                                           ft) b)
                                                                                                       (J (1
                                                          +           ,/a 4a -'(a +

- -= T^/ab l0g- (V                    -- iy» (strikir,g out the common divisor
    2

       A

         1r
                 ft
                             ft

                      Z

                                   1, b) h

                                                                  1

                                                          ,

                                             r
                                                                                                    ft
                                                                                         (1

                                                                                                               1

                                                                               a)

                                                                                                           (1
      o Vya--         a ts =                                   --r log -V7-«= + = + *4.

If a and                          we shall find = --                                                                        -- ft), and

-If a and 7 we shall find =                                                                                                 - ft), and
      /L'             ft                                                 rr                                                 - ft), and
           1             1
                                                                                   (o (1
                              1,                                                        ±

                                                                                            1) a)
                                                                                                    (1 (1
               "= £VTbhg \y7V£F=4. 7^VA =
-If a 71 and
                                  we shall find =
                    ft
                                                          V'« + Vft\
                     1Z

                            1,
                                 ,

                           I

It    would thus appear that the definite integral would furnish

erroneous values of a
of the factors of and
                    :                           no attention was paid to those values

                     r                           which the circumstances of the inte

                           it if
                                            t·',
gration require and may                                      be  avnedryKe'awsiilyll,    shown that                         an atten
tion to the developements of                                                             with equal                         certainty,
                                                             K
enable us to select the proper developement for z. Thus,
                                                                                                                            iaf
                                                                                                                                7

                                                                                                                                           1

                                                                                                                                              s
282        THIRD REPORT-- 1833.
- - _lf(b _lf)-i:and b 71, we have r = («
                                 1) (6      1) =

     the   value of z («4)                           {(a                                             of the
and  last                   is determined    by the     combination                                  b Z 1,
two        developements.                   manner,
                              In a similar              if a Z 1 and
Ifz (*i) will be formed by the combination of the two first.
- -a Zl and b 7 1, then r = (1
                                 a) (b      1) = {(1_a)a(6 _!)8}-« :

and  the value of z (z2) is  formed  by the combination of the first
and  third developement.             a 7 1 and b Z 1 , then the value
                             And if            of the
of z (z3) will be formed by the
third developements : in other   combination  selection                       second                 and
                                 words, the                                                          de
                                                                              of the
velopements is not arbitrary, in as much as {(1 -- af}-i and

{(a -- I)*}-* ought not to be considered, as we have already
shown, as identical quantities.
    These combinations of the convergent and divergent series
form all the four values of z, of which it appears that one value
alone is correct for any assigned relation of a and b to 1, being
Kthat which arises from the combination of the convergent series

for and K' only. The considerations, however, which deter
mine the selection of the correct developement of z are as de
finite and certain when the general series are employed as when
that value is determined directly from the definite integral
which expresses the value of a. It would appear to me, there
fore, that not only was the employment of divergent series
necessary for the determination of all the values of z, but that
when the theory of their origin is perfectly understood they
are perfectly competent to express all the limitations which are
essential to their usage. The attempt to exclude the use of
divergent series in symbolical operations would necessarily im
pose a limit upon the universality of algebraical formulae and
operations which is altogether contrary to the spirit of the
science, considered as a science of symbols and their combina
tions. It would necessarily lead to a great and embarrassing
multiplication of cases ; it would deprive almost all algebraical
operations of much of their certainty and simplicity ; and it
wwhoeunldoablttaoigneetdh,erancdhaonfgtheeitrheinoterdrperreotafttihoen,intovewsthigicahtioInhaovef
                                                                                                     results
                                                                                                     so fre
quently referred in former parts of this Report, and upon which
so
    EmleamnyenimtapryortaWnotrkcosncolnusiAonlgsebhraav. e--bTeheenremaadree  to depend.
                                                                               few tasks             the
execution of which is so difficult as the composition of an ele
mentary work ; and very few in which, considering the immense

number of such works, complete success is so rare. They re
quire, indeed, a union of qualities which the class of writers
who usually undertake such works are not often competent to
REPORT ON CERTAIN BRANCHES OF ANALYSIS.  283

furnish. Great simplicity in the exposition and exemplification
of first principles, a perfect knowledge of the consequences to
which they lead, and great forbearance in not making them an
occasion for the display of the peculiar opinions or original re
searches of their authors.
There is, in fact, only one elementary work which is entitled

to be considered as having made a very near approach to per
fection. The Elements of Euclid have been the text-book of
geometers for two thousand years ; and though they labour
under some defects, which may or may not admit of remedy,
without injury to the body of the work, yet they have not re
ceived any fundamental change, either in the propositions them
selves, or in their order of succession, or in the principles of
their demonstrations, in the propriety of which geometers of
any age or country have been found to acquiesce. It is true that
both the objects and limits of the science of geometry are per
fectly defined and understood, and that systems of geometry
must, more or less, necessarily approach to a common arrange
ment, in the order of their propositions, and to common prin

ciples as the bases of their demonstrations. But even if we
should make every allowance for the superior simplicity of the
truths to be demonstrated, and for the superior definiteness of
the objects of the science to be taught, and also for the superior
sanction and authority which time and the respect and accept
ance of all ages have assigned to this remarkable work, we may
well despair of ever seeing any elementary exposition of the prin
ciples of algebra, or of any other science, which will be entitled to
claim an equal authority, or which will equally become a model to
which all other systems must, more or less, nearly approximate.
   There are great difficulties in the elementary exposition of
the principles of algebra. As long as we confine our attention
to the principles of arithmetical algebra, we have to deal with
a science all whose objects are distinctly defined and clearly un
Ifderstood, and all whose processes may be justified by demon
strative evidence.  we pass, however, beyond the limits which
the principles of arithmetical algebra impose, both upon the re
presentation of the symbols, and upon the extent of the opera
tions to which they are subject, we are obliged to abandon the
aid which is afforded by an immediate reference to the sensible
objects of our reasoning. In the preceding parts of this Report

we have endeavoured to explain the true connexion between
arithmetical and symbolical algebra, and also the course which
must be followed in order to give to the principles of the latter
in their most general form such a character as may be adequate
to justify all its conclusions. But the necessity which is thus
284  THIRD REPORT-- 1833.

imposed upon us of dealing with abstractions of a nature so
complete and comprehensive, renders it extremely difficult to
give to the principles of this science such a form as may bring
them perfectly within the reach of a student of ordinary powers,
and which have not hitherto been invigorated by the severe dis
cipline of a course of mathematical study.
The range of the science of algebra is so vast, and its appli
cations are so various, both in their objects and in their degrees
of difficulty, that it is quite impossible to fix absolutely the
Ifproper proportion of space which should be assigned to the
developement of its different departments.       a system of al
gebra could be confined to the statement of fundamental prin
ciples, and to the establishment of fundamental propositions
only, it might be possible to approximate to a fixed standard,

which should possess the requisite union of simplicity and of
sufficient generality. But it is a science which cannot be taught
by an exposition of principles and their general consequences
only, but requires a more or less lengthened institution of ex
amples of many of its different applications, in order to produce
in the student mechanical habits of dealing with symbols and
their combinations. The extent also to which such develope-
ments are necessary will vary greatly with the capacities of dif
ferent students, and it would be quite impossible to determine
any just mean between diffuseness and compression which shall
be best adapted to the wants of the general average of students,
or to the systems of instruction followed by the general average
of teachers.
In the early part of the last century the Algebra of Maclaurin
was almost exclusively used in the public education of this
country. It is unduly compressed in many of its most essential
elementary parts, and is also unduly expanded in others which

have reference to his own discoveries. It was written, however,
in a simple and pure taste, and derived no small part of its
authority as a text-book from the great and well-merited repu

tation of its author. It was subsequently, in a great measure,
superseded, in the English Universities at least, by the large
work of Sanderson, which was composed by this celebrated
teacher to meet the wants of his numerous pupils. It was, in
consequence, swelled out to a very unwieldy
number of examples worked out at great length ;  size by a vast
                                                 and it laboured
under the very serious defect of teaching almost exclusively
arithmetical algebra, being   far behind the work    of Maclaurin
in the exposition of general  views of the science.  At the latter
end of the last century Dr. Wood, the present learned and
venerable master of St. John's College Cambridge, in conjunc
REPORT ON CERTAIN BRANCHES OF ANALYSIS.  285

tion with the late Professor Vince, undertook the publication
of a series of elementary works on analysis, and on the appli
cation of mathematics to different branches of natural philo
sophy, principally with a view to the benefit of students at the
Universities. The works of the latter of these two writers have
already fallen into very general neglect, in consequence partly

of their want of elegance, and partly in consequence of their

total unfitness to teach the more modern and improved forms
of those different branches of science. But the works of his
colleague in this undertaking have continued to increase in
circulation, and are likely to exercise for many years a consi
derable influence upon our national system of education ; for
they possess in a very eminent degree the great requisites of
simplicity and elegance, both in their composition and in their
design. The propositions are clearly stated and demonstrated,
and are not incumbered with unnecessary explanations and
illustrations. There is no attempt to bring prominently forward
the peculiar views and researches of the author, and the dif
ferent parts of the subjects discussed are made to bear a proper

subordination to each other. It is the union of all these qua

lities which has given to his works, and particularly to his
Algebra, so great a degree of popularity, and which has se
cured, and is likely to continue to secure, their adoption as
text-books for lectures and instruction, notwithstanding the
absence of very profound and philosophical views of the first
principles, and their want of adaptation, in many important
particulars, to the methods which have been followed by the
great continental writers.

   In later times a great number of elementary works on algebra,
possessing various degrees of merit, have been published.
Those, however, which have been written for purposes of in
struction only, without any reference to the advancement of
new views, either of the principles of the science, or to the ex
tension of its applications, have generally failed in those great
and essential requisites of simplicity, and of adequate, but not
excessive, illustration, for which the work of Dr. Wood is so

remarkably distinguished ; whilst other works, which have pos
sessed a more ambitious character, have been generally devoted
too exclusively to the developement of some peculiar views of
their authors, and have consequently not been entitled to be
generally adopted as text-books in a system of academical or
national education. There are, however, many private reasons
which should prevent the author of this Report from enlarging
upon this part of his subject, who is too conscious that there
are few defects which he could presume to charge upon the
286  THIRD REPORT-- 1833.

works of other authors from which he could venture to exempt

his own.
   The elementary works on algebra and on all other branches

of analytical and physical science which have been published
in France since the period of the Revolution, have been very
extensively used, not merely in this country, but in almost
every part of the continent of Europe where the French lan
guage is known and understood. The great number of illus
trious men who took part in the lectures at the Normal and
Polytechnic Schools at the time of their first institution, and
the enlarged views which were consequently taken of the prin
ciples of elementary instruction and of their adaptation to the
highest developement of the several sciences to which they
lead, combined with the powerful stimulus given to the human
mind in all ranks of life, in consequence of the stirring events
which were taking place around them, at once placed the scien
tific education of France immensely in advance of that of the
rest of Europe. The works of Lagrange, particularly his Calcul
ties FoHctions and his T/iSorie des Fonctions Analytiques, which
formed the substance of lectures given at the Ecole Polytech-
nique, exhibited the principles of the differential and integral
calculus in a new light, and contributed, in connexion with his
numerous other works and memoirs, which are unrivalled for
their general elegance and fine philosophical views, to fami
liarize the French student with the most perfect forms and
with the most correct and at the same time most general prin
ciples of analytical science. The labours of Monge also, upon
the application of algebra to geometry, succeeded in bringing
all the relations of space, with which every department of na
tural philosophy is concerned, completely under the dominion
of analysis *, and thus enabled their elementary and other
writers to exhibit the mathematical principles of every branch
of natural philosophy under analytical and symmetrical forms.
Laplace himself gave lectures on the principles of arithmetic
and of algebra, which appear in the Stances de VEcole Nor-
male and in the Journal de V Ecole Polytechnique ; and there are
very few of the illustrious men of science, of that or of a subse
quent period, who have done so much honour to France, who
have not been more or less intimately associated with carrying

   · The developement of the details of this most important branch of analy
tical science, which has been so extensively and successfully cultivated in
France, is greatly indebted to Monge's pupils in the Polytechnic School,
many of whom have subsequently attained to great scientific eminence : their
results are chiefly contained in the three volumes of Corretpondance $ur
V Ecole Polytechnique.
            REPORT ON CERTAIN BRANCHES OF ANALYSIS.           287

on the business of national education in its highest departments.
The influence of such men has been felt not merely in the very
general diffusion of scientific knowledge in that great nation,
but also in the form and cJur^cer 0/ meir elementary books,
which are generally rem irkable for their precision and clear
ness of statement, for their symmetry of form, and for their
adaptation to the most extensive developement of the several
sciences upon which they treat.
   The elementary works of M. Lacroix upon almost every de

partment of analytical science have been deservedly celebrated :
they possess nearly all the excellences above enumerated as
characteristic of French elementary writers, and they are also
remarkable for the purity and simplicity of the style in which
they are written *. The Cours des Mathe'matiqiies Pures of
M. Francceur possesses merits of a similar kind, being too
much compressed, however, for the purposes of self-instruction,
though well adapted to form a basis for the lectures of a teacher.
The works of M. Garnier are chiefly valuable for their careful
illustration of, and judicious selection from, the writings of

Lagrange, and are well calculated to make the general views
and principles of that great analyst and philosopher familiar

to the mind of a student. The Arithmetic, Algebra f, and Appli
cation of Algebra to Geometry, of M. Bourdon are works of

more than ordinary merit, and present a very clear and fully
developed view of the elements of those sciences. Many other
works have been published of the same kind and with similar
             Reynaud, Boucharlat and other writers.
vieIwsamby  too little acquainted with the elementary  works  which
are used in the different Universities of Germany to be able to

express any opinion of their character. Those which I have seen
have been wanting in that precise and symmetrical form which
constitutes the distinguishing merit of the French elementary
writers ; but they are generally copious, even to excess, in their
examples and illustrations. The immense developement which
public instruction, in all its departments, has received in that
country would lead us to conclude that they possess elementary
mathematical works, which are at least not inferior to those which

   · Before the Revolution, the Cours des Mathbnatiques Pures et Appliqv.ee*
of Bezout, in six volumes, was generally used in public education in France :
it is a work much superior to any other publication of that period of a simi
lar kind which was to be found in any European language.

   T A part of the Algebra of Bourdon has been translated and highly com
mended by Mr. De Morgan, a gentleman whose philosophical work on Arith
metic and whose various publications on the elementary and higher parts of
mathematics, and particularly those which have reference to mathematical
education, entitle his opinion to the greatest consideration.
288                    THIRD REPORT 1833.

exist in other languages : and the labours of Gauss, Bessel, and
Jacobi, and the numerous and important memoirs which appear
in their public Journals and Transactions upon the most difficult
questions of analysis and the physical sciences,                              sufficiently show
that the mathematical literature of this most                                 learned nation is

not less diligently and successfully cultivated than that which
belongs to every other department of human knowledge.

   The combinatorial analysis, which Hindenburg first intro
duced, has been cultivated in Germany with a singular and

perfectly national predilection *; and it must be allowed that it
is well calculated to compress into the smallest possible space
tsheeriegsreiat tiesstalspoosfsriebqleueqnutlaynotiftygroefatmeuasen,inga.nd  In the doctrine of
                                                                              enables us to ex

hibit and to perceive relations which would not otherwise be
                         Without denying,    however,                         the  advantages
easily  discoverable.  either the study or                                    the
which   may attend                          the use of                             notation of

the combinatorial analysis, it may be very reasonably doubted
whether those advantages form a sufficient compensation for
the labour of acquiring an habitual command over the use and
interpretation of a conventional symbolical language, which is
necessarily more or less at variance with the ordinary usage and
            of  tThheesseymobbojlescteiomnpsloyweoduladndapopflyth, eiflawsuschof  their com
meaning                                                                            a conven
binations.
tional use of symbolical language was universally adopted and
understood ; but they acquire a double force and authority,
fwhen it appears that they are only partially used in the only

country in which the combinatorial analysis is extensively
cultivated, and that, consequently, those works in which it is
adopted are excluded from general perusal, in consequence
of their not being written in that peculiar form of symbolical
language with which our mathematical associations are indis-

solTurbiglyoncoomnneetcrtye.d--. The term Trigonometry sufficiently indicates
the primitive object of this science, which was the determina
tion, from the requisite data, of the sides and angles of trian
gles : it was in fact considered in a great degree as an inde

   * See Eytelwein's Grundlehre derhohern Analysis, a very voluminous work,
which contains the principal results of modern analysis and of the theory of
series exhibited in the language and notation of this analysis.

   t Professor Jarrett, of Catherine Hall, Cambridge, in some papers in the
Transactions of the Philosophical Society of Cambridge, and in a Treatise on
Algebraical Developement, has attempted to introduce the use of the lan
guage of the combinatorial analysis. The great neglect, however, which has

attended those speculations, which are very general and in some respects
extremely ingenious, is a sufficient proof of the difficulty of overcoming those
mathematical habits which a long practice has generated and confirmed.
       REPORT ON CERTAIN BRANCHES OF ANALYSIS.                                                      289

pendent science, and not as auxiliary to the application of al
gebra to geometry. It is to Euler* that we are indebted for
the emancipation of this most important branch of analytical
science from this very limited application, who first introduced
the functional designations sin z, cos z, tan z, &c, to denote the
sine, cosine, tangent, &c, of an arc z, whose radius is 1, which
had previously been designated by words at length, or by simple
and independent symbols, such as a, b, s, c, t, &c. The intro
duction of this new algorithm speedily changed the whole form
and character of symbolical language, and greatly extended
and simplified its applications to analysis, and to every branch
of natural philosophy.

   The angles which enter into consideration in trigonometry
are generally assumed to be measured by the arcs of a circle
of a given radius, and their sines and cosines are commonly de
fined with reference to the determination of these arcs, and not
with reference to the determination of the angles which they
measure. It is in consequence of this defined connexion of
sines and cosines with the arcs, and not immediately with the
angles which they measure, that the radius of the circle upon
which those arcs are taken must necessarily enter as an element
in the comparison of the sines and cosines of the same angle
determined by different measures : and though they were ge
nerally, at least in later writers, reduced to a common standard,
by assuming the radius of this circle to be 1 , yet formulae were
considered as not perfectly general unless they were expressed

with reference to any radius whatsoever f. In the application,

likewise, of such formulae to the business of calculation, the
consideration of the radius was generally introduced, producing
no small degree of confusion and embarrassment ; and even in
the construction of logarithmic tables of sines and cosines the

· Introductio in Analysim Infinilorum, vol. i. cap. viii. " Quemadmodum
logarithmi peculiarem algorithmum requirunt, cujus in universa analysi summus
extat usus, ita quantitates circulares ad certain quoque algorithmi normam
perduxi : ut in
braical tractari  cpaolscsuelont."ae--queExctoramcmt ofdreom  ac logarithmi  et ipsae  quantitates  alge
                                                               Preface.

t We may refer to Vince's Trigonometry, a work in general use in this
country less than a quarter of a century ago, and to other earlier as well as
contemporary writers on this subject, for examples of formulae, which are uni
formly embarrassed by the introduction of this extraneous element. Later writers
have assumed the radius of the circle to be 1, and have contented themselves

with giving rules for the conversion of the resulting formula- to those which

would arise from the use of any other radius. It is somewhat remarkable that

the elementary writers on this subject should have continued to encumber their
formulae with this element long after its use had been abandoned by Euler,
Lagrange, Laplace, and all the other great and classical mathematical writers
on the Continent.

1833.              .u
                       THIRD REPORT 1833.

occurrence of negative logarithms was avoided by a fiction,
which supposed them to be the sines and cosines of arcs of a
circle whose radius was 1010.

  A very slight modification of the definition of the sine and

cosine would enable us to get rid of this element altogether.
In a right-angled triangle, the ratio of any two of its sides will
determine its species, and conse
Ifquently the magnitude of its angles.

   we suppose, therefore, a point P
       taken in         (A C) of the                                 two
to be            one   B containing                                  the
lines  A C and
                  A
angle B A C (0), and P M to be
drawn perpendicular to the other
line (A B), then we may define the

PMsine of 0 to be the ratio t-w, and the cosine of 6 to be the
ratio AA. MP,,. 'By such definiti.ons we shall make the sine and
cosine of an angle depend upon the angle itself, and not upon
its measure, or upon the radius of the circle in which it is taken :
and upon this foundation all the formulae of trigonometry may
be established, and their applications made, without the neces
Ifsity of mentioning the word radius*.

      we likewise assume the ratio of the arc which subtends an
angle to the radius of the circle in which it is taken, and not
the arc itself, for the measure of an angle, we shall obtain a
quantity which is independent of this radius. In assuming,
therefore, the angle 0 to be not only measured, but also repre
sented by this ratio, we shall be enabled to compare sin 0 and
cos 0 directly with 0, and thus to express one of them in terms

of the other. It is this hypothesis which is made in deducing
the exponential expressions for the sine and cosine, and the
series which result immediately from themf.

A· See Syllabus of a Course of Lectures upon Trigonometry, and the Appli
cation of Algebra to Geometry, published at Cambridge in 1833, in which all
the   foIrfmwuelaeshoofutldrigaotnteommpet trtyoadreedduecdeucthede  in conformity with these definitions.
                                                                     exponential expressions for sin 8 and
   t
cos 8 from the system of fundamental equations,
                       cos2 6 + sin* 6=1
                            6=                                                         (1.)
                            6=  cos ( -- 8)
                       cos      -- sin (--                                i)           (2.)
we should find,        sin                                                             (3.)

cos 6 =          --             » and sin 6 =                                 2 v=C=3  ,
                    2

in which the quantity A, in the absence of any determinate measure of the
        REPORT ON CERTAIN BRANCHES OF ANALYSIS.                                                                 291

   The sines and cosines and the measures of angles defined
and determined as above, are the only essential elements in a
system of trigonometry, and are sufficient for the deduction of
all the important formulae which are required either in algebra

angle 6, would be perfectly indeterminate. It is the assumption of the measure
of an angle which is mentioned in the text which makes it necessary to re
place A by 1.

  The knowledge of the exponential expressions for the sine and cosine would
furnish us immediately with all the other properties of these transcendents.

Thus, if the sines and cosines of two angles be given, we can find the sines
and cosines of their sum and difference ; and from hence, also, we can find
the sine and cosine of any multiple of an angle from the values of the sine
and cosine of the simple angle ; and also through the medium of the solution
of equations the sine and cosine of its submultiples. In fact, as far as the
symbolical properties of those transcendents are concerned, it is altogether
indifferent whether we consider them to be deduced primarily from the
assumed functional equations (1.), (2.), (3.), or from the primitive geome
trical definitions of which those equations are the immediate symbolical con
J/ J0/If px pysequences.
       we should denote the integrals                  .,               dx     ,  and-      --»/,-ld. --y       (com-
                                                    a/1
                                             0                          --    x1                           -,,
                                                                                                           y3

mencing from 0 respectively) by 8 and 6' respectively, then the integral of
the equation
                                 dx dy

would furnish us with the fundamental equation

                           sin (8 +  = sin cos + cos sin                                V,
                                     8')                                          8                             (fi.)
                                           6,

                                                       6
                                                                    8'
     V\ Viwceossh8o'. uldIfretphleaceformx ublaye
                                     sin            -- x* by cos                    by sin and8',                --
                                      of  trigonometry were                   founded upon such                 basis,
by if                                                                         6,                           a
                                                                                 y                                    y*

they would require no previous knowledge either of circular arcs considered
as the measures of angles, or of the geometrical definitions of the sines and
cosines, except so far as they may be ascertained from the examination of the
values and properties of the transcendents which enter into the equation («.).
In similar manner, we should suppose and to represent the integrals
     a                     if/               V

                                     v.C.. +*--·*jt and/      8               --v>(;i,----*--V5)\' then the integral
                                                                   o

                                                                            6'
Jo Joof the transcendents
of the equation
                               dx            -VJJilL+--f)
                                          +                             =                                       (y.)
                           ·v/(l
                                 +   **)

would be expressed by the equation

        sin +              = sin X cos + cos x sin                                             y3 8',
if                         8')               A                                          A                A (1   (X.)
                                    hh              y
      A                                                                                                     +
            h                            6t               8'
                                                             h                                                           8',
                  8
                       (8                                  it A

                                                                              8',
                                                                                 8
  V\we should make x =

= cos (the hyperbolic
adopting the terms which
                                     sin (the hyperbolic sine of 8),                        and  a/                    x1)
                                     cosine of 6), = sin and                                     =
                                                                                            +                     cos
                                     Lambert introduced, and which have been                                    noticed

in the note in p. 231 and                    evident that would be possible from equa
                           ;

                                    it
                                         is

tion (8.), combined with the assumptions made in deducing it, to frame a
system of hyperbolic trigonometry (having reference to the sectors, and not

                                             v
                                                 2
292 THIRD REPORT -- 1833.
or in its applications to geometry. The terms tangent, co
tangent, secant and cosecant, and versed sine, which denote
very simple functions of the sine and cosine, may be denned by
those functions and will be merely used when they enable us to
exhibit formulae involving sines and cosines, in a more simple
form. By adopting such a view of the meaning and origin of
the transcendental functions, the relations and properties of
which constitute the science of trigonometry, we are at once
freed from the necessity of considering those functions as lines
described in and about a circle, and as jointly dependent upon
the magnitude of the angles to which they correspond and of the
radius of the circle itself. It is this last element, which is thus
introduced, which is not merely superfluous, but calculated to
give erroneous views of the origin and constitution of trigono
metrical formulae and greatly to embarrass all their applications.

to the arcs of the equilateral hyperbola), whose formulae would bear a very
striking analogy to the formulae of trigonometry, properly so called.

   Abel, in the second volume of Crelle's Journal, has laid the foundation, of
a species of elliptic trigonometry, (if such a term may be used,)
with a remarkable extension of the theory of elliptic integrals.                                                       Ifin connexion
the elliptic integral of the first species
                                                                                                                           we denote
           Xf0 J(l-c*d^»Wf)
by i, and replace sin yp by x, we shall get

                   /* d x

or more generally  "S. dx
                          0 V{(l+e*x*)(\-<?x*)y
-/ =/If we now suppose x = q>8,                                              6 and -y/ (1 + e'z*) -- F i, it
                                  (1 -- c* it*)
n-tLJ. --may be demonstrated that
              m* t{i* ++ ' > ~
                                                                             T''+·ftot'-p+ -<np«'?.?/8  .F8
                                                                                                                 -

1 V + '' ~                                                                   i1 + e* <* <? . <p 9                   '

K,-rr.j-- r8.T9 + *9i.99.f8./9.
                                                                             1 +e*c,<p8.<p9

s
                        if,
                                             F <p
                                                                         88
                                         8 8i
or for the sake of more distinct and immediate reference to these peculiar
transcendents, we denote

                         by ^sin                                             (elliptic sine of ff),
                                                                             (elliptic cosine of t), and
                   f8 by #cos                                                (elliptic sursine of 8).

                       by tw
          REPORT ON CERTAIN BRANCHES OF ANALYSIS.                                                                                                     293

The primitive signs + and -- , when applied to symbols de
noting lines, are only competent to express the relation of lines
which are parallel to each other when drawn or estimated in dif

Vferent directions ; but the more general sign cos t + -- 1 sin 6,
which has been noticed in the former part of this Report, when
applied to such symbols, is competent to express all the rela
tions of  position of lines in the                                                                            with respect
other.    It is the use of this                                        same plane                            enables us to          to each
                                                                      sign which                                                    subject
the properties of rectilinear figures to the dominion of algebra :
thus, a series of lines represented in magnitude and position by
a0, (cos 61 + V--i sin av {cos
                                                                            09)+ V--[ sin
.                                                                                                                                                     }av
                 («,

                   +

                                &,
                                      :

                                              0,)

                                           +

                                                                      (9,

                                                          +

                                             if («,
                                                                                                               $2
                                                                                                                 (0,
                                                                                           +
                                                                                                                                                 02)
. . {cos            + ... «»_,) v^T] sin + + ... «,,_,)} an-u

will be competent to form a closed figure, the following equa
tions be satisfied

then these fundamental equations                   6              will become                       e        cos    surs
                                                                    surs + sin                        6' 6'
                                            sin cos    i              #                                      V         --t ^ tf 8
                                                                6'+ e* c* sin* sin*e
         sin («+«)-                                                         6i                                   6

                                   cos             cos -- c9 sin sin surs surs
                                                   0                                                              $
       cos («+*>=                                              6'

                                                     i+**-JSfi sin*                                                              ·
                                                                            0f if
                                                                      e           e

                                 surs              6surs + e* sin sin cos                                           <)  cos
                                                            1+ e* c* sin* sin*
       surs  (#   + *-) --                                                                                   4'
                                                                  0'         e
                                                                            ei

If we add, subtract and multiply, the elliptic sines, cosines and sursines of
the sum and difference of and respectively, reducing them, when necessary,
                        6

                                If

by the aid of the fundamental relations which exist amongst these three tran
scendents, we shall obtain a series of formulte, some of which are very remark
                  degenerate into the ordinary formulae of trigonometry, when
able,  and which  we shall thus likewise be enabled to express sin                                                                  cos nn

 =     and =                                                                                                                         i,
te                                                                                                                           ee
        6, 0                                                                                                                                  ;
                                                                                                                                                       1) 8,
               8,
                       6, c

                                 :1
                                      6,

                                                 6,
                                                             6,
                                                                           n 6.
                                                                               6,
                                                                                                6,
surs n in terms of sin cos surs The inverse problem, however, to express
                  eee
sin cos surs in terms of sin                                          cos n surs n                                   one of much greater
                                                                                                             6,
                                                                                                                 is

difficulty, requiring the consideration of equations of high orders, but whoseis
ultimate solution can be made to depend upon that of an equation of (n +
                  a
dimensions only. It in the discussion of these equations that Abel has dis

played all the resources of his extraordinary genius.

   It would be altogether out of place to enter upon a lengthened statement
of the various properties of these elliptic sines, cosines, and sursines their

periodicity, their limits, their roots, and their extraordinary use in the trans
formation of elliptic functions. My object has been merely to notice the ru
diments of a species of elliptic trigonometry, the cultivation of which, even
without the aid of distinct algorithm, has already contributed so greatly to
the enlargement of the domains of analysis.
   294 THIRD REPORT 1833.

   Oo + a, cos9, + a2 cos +6a)            + (0, (6,           . a,-, cos         + . 0,-i)=O (1.)
                                                     ^)                   («1 («,
                                                        . .+
                                                                             +

                                                                                    02 ««
                                                                                            .
                                                                                               ..

                                                                                                          0
                a, sin 0,+a9 sin + + . «r,,_, sin + + 6,,_,) = (2.)
                 J,-M2 ...«.-, =(»-2r)»
                                                              .                                              (3.)

      The first two of these equations may be called equations of
   figure, and the last the equation of angles, and all of them must
   be satisfied in order that the lines in question may be capable
      Ifof being formed into figure, along the sides of which a point
      fia                                                                            if

                0,,                                                                     r

                          0a                                                               if

                      it                                                                            1,

                                       0s                                                            iv
                                          .                                      the values of

                                            a
   be moved will circulate continually-                                              = then
            --   -- . 0,,_, -- 0,,_, be all positive, and

      the equation of angles will correspond to those rectilineal figures
      to which the corollaries to the thirty-second proposition of the
      first book of Euclid are applicable, and which are contemplated
                 ordinary definitions                of rectilineal figures in geometry.
      bIfy  the  should suppose =                      or or any other whole number
            we       1,

                             r

                                            2
                                                  3
   different from the equation would correspond to stellated
   figures, where the sum of the exterior angles shall be 12, or                     8,

   r4   right angles. The properties of such stellated figures were
   first noticed by Poinsot in the fourth volume of the Journal
      de VEcole Polytechnique, in very interesting memoir on the
      Geometry of Situation*.                        a

         All equal and parallel lines drawn or estimated in the same
      direction are expressed by the same symbol affected by the
                                                                                 this infinity of lines,
      same sign, whatever                            may be and
                                          it

                                                                    :

                                                                   it
                                                                          is
                                                                            it
   geometrically different from each other, which have the same
      algebraical representation, which renders necessary to con
      sider the position of lines, not merely with respect to each other,
   bouf tthaelsoeqwuaitthionresspoefctthteoirfixgeednelrianteinsgorpaoxinetss,.
                                                                                 through the medium          it
                                                                                    In other words,

          not possible to supersede even rectilineal geometry by means
   is of                                  only. We
      of    aaffencetwedbrsaynmchbolos f              are thus   led to          isthe consideration
     A                                    analytical  science,   which              specifically de
   nominated the Application of Algebra to Geometry, and which
   enables us to consider every relation of points in space and the
   laws of their connexion with each other, whatever those laws
   may be. It        not our intention, however, to enter upon the
                 is

   discussion of the general principles of this science, or to notice
   its present state or recent progress.
          great number of elementary works on trigonometry have

   been published of late years in this country, many of which are
   remarkable for the great simplicity of form to which they have
   reduced the investigation of the fundamental formulae. Such
   works are admirably calculated to promote the extension of

                     · See also Peacock'* Algebra, p. 448.

X
REPORT ON CERTAIN BRANCHES OF ANALYSIS.           295

mathematical education, by placing this most important branch
of analytical science, the very key-stone of all the applications
of mathematics to natural philosophy, within the reach of every
student who has mastered the elements of geometry and the
firsWt eprihnacvipelebsefoofrealgheabdra.occasion to notice the work of the late

Professor Vince upon this subject, which was generally used
in the Universities of England for some years after the com
mencement of the present century. Its author was a mathema
tician of no inconsiderable powers, and of very extensive know
ledge, but who was totally destitute of all feeling for elegance
in the selection and construction of his formulae, and who had
no acquaintance with, or rather no proper power of appreciating,
those beautiful models of symmetry and of correct taste which
were presented by the works of Euler and Lagrange. But
though this treatise was singularly rude and barbarous in its
form, and altogether inadequate to introduce the student to a
proper knowledge either of the objects or of the powers of this
science, yet it was greatly in advance of other treatises which
wglicoeanroteimounes.terydAmawnohdnicgshstut ditsiheedaspeipnemntadhyeisdbceotumonetSnritymiosanotendt'shetEhpeuecrtlriioedda,tioswefhiitocsnhpTwurbais
more adapted to the state of the science in the age of Ptolemy
than at the close of the eighteenth century *.
   The Plane and Spherical Trigonometry of the late Professor
Woodhouse appeared in 1810, and more than any other work
contributed to revolutionize the mathematical studies of this
country. It was a work, independently of its singularly oppor
                  of great merit, and such as is  not likely, not
tune appearance,  crowd of similar publications   in the present
withstanding the
day, to be speedily superseded in the business of education.
The fundamental formulae are demonstrated with considerable
elegance and simplicity ; the examples of their application, both
in plane and spherical trigonometry, are well selected and very
carefully worked out ; the uses of trigonometrical formulae, in
some of their highest applications, are exhibited and pointed

    * Similar remarks might be applied to treatises upon trigonometry which
were published both before and after the appearance of Professor Wood-
house's Trigonometry. The author of this Report well recollects a treatise of
this kind which was extensively used when he was a student at the Univer
sity, in which the proposition for expressing the sine of an angle in terms of
the sides of a triangle, was familiarly denominated the black triangle, in con
sequence of the use of thick and dark lines to distinguish the primitive tri
angle amidst the confused mass of other lines in which it was enveloped, for
the purpose of obtaining the required result by means of an incongruous
combination of geometry and algebra.
296  THIRD REPORT 1833.

 out in a very clear and striking form ; and, like all other
 works of this author, it is written in a manner well calculated
 to fix strongly the attention of the student, and to make him
 reflect attentively upon the particular processes which are fol
 lowed, and upon the reasons which lead to their adoption.

    The circumstances attending the publication and reception of
 this work in the University of Cambridge were sufficiently re
markable. It was opposed and stigmatized by many of the older
 members, as tending to produce a dangerous innovation in the
 existing course of academical studies, and to subvert the pre
 valent taste for the geometrical form of conducting investiga
 tions and of exhibiting results which had been adopted by
 Newton in the greatest of his works, and which it became us,
 therefore, from a regard to the national honour and our own,
to maintain unaltered. It was contended, also, that the primary
object of academical education, namely, the severe cultivation
and discipline of the mind, was more effectually attained by
geometrical than by analytical studies, in which the objects of
our reasoning are less definite and tangible, and where the
processes of demonstration are much less logical and complete.
The opposition, however, to this change, though urged with
considerable violence, experienced the ordinary fate of attempts
made to resist the inevitable progress of knowledge and the
increased wants and improving spirit of the age. In the course
of a few years the work in question was universally adopted.
The antiquated fluxional notation which interfered so greatly
with the familiar study of the works of Euler, Lagrange, La
place, and the other great records of analytical and philoso
phical knowledge, was abandoned · ; the works of the best
mathematical writers on the continent of Europe were rapidly
introduced into the course of the studies of the University; and
the secure foundations were laid of a system of mathematical
and philosophical education at once severe and comprehensive,
which is now producing, and is likely to continue to produce,
the most important effects upon the scientific character of the

nation.

iftirsseTtlhfaeinnodrtyhoenoefthEoeqfourtahyteioomfnseo.qsut adt1iiof.fnicsCuolimts ptpoorsoiptpirooonvseitioo"fnEsthqawuthaaticilohl nesqp.ur--easteiTonnhtsse

under a rational form, and arranged according to the method

    * The continental notation of the differential calculus was first publicly
introduced into the Senate House examinations in 1817. Though the change
was strongly deprecated at the time, it was very speedily adopted, and in
less than two years from that time the fluxional notation had altogether dis
appeared.
REPORT ON CERTAIN BRANCHES OF ANALYSIS.                 297

of Harriott, the significant terms forming one member, and
zero the other, are said to be resolvible into simple or quadratic
                    It is only another form  of the same proposition to
sfaacy,tor"s."that                           many roots as it has dimen
                     every equation has as
sions, and no more; those roots being either real* or ima
ginary ;" that is, being quantities which are expressible by

symbols denoting real magnitudes affected by such signs as

are recognised in algebra.
   We have before said that it is impossible to assign before
hand an absolute limit to the possible existence of signs of
affection different from those which are involved in the sym
*-a,bolical values of (1)" and (--1)"; and when it is said that every
equation is resolvable into factors of the form  we presume

Ifthat a is either a real magnitude, or of the form a. + /3 V -- 1 ,
where a. and /3 are real magnitudes.         we should fail in esta
blishing this proposition, it would by no means necessarily fol
low that there might not exist other forms of factors like x -- a,

where a denoted a real magnitude affected by some unknown

Vsign different from +, -- , or cos 0 + -- 1 sin 9, which might

satisfy the required conditions : at the same time its demonstra
tion will show that our recognised signs are competent to de
note all the affections of magnitude which are subject to any

Ifconditions which are reducible to the form of an equation.

       we assume in the first instance the composition of equa
tions to be such as we have stated in the enunciation of the

fundamental proposition, we can at once ascertain the composi

tion of the several coefficients of the powers of x in the equa
tion x" -- px x" - ' + p2 x"- * --
                                             + pn = 0,

and we can complete the investigation of all those general pro
perties of equations which such an hypothesis would lead to.
All such conclusions, when established upon such a foundation,
are conditional only. It is not expedient, however, to make
the fate of any number of propositions, however consistent with
each other, and however unquestionable their truth may appear
to be from indirect or from & posteriori considerations, depend
ent upon an hypothesis, when it is possible to convert this hypo
thesis into a necessary symbolical truth. Using such an hypo
thesis, therefore, as a suggestion merely, let us propose the

  · It is convenient in the theory of equations, for the purpose of avoiding

repetition, to consider symbols denoting arithmetical magnitudes and affected
with the signs + or -- , as real ; and quantities denoted by symbols affected

with the sign cos 6 + v -- 1 sin 6, as imaginary.
298 THIRD REPORT -- 1833.

following problem, and examine all the consequences to which
its"soTluotifoinndwnillquleaandti.ties x, xv x3, . . . xn-i, such that their sum
shall be equal to p{, the sum of all their products two and two
shall be equal to pit the sum of all their products three and

three shall be equal to p3, and so on, until we arrive at their
...continued product, which shall be equal topn."
   The quantities x, xit      xn-it are supposed to be any   quan
tities whatever, whether  real or affected by any signs of   affec
tion whether known or unknown. It is our object to show that
Vthe only sign of affection required is cos d + -- 1 sin 8, taken
in its most general sense.

   It is very easy to show that the solution of this problem will
                                                      pu pv . . . pn:
lead to a  general equation,  whose coefficients are
           suppose the first                          to be omitted,
for if we                     of these quantities x
and P,, P2, . . . P,,_, to be the quantities corresponding to pv
Pi, . . . p,, when there are (« -- 1) quantities instead of n, then
we shall get
                          x + P, =^,,
              x P, + Pa = p2,
              x Ps + P3 = p3,

              * P»-S + P»-l -- pn-l,

                          xP^i = pn.
If we multiply these equations from the first downwards by the
terms of the series x"~1, a"-*, . . . x2, x, 1, and add the first,
third, fifth, &c, of the results together, and subtract the second,
-...+(-fourth, sixth, &c, we shall get the general equation
x" -- px x"-1 + Pa x"-1                1)"^, = 0.            (I.)

   In as much as pv pq, . . . pn may represent any real magni
tudes whatever, zero included, it is obvious that we may consi
der this equation as the result of the solution of the problem in
its most general form. And in as much as x may represent any
one of the n quantities involved in the problem, we must equally
obtain the same equation for all those n quantities : it also fol
lows that every general solution of this equation must compre
hend the expression of all the roots.

   By this mode of presenting the question we are authorized in
considering the symbolical composition of the coefficients of
every equation as known, though the ultimate symbolical form
of the roots is not known ; and our inquiry will now be properly
limited to the question of ascertaining whether symbols repre
            REPORT ON CERTAIN BRANCHES OF ANALYSIS.                                                 299

seating real magnitudes affected by the recognised and known
signs of affection only, are competent, under all circumstances,
                                              of the problem.
to  Iafntshweervatlhuee  required conditions
                         of one root can be   ascertained, and
                                                                                              that  root  be
real, the problem can be simplified, and the dimensions of the
equation depressed by unity; for the coefficients of the reduced
Ifequation Vx . P9 . PB_i, which are also real, can be successively
determined.              more real roots than one can be found, the
Ifdimensions of the equation can be depressed by as many unities
as there are real roots.             the root determined be not real, and if
a similar process for depressing the dimensions of the equation
be adopted, the coefficients of the new equation would not be
                                     of the problem  with
real, and the conditions             changed. But           respect                            to the re
maining roots would be                               if we   could                            ascertain a
pair of such roots, such that their sum = x + or, and their pro
duct = x xx should be real, then the dimensions of the equation
might be depressed by two unities, without changing the con
ditions of the problem with respect to the remaining roots; for
if we supposed Q,, Q2, Q3, &c, to represent the coefficients of
the reduced equation, we should find,

                          x + .r, + Q, = px,

                           x xx + (x + x,) Q, + Q2 = 2h<
                         x xt Q, + (x + xi) Q2 + Q3 = p3,

            x x\ Q»-< + (x + xx) Q,,_3 + Q,,_* = p,,_lt
                               x x, QB_* = pm

from which equations we can determine successively rational

values of Q,, Q2, . . . Q,,_s. It remains to show, therefore,
that in all cases we can find pairs of roots which will answer
these conditions.

  If the number of quantities x, xv . . . .r,, be odd, it is very

easy to prove that there is always a real value of one of them, x,
which will satisfy the conditions of the general equation (1.) *,
and that consequently the dimensions of the equation may be
depressed by unity, and our attention confined therefore to
Ifthe case where the dimensions of the equation are even.
                                                                                                          m,
therefore, be any odd number, the form of n may be either 2 m,
2s m, 2s m, 2" m, and so on. Let us consider, in the first place,
the first of these cases.
    The number of combinations of 2 m, things taken two and two
together, is m (2 m -- 1,) and therefore an odd number : these

   * This   may    be easily proved  twheitheoquut atthioenn. eceSseseitytheofAmrtiackleing'  any hypothesis
              the  composition of                                                             Equations' in
respecting
the Supplement to the Ena/dopcedia Britannica, written by Mr. Ivory.
300                                   THIRD REPORT-- 1833.

combinations may be either the sums of every two of the quanti
ties, x, x,, . . . xn_i, such as x + xv x + x2, &c, or their products,
such as x xv or other rational linear functions of those quanti
ties, involving two of them only, such as x + xx + x xv x + x,
If+ 2 x x,, or x + x, + k x xv where k may be any given num
ber whatsoever.                       we take any one of these sets of combina
tions, we can form rational expressions for their sum, for the
sum of their products, two and two, three and three, and so on,
in terms of the coefficients pv pv . . . p,,, of the original equa
tion (1.), by means of the common theory of symmetrical func
tions *, and consequently, we can form the corresponding equa
tions of m (2 m --                    1)Sudcimhenesqiuonatsionws hibcehinwg ilol fhaovded  rational and
known coefficients.                                                                         dimensions

must have at least one real root ; or, in other words, there must
exist at least one real value of one of the sums of two roots,
Ifsuch as x + xt, of one of the products, such as x x,, of one
of the functions, x + xx + x xv or x + x, + k x xv                                                the

symbols which form                    the real sum     pxro+duxct tarxe      the same       with  those
which form the real                                                                        under   such
                                      value of the                          xv then,
fcircumstances, x and xt are expressible by real magnitudes af

fected with the ordinary signs of algebra . We shall now pro
Ifceed to show that this must be the case.

      we form the equations successively whose roots are x + r,
If+ k x xv corresponding to different values of k, we shall have
one real root at least in each of them.                                     we form more than
m (2 m --               such equations for different values of we must
a!                                                                                         k,
   k1                                                                                        (2
                                                                                                          k 1)
             /3' 1),
                                  ++ k
                                           ++

                                 *t,

                                            r,
at least have amongst them the same combination of x and x,
forming the real root, in as much as there are only m m --
such combinations which are different from each other. Let
and be the values of which give such combinations, and
let and be the values of the real roots corresponding then
                                                                                           ;

we must have                          x xi kxxx =

                                      x .r,            =            j3' «'

   · The formation of symmetrical combinations of any number of symbolical
quantities x, xu . . . ,rn-i, and the determination of their symbolical values
in terms of their sums (p,)> their products two and two (/is), three and three
(p3), and so on, involves no principle which not contained in the direct
                                                       is

processes of algebra, and altogether independent of the theory of equations.
The theorems for this purpose may be found in the first chapter of Waring'sr

                           i i.

                                      I
                                            is
Meditationes Atgebraicte, in Lagrange's Traits sur la Resolution des Equations
                                                       and 10, and with more or less detail in
Niimeriques, chap.        and notes             3

nearly  all  treatises    on Algebra.                  where u and
               .r, r= a.
        .i-               andx.r, =                                 are real magnitudes, then
t                                               /3.                 /3
   If                                               ,                   is

            +
/(r = --a- +
                          -- /3? the values of which are either real or of the form

(cos + \f-- sin                       \//3, where the modulus Sp real.
0
                     1
                                  6)
         REPORT ON CERTAIN BRANCHES OF ANALYSIS.                           301

and therefore                            J-ff

                        x x,      =      k-k}

                                         kya'-kp

                                           *, k '
                        +-_x  xx  -=

There are therefore necessarily two roots of the equation or two
values of the symbols x, xx, xv . . . xn_i, such that x + ar, and
xxy are real; and therefore it is always possible, in an equation
whose dimensions are impariter par, to depress them by two
unities, so that the reduced equation may still possess rational

coeIfffitchieentnsu.mber of symbols involved in the original problem be

22 m, then the number of their binary combinations must be
2 m (22 m -- 1) or impariter par. It will immediately follow, from
what we have already proved, that there are two values of the
sum and product of the same symbols, which are either real or
V'_of the form a + /3
                        1 ; and consequently the symbols them
Ifselves will admit of expression under a similar form *.

       the dimensions of the original equation be 23 m or 2* m, or
any one in an ascending series of orders of parity, it may be re
duced down to the next order of parity in a similar manner : and
under all circumstances it may be shown that there must be two
Vroots which                                               -- 1 , where a and /3
                                                       even dimensions, we
real or zero
         are reducible to the form a. + /3
         ; and also in any equation of

can reduce its dimensions successively by two unities, thus pro
         a series of equations of successive           or decreasing
ducing   in which we can demonstrate the                               orders of
parity,                                                existence of
                                                                      successive
pairs of roots of the required form until they are all exhausted.
This mode of proving the composition of equations differs
chiefly from that which was noticed by Laplace, in his lectures
         Ecole Normale   in 1795f , in the form in which the ques
to the   proposed. A    certain number of symbols, representing
tion is

magnitudes with unknown affections, are required to satisfy

· Let                   Vx + x' = r (cos 8 +           -- 1 sin 6)
                           Vx x' = 5 (cos <p+
                                                       -- l sin  i <p)
                                                                       '-
               x + xl3 -- xx' = R*(cos2^/+ \/^Tsin2^)4

         x -_       or x -- = x'  i|/ R   (cos^ 6+   V -- sin ip)i

                cos cos                + sin        + sin yp)
               r  x' 6  g+               (r         R
                           R
                                                    2

                     V= (cos + --r'xx           11  sin %)
                        = (cos -- V --              sin u).
                        r'
   Levant de I'Ecole Normale, torn. ii.
+
     302                 THIRD REPORT 1833.

     certain real conditions : those conditions are found to be iden
     tical with those which the unknown quantity, or, in other words,
     the root in an equation of n dimensions, is required to satisfy.
     The object of the proof above given is to show that it is always
     possible to find n real magnitudes with known affections which

     are competent to satisfy these conditions ; and those quantities,
     therefore, are of such a kind that the equation, whose roots
     they are, is always resolvible into real quadratic factors ; a most
     important conclusion, which the greatest analysts have laboured
     to deduce by methods which have not been, in most cases at
     least, free from very serious objections.
     There are two classes of demonstrations which have been
     given of this fundamental proposition in the theory of equations.
     The first class comprehends those in which the form of the
     roots is determined from the conditions which they are required
     to satisfy ; the second class, those in which the form of the
     roots is assumed to be comprehended under different values of
     V Ip and 0 in the expression p (cos 0 +
                                            -- sin  and                          shown
                                                    0),

                                                            it

                                                                  is

                                                                                             ;
     that they are competent to satisfy the conditions of the equa
     tion. To the first class belongs the demonstration given above
     those given by Lagrange in notes ix. and x. to his Resolution des
     Equations Nume'riques; the first of those given by Gauss in the
     Gottingen Transactions, (or. L8L6*; and by Mr. Ivory in his
     article on Equations in the Supplement to the Encyclopedia
     Britannica. To the second class belongs the second demon
     stration given by Gauss in the same volume of the Gottingen
     Transactions; by Legendre in the 14th section of the first
     Part of his Theorie des Nombres by Cauchy in the 18th
                                          ;

                                              is

                                                                              ;

                                                                        d'
     cahier of the Journal de VEcole Polytechnique and subse
     quently under slightly different form in his Cours Analyse
                      a

     Algibrique.
     The first of the demonstrations given by Gauss, like many
     other writings of that great analyst,      extremely difficult to
     follow, in consequence of the want of distinct enunciations of
     the propositions to be proved, and still more from their not
     always succeeding each other in the natural order of investi
                      requires the aid likewise of principles, or rather of
     gation.  It

     processes, which are too far advanced in the order of the re
     sults of algebra to be properly employed in the establishment
     Ifof a proposition which elementary in the order of truths,
                         is

     though may not be so in the order of difficulty.                            we may
              it

                  is
         · There another demonstration by Gauss, published in 1799, which        I
     have never seen. In his Preface to his Demonstratio Nova Altera he speaks
     of its being founded partly on geometrical considerations, and in other re
     spects as involving very different principles from the second.

~0\
              REPORT ON CERTAIN BRANCHES OF ANALYSIS.                                           303

be allowed, however, to consider it apart from such considera
tions, it would appear to be complete and satisfactory, and
very carefully guarded against any approach to an assumption
of the proposition to be proved, a defect to which most of the

demonstrations of this class are more or less liable *. It extends
to equations whose dimensions involve different or successive
orders of parities, nearly in the same manner as in the demon
stration which we have given above.
   The demonstration given by Mr. Ivory is different from any
other, and the principles involved in it are such as naturally
present themselves in such an investigation ; and it will be re
commended to many persons by its not involving directly the
tuisteie, s.orItsuisppnoots,inhgowtehveern,ecaeltsosagreytheexrisftreenecefromof,
                                                                                     imaginary    quan
                                                                                   some very    serious
defects in the form under which it at present appears, though
most of them admit of being remedied without any injury to
the general scheme of the demonstration, which is framed with
great skill, and which exhibits throughout a perfect command
over the most refined and difficult artifices of analysis.
Lagrange has devoted two notes to his great work on the
Resolution of Numerical Equations to the discussion of the
forms of the roots of equations. In the first of these notes,
after examining the very remarkable observations of D'Alem-
bert on the forms of imaginary quantities, he proceeds to con
               case of an equation                                                 V = 0,
fsider   the  rational function of x  ;suifchfor&dsiff(fexr)en+t                                where
   (x)  is a                                                                       values a     and b
        last term of this
of the  which is not real  efqouravtiaolnu,eswohferVe                 a Z. b, we may suppose
a root                                                                between those limits, to

become real at those limits, he then shows that for values

of V between those limits, and indefinitely near to them, the
corresponding root of the equation must involve V-- 1, or

>/ -- 1, or V -- 1, and so on; or, in other words, that the roots
of the equation in the transition of their values from real
to imaginary (whatever may be the affection of magnitude
which renders them imaginary), will change in form from a to
m + n */ -- 1 . He subsequently shows that the same result will

follow for any values of V between a and b, and consequently,

  I·    do not venture   ttoimsepseawk itmhorgereadtecciadreed, lyI;   for though I  have read it   en
        through several                                               do not retain  that distinct  and
tirely
clear conviction of the essential connexion of all its parts which is necessary
to compel assent to the truth of a demonstration. It is unfortunately fre
quently the character of many of the higher and more difficult investigations
connected with the general theory of the composition and solution of equa
tions to leave a vague and imperfect impression of their truth and correctness
even upon the minds of the most laborious and best instructed readers.
304             THIRD REPORT-- 1833.

that in every instance, when roots of equations cease to be real,
they will assume the form m + n */ -- 1.
This demonstration is not merely indirect, but it does not
arise naturally from the question to be investigated. It seems
likewise to assume the existence of some algebraical form which
expresses the value of the root in terms of the coefficients of
the equation, an assumption which, as will afterwards be seen,
it would be difficult to justify by any a priori considerations.
The illustrious author himself seems to have felt the full force
of these objections, and he proceeds therefore in the following
Note to prove that every polynomial of a rational form will ad
mit of rational divisors of the first or second degree. The de
monstration which he has given is founded upon the theory of
symmetrical functions, and shows that the coefficients of such
a divisor may be made to depend severally upon equations all
whose coefficients are rational functions of the coefficients of
the polynomial dividend. Whatever be the degree of parity of
 the number which expresses the dimensions of this polynome,
 he shows the possibility of the coefficients of this quadratic di-
. visor, which is the capital conclusion in the theory. It ought
to be observed, however, that the whole theory of the compo
sition of equations is so much involved in the different steps of
this investigation, or, at all events, that so little provision is
made in conducting it to guard against the assumption of
this truth, that we should not be justified in considering this
Ifdemonstration as perfectly independent or as furnishing an
adequate foundation for so important a conclusion.                                                                                             we view
it, however, simply with reference to the problem for exhibiting
the nature of the law of dependence which connects the coeffi
cients of the polynomial factor with those of the original poly
nomial dividend, it must still be considered as an investigation
of no inconsiderable importance, as bearing upon the general
theory of the solution and depression of equations.

   The second of the proofs given by Gauss, the proof of Le-
gendre, and both of those which have been given by Cauchy,
belong to the second class of demonstrations to which we
have referred above. Assuming the root to be represented

V-lby p (cos 0 + »/ -- 1 sin the equation reduced to the form
is P     ·--
                                                  sin f); and the
        Qof the
                                               there exist neces
                          1,

                                                       p
                                                        9),

                                                                         9,

                                                    is .

                                                                                                 <p

                                                                      is

                                                                                                                                            ;
    +            or ^/(P2 + Q2)  (cos +
object          demonstration    to show that
sarily real values of and which make P2 + Q* = 0. This
    effected by Gauss by processes which are somewhat syn
thetical in their form, and such as do not arise very natu
rally or directly from the problem to be investigated and the
           REPORT ON CERTAIN BRANCHES OF ANALYSIS.                            305

essential part of the demonstration requires a double integra
tion between assigned limits, a process against which serious
objections may in this instance be raised, independently of its
involving analytical truths and principles of too advanced an
order.
The demonstration of Legendre depends upon the possible
                            or other means,        of values of
discovery, by   tentative  very small ; and                                   g and 9,
which render                                      subsequently                requires
                P and Q
us, by the application of the ordinary processes of approxima
tion,  to find  moatyherrevnadlueersPoafn§d
tion,  which                                 and   9, subject to repeated correc
                                                  smaller and smaller, and ulti
                                              Q
mately equal to zero. The objection to this demonstration, if
so it may                  thg eanadbs6e;ncaendofifanthyepyrosohfouolfdthbee
existence  be called,  is                                                     necessary
                                                                              shown to
           of values   of

exist, it seems to fail in showing that the subsequent correc
tions of their values which this process would assign would really
and necessarily increase the required approximations.
   The demonstrations of Cauchy are formed upon the general

scheme of that which is given by Legendre, at the same time
that they seem to avoid the very serious defects under which
that demonstration     labours : he shows that (P2 + Q2) must ad
                       and that this minimum value must be zero.
mit of a minimum,
The second of the demonstrations differs from the first merely
in the manner of establishing the existence and value of this
minimum : they both of them appear to me to be quite com
plete and satisfactory.

   It is not very difficult to establish this fundamental propo
sition by reasonings derived from the geometrical representa
tion of impossible quantities. This was done, though imper
fectly, by M. Argand, in the fifth volume of Gergonne's An
nates des Mathematiques* , and has been since reconsidered by
M. Murey, in a very fanciful work upon the geometrical in
terpretation of imaginary quantities, which was published in

1827. It seems to me, however, to be a violation of propriety

to make such interpretations which are conventional merely,
and not necessary, the foundation of a most important symbo
lical truth, which should be considered as a necessary result of
the first principles of algebra, and which ought to admit of de
monstration by the aid of those principles alone.
   General Solution of Equations.-- The solution of equations
in its most general sense would require the expression of its
roots by such functions of their coefficients as were competent

· In the fourth volume of the same collection there are demonstrations of
this fundamental proposition, given by M. Dubourguet and M. Encontre,
which do not appear, however, to merit a more particular notice.
                                             x
1833.
300 THIRD REPORT -- 1833.

to express them, when those coefficients were general symbols,
though representing rational numbers. Such functions also
must equally express all the roots, in as much as they are all of
them equally dependent upon the coefficients for their value ;
and they must express likewise the values of no quantities which
are not roots of the equation.
The problem, in fact, is the inverse of that for the formation
of the equation which is required to satisfy assigned condi
tions. And as we have shown that there always exist quanti
ties expressible by the ordinary signs of algebra which will fulfil
the conditions of any equation with rational coefficients, so like
wise we might appear to be justified in concluding that there
must exist explicable functions of those coefficients which in all
Acases would be competent to represent those roots.

       very little consideration, however, would show that such a
conclusion was premature. In the first place, such a function
must be irrational, in as much as all rational functions of the
coefficients admit but of one value ; and they must be such ir
rational functions of the   ectqhoueeafftiricooienont, st--,s --faoasrnwdthileltyhseumycucmestsusbsivteebelyequicanalslpyualabctlaee-
the several roots of the

         of expressing all
(riknebwleise of effecting this insulation without any reference to the
specific values of the symbols involved, or to the relation of the
values of the roots themselves ; for otherwise they could not be
said to represent the general solution of any equation whatever
of a given degree. The question which naturally presents it
self, after the enumeration of such conditions, is, whether we
could conclude that any succession of operations which are, pro
Ifperly speaking, algebraical, would be competent to fulfil them.
        it be further considered that those successive operations
must be assigned beforehand for every general equation of an
assigned degree ; that every one of these operations can give
one real value only, or at the most two ; and that the result of

these operations, which must embrace all the coefficients, must
express the n roots of the equation and those roots only ; it
will readily be conceded that the solution of this great pro
blem is probably one which will be found to transcend the
powers of analysis.
The solutions of cubic and biquadratic equations have been
known for nearly three centuries ; and all the attempts which
have hitherto been made to proceed beyond them, at least in
equations in which there exists no relation of dependence
amongst the several coefficients, and no presumed or presuma
ble relation amongst the roots, have altogether failed of success :

and if we consider that this great problem has been subjected to
                 REPORT ON CERTAIN BRANCHES OF ANALYSIS.                                   307

 the most scrutinizing and laborious examination by nearly all
the greatest analysts who have lived in that period, we may be
justified in concluding that this failure is rather to be attributed
to the essential impossibility of the problem itself than to the
want of skill or perseverance on the part of those who have
made the attempt. But in the absence of any complete and
uncontrovertible proof of this impossibility, the question cannot
be considered as concluded, and will still remain open to spe
culations upon the part of those with whom extensive and well-
matured knowledge, and a deep conviction founded upon have
not altogether extinguished hope.

   The different methods which have been proposed for the
resolution of cubic and biquadratic equations, and the conse
quences of the extension of their principles to the solution of
equations of higher orders, have been subjected to a very de
tailed analysis by Lagrange, in the Berlin Memoirs for 1770
and 1771, and in the Notes xiii. and xiv. of his Traite sur la
                 a

                                                         ;

                                                    it

                                                                   a
                                                                           it,
Resolution des Equations Numeriques and would be diffi
cult to refer to any investigations of this great analyst which are
better calculated to show the extraordinary power which he
possessed of referring methods apparently the most distinct to
  common principle of much higher and more comprehensive
generality. In the subsequent remarks which we shall make,
is awe shall rarely have occasion to proceed beyond notice of the
              ageneral conclusions to which he has arrived, and to show their

beAarivnegryupsolinghstomeexalmatienar tsiopnecuolaftiothnes   upon the   same subject.
solution of the equations of                                  principles  involved in the
show them to be inapplicable
                                          ttohethtohsierdofanhdighfoeurrtohrdedresg.reesA  will
                                                                                           no
tice of very few of such methods will be quite sufficient for
our purpose.
Thus, the ordinary solution of the cubic equation
                 x3 -- Sqx 2r = 0*
                                  2
m" aTdoe       to depend upon that       +of the following            problem:
               find two numbers or                                    that the
                                          quantities such                       sum        of
Iftheir cubes shall be equal to r and their product equal to q."

        we represent the required numbers by u and v, we readily
obtain the equation of reduction
                 u6-2rua + =
                                            C q*              0, 0,
· This equation may be considered as equally general with
                                          .r -- =                  a
                 3? -- *"
                 A
                        +
                             B

in as much as we can pass from one to the other by very easy transforma;
tion and the same remark may be extended to equations of higher orders.a
Such change of form, however, will determine the applicability or inappli

x2cability of many of the methods which are proposed for their solution.
308 THIRD REPORT -- 1833.

· -which gives, when solved as a quadratic equation,
                  ,,3 = r +           (r* 9s),

and consequently,

                     u={r+ S(r*-?>)y,
and therefore
                                    2
            _1_

  If we call 1, «, a?, the three cube roots of 1, or the roots of

the equation a3 -- 1 = 0, and if we assume a to represent the

arithmetical value of u, we shall obtain the following three
values of u + v, which are

              -- --a + --a<7, a a H   Q*-,  ac?a  -\    Q
                                    aa                ac2t-*5.

These values, though derived from the solution of an equation
of six dimensions *, are only three    in number, and form, there
fore, the roots of a cubic equation.
                                        A little further inquiry will
-Sqxshow that they are the roots of the cubic equation

                        a? + 2r = 0:

for it may readily be shown, in the first place, that their sum
= 0 ; that the sum of their products two and two = -- 3 q; and

that their continued product = 2r; or in other words, that
they are the roots of an equation which is in every respect iden
tical with the equation in question f.

* There are six values of u, in as much as the values of u and v are inter

changeable, from the form in which the problem was proposed ; but there are
only three values of u + v.
+ Since       *o             -,     {, r-                 ,1
                                 =          V(r*-     g5)}*

it is usual to express the roots of the equation x3 -- 3qx + 2r = 0, by the

formula

*={r+ V(r*-q>)}$ + {r-V(r>- ?)}*,                                      (1.)

which is in a certain sense incorrect, in as much as it admits of nine values
instead of three. The six additional values are the roots of the two equations

                  a' -- 3«}i + 2r = 0,

                  x3 -- 3et^gx + 2r = 0,

band the formula (1.) expresses the complete solution of the equation

                                       (xs -- 2 r)« -- 11 q*x* 0,

which is of 9 dimensions. It is the formula

              *="+-£-, where u = {r + V (r* -- j«) }i

and has the same value in both terms of the expression, which corresponds to

the equation                 x* -- 3qx + 2r = 0.
          REPORT ON CERTAIN BRANCHES OF ANALYSIS.                                                 309

altTohgeisthmerodfeailofifeftfhecetinogrigtihnealsoeqluutaiotinonofpaoscsuebssicedequalaltiiotsn   would
                                                                                                  terms :
and though the absence of the second term of a cubic equation
cannot be said, in a certain          sense at least, to
                                     it would lead us to         affect the gene
rality of its character, yet                                     expect that the
method which we had followed was of so limited a nature as not
                                     equations of a higher                                         Thus,
to  be applicable to  general                                    order.                           sum of
    it was proposed   to find        two quantities, u and       v, the
if

whose m01 powers was equal to 2 r, and whose product was equal
to q, we should find

          - -u = {r + S(r*-q*)}±.                                qJ
    u + v = {r + ./ (r4                  Vi                           j-)}-T,
                                                                 (r*
                                     a*)} » +
                                                     {r +

where u + v is the root of the equation

                                  + &c. = 2 r*.
   The form of this equation is of such a kind as to prevent its
being identified with any general equation whatever, beyond a
cubic equation wanting the second term ; a circumstance which
precludes all further attempts, therefore, to exhibit the roots of

fhigher equations by radicals of this very simple order : but

irtthooeistmsp, oowsfhsiihcbihlgehaetrheraietnqvtuhaaertriiaoenbslmeaa(ysnofeatxrissaytsmdtmehteeetrprmeicrianmlauttefautnifocuntnsiocntsioofntsohefoarfollothtosef
amongst each other are concerned,) which may admit of triple
values only, and which will be expressible, therefore, by means
of a cubic equation, and consequently by the general formula
for its solution.

   Thus, if a;,, xit a.-3, xv were assumed to represent the roots of

a biquadratic equation

    · This equation was first solved by Demoivre in the Philosophical Trans
actions for 1737, and it was readily derived from the theorem which goes by
his name. It was afterwards shown to be true, by a process, however, not al
                    bAybeElu'sler,"  in the sixth volume of the  Comment. Acad. Petrop.,
together  general,                   Memoire sur une Classe      particuliere d'Equations
p. 226.   See also
resolubles alg^briquement," in Crelle's Journal, vol. iv.
  t Abel has     used the    term    radicality to designate such expressions.                               To
                  that the   root    of an equation is  seoxlpvraebslseiblealgbebyrariacdalilcya. liiiesIt,
say, therefore,              that     the equation is                                                          is
the same thing    as to say                                                                                   is

used in contradistinction to such transcendental functions, whether of a known
or unknown nature, as may, possibly, be competent to express those roots,
when all general algebraical methods fail to determine them.
310 THIRD REPORT 1833.

            x* -- p x3 + q x* -- r x + s -- 0,                       (1.)

such functions would be xx ar2 + x3 x4 and (xt + xi -- x3 -- x^f,
which admit but of three different values, and which may seve
rally form, therefore, the roots of cubic equations, whose coeffi
            expressible in terms  of the        coefficients of  itfhwe eosrhigoinualdl
cients are  Such a function also  would
equation.                                       be (xx + x^f,
suppose p or the coefficient of the second term of equation (1.)
to be zero *. The function (x, + x9) (x3 + x4) would give
three values only under all circumstances. The functions xt
+ xi + x3 and x} xi   axd3maitreofcabpeainbgle    of four  different values,
                                                            by a determina
and therefore do not                            expressed
ble equation of lower dimensions than the primitive equation.
Functions of the  efoqrumatioxxnsx9 oafdsmixit   of six values, and  require for
their expression                                dimensions, which    are reduci
                              of being quasi recurring                      fo.f
ble to three, in consequence  be formed which admit              equations
Innumerable functions may
                                                                 of 12 and
24 values, and one alternate function which admits of two values

only J.

   The success of such transformations in reducing the dimen
sions of the equation to be solved, would naturally direct us to
the research of similar functions of the roots of higher equa
tions than the fourth, which admit of values whose number is
          to the dimensions of the equation. We may presume
inferior  such functions exist, they are rational functions, for
          their irrationality would increase the dimensions of
that, if
if not,
the reducing equation, and would tend to distribute its roots
into cyclical periods ; and what is more, it has been very

clearly proved that if equations admit of algebraical solution,
all the algebraical functions which are jointly or separately in
volved in the expression of their roots, will be equal to rational

   · The first of these transformations involves the principles of Ferrari's, some
times called Waring's, solution of biquadratic equations ; the second that of
Euler ; and the third that of Des Cartes. See the third chapter of Meyer
Hirsch's Sammlung von Aufgaben aus tier Theorie der algebraischen Gleichungen,
which contains the most complete collection of formulae and of propositions
relating to symmetrical and other functions of the roots of equations with
which I am acquainted. The combinatory analysis receives its most advan
tageous and immediate applications in investigations connected with the
theory of such functions. See also Peacock's Algebra, note, p. 619.

  f The form of its roots being u and --, they are reducible by the same me

thods as are applied to recurring equations.

   J See Cauchy, Cours d' Analyse, chap. iii. and note iv. The use of such al
ternate functions in the elimination of the several unknown quantities from n

simultaneous equations of the first order, involving n unknown quantities,
will be noticed hereafter.
REPORT ON CERTAIN BRANCHES OF ANALYSIS.                                    311

functions of these roots ; and consequently, if irrational func
tions of those roots are employed in the formation of the re
ducing equation, the roots of the equation must enter into the
Iffinal expression of the required roots, in a form where that ir
rationality has altogether disappeared *.                                  we assume, there
fore, that such functions are in all cases rational, the next ques
tion will be, whether they are discoverable in higher equations
than the fourth.
This inquiry was undertaken by Paolo Ruffini, of Modena,
in his Teoria delle Equazione Algebraiche, published at Bo
logna in 1799, and subsequently in the tenth volume of the
Memorie della Societa Italiana, in a memoir on the impossibi
lity of solving equations of higher degrees than the fourth.
He has demonstrated that the number of values of such func
tions of the roots of an equation of n dimensions must be either
equal to 1 . 2 . 3 . . . w, or to some submultiple of it ; and that
when » = 5, there is no such function, the alternate function
being excluded, which possesses less than 5 values. The pro
cess of reasoning which is employed by the author for this pur-

· This proposition has been proved by Abel, in his Beweis der Unmoglich-

keit algebraiscKe Gleichungen von hoheren Graden als dem vierten allgemein
Aufzulosen, in the first volume of Crelle's Journal : the same demonstration
was printed at Paris, in a less perfectly developed form, during his residence
in that capital. This proof applies to algebraical solutions only, excluding
the consideration of the possibility of expressing such roots by the aid of un
known transcendents. After defining the most general form of algebraical
functions of any assigned degree and order ; and after demonstrating the pro
position referred to in the text, and analysing the demonstrations of Ruffini and
Cauchy, and showing their precise bearing upon the theory of the solution
of equations, he proceeds to show that the hypothesis of the existence of
such a solution in an equation of five dimensions will necessarily lead to an
equation, one member of which has 120 values and the other only 10 ; an ab

surd conclusion. It is quite impossible to exhibit this demonstration in
a very abridged form so as to make it intelligible ; and though some parts of

it are obscure and not perfectly conclusive, yet it is, perhaps, as satisfactory,
upon the whole, as the nature of the subject will allow us to expect.
   It is impossible to mention the name of M. Abel in connexion with this
subject, without expressing our sense of the great loss which the mathematical
sciences have sustained by his death. Like other ardent young men, he com
menced his career in analysis by attempting the general solution of an equa
tion of five dimensions, and was for some time seduced by glimpses of an
imagined success \ but he nobly compensated for his error by furnishing the
most able sketch of a demonstration of its impossibility which has hitherto
appeared. His subsequent discoveries in the theory of elliptic functions,
which were almost simultaneous with those of Jacobi, have contributed most
materially to change the whole aspect of one of the most difficult branches of
avennatliyveticaglensciuiesn.ce,Heanddiedfuornf icsohnseuvemrypwtihoenr,e    proofs of a most vigorous and in
                                                                           at Christiania in Norway, in 1827,

in the 27th year of his age.
312                      THIRD REPORT 1833.

pose is exceedingly difficult to follow, being unnecessarily en
cumbered with vast multitudes of forms of combination, and
requiring a very tedious and minute examination of different
classes of cases ; and it was, perhaps, as much owing to the
necessary obscurity of this very difficult inquiry as to any im
                    in   the demonstration itself, that doubts were ex
perfection          its  correctness by Malfatti * and other contemporary
pressed of
writers. The subject, however, has been resumed by Cauchy in
the tenth volume of the Journal de VEcole Poly technique, who

has fully  saonmdewchleaat rlmy odreemgoennsetrraaltedthanthethaftololofwRinugffinpiro:po"siTtihoant,
which is
the number of different values of any rational function of n
quantities, is a submultiple of 1 . 2 . 3 . . . n, and cannot be re
Ifduced below the greatest prime number contained in n, without

becoming equal to 2 or to 1." we grant, therefore, the truth
of this proposition, it will be in vain to seek for the reduction
of equations of higher dimensions than the fourth, by transfor
mations dependent upon rational functions of the roots.
The establishment of this proposition forms an epoch in the
history of the progress of our knowledge of the theory of equa
tions, in as much as it so greatly limits the objects of research
iAnnadtteifmtphtes   to discover the general methods  for their solution.
                                                      likewise admitted,
                    demonstration of Abel should be
there would be an end of any further prosecution of such in
quiries, at least with the views with which they are commonly
undertaken.
   Lagrange, in his incomparable analysis of the different me
thods which have been proposed for the solution of biquadratic
and higher equations, has shown their common relation to each
other, and that they all of them equally tend to the formation of
a reducing equation, whose root is

                      xl + a Xi + a* x3 + u3 x4 + &c.
where xv xv x3, &c, are the roots of the primitive equation,
and where a is a root of the equation

                 «"-' + a"-s + a"-3 + . . . a + 1 = 0,

where n expresses the dimensions of the equation to be solved.
   He then reverses the inquiry, and assuming this form as

correctly representing the root of the reducing equation, he

fseeks to determine its dimensions. The beautiful process which

he has employed for this purpose is so well known that it is
quite unnecessary to describe it in this place ; and the result,

                    f* Memorie delta Soc. Hal., torn. xi.
                       Resolution des Equations Numeriques, Note xiii.
            REPORT ON CERTAIN BRANCHES OF ANALYSIS.                                             313

    as might be expected, perfectly agrees with the conclusions
    ...Ifwhich are derived from more direct, and, perhaps, more ge
    neral considerations.            », or the number of roots xv xv x3,
                                     then the dimensions of the final re
    &c, be a prime number,            (n -- 2) ; and if n be a compo
ducing equation will be 1 . 2
    site number = mp, then the dimensions of the final reducing
equation will be
          - .pf -1.2...»                                               1 .2.. .n
                                                                      \)p . (1 . 2 . . . *»)"'
         (m 1) m . (1 . 2 . .
                                      or (p

            is
                    6

                     p

                                      is ; it,

                                                                   ;

                                                       5
                                                            +
according as we arrive at by grouping the terms of the ex

pression

                            xixx + a  + <xe0-3                        &c.

into m periods of terms, or intojo periods of m terms. thus
                                                                           6

                                                                                   It
appears, that for an equation of dimensions, the final reducing
equation of dimensions for an equation of dimensions,
the final reducing equation           of 10 dimensions in one mode of
derivation and 15 in the other and the higher the dimensions
of the equation are, the greater will be the excess of the dimen
sions of the final reducing equation. And in as much as there
exist no periodical or other relations amongst the roots of these
                                     obvious that the application of this
reducing equations,         it

                                 is

process, and therefore also of any of those primary methods
    which lead to the assumption of the form of the roots of the
    reducing equation, must increase instead of diminishing the
    difficulties of the solution which was required to be found.
      It was the imagined discovery of a cyclical period amongst
    the roots of this reducing equation which induced Meyer Hirsch,
      mathematician of very considerable attainments, to believe
is athat he had discovered methods for the general solution of equa
    tions of the fifth and higher degrees. Amongst the different
    methods which Lagrange has analysed in the Berlin Memoirs
      that which Tschirnhausen proposed in the Acta Eruditorum
    for 1683. It proposed to exterminate, by means of an auxiliary
    equation, all the terms of the original equation except the first
    and the last, and thus to reduce                                  to binomial equation.
    Thus, in order to exterminate the second term of x* + a xit
    + = we must employ the auxiliary equation + A + x
       0, b                                           .;                       y
               0,                                                                     y
    = and then eliminate x. To exterminate simultaneously .a
                          third terms of the cubic equation x3
    the  second and  0, 0,we must employ the auxiliary equation                        +        a x*
    +
         x+ =                                                                                   +A
       Bb

                  c
    + x + x* = and then eliminate x and more generally, to
    destroy all the intermediate terms of an equation of n dimen

    sions,           a." a, a;"-1 + «2 x"-" + . an --

                     +                                                     0,
314 THIRD REPORT -- 1833.

we must employ the auxiliary equation
Ay +
      + A, x + Aa .r9 + . . . ar*"1 = 0,

whose dimensions are less by 1 than those of the given equation.
   Such a process is apparently very simple and uniform and
equally applicable to all equations ; and so it appeared to its
author. But it will be found that the equations upon which

the determination of A, A,, A9, depend, in an equation of the
fourth degree, will rise to the sixth degree, which are subse
quently reducible to others of the third degree ; and that for
an equation of the fifth degree, it will be impossible to reduce
them below the sixth degree. Such was the decision of La
grange, who has subjected this process to a most laborious
analysis, and who has actually calculated one of the coefficients
of the final reducing equation, and shown the mode in which
the others may be determined *.
   Meyer Hirsch, however, though fully adopting the conclu
sions of Lagrange to this extent, attempted to proceed further;
and, deceived by the form which he gave to his types of combina
tion, imagined that he had discovered cyclical periods amongst
Ifthe roots of this final equation, by which it might be resolved
into two equations of the third degree.  such a distribution
of the roots was practicable in the case of the final equation cor
responding to equations of the fifth degree, it would be practi
cable in that corresponding to equations of higher degrees.
But some consequences of this discovery, and particularly the
multiplicity of solutions which it gave, would have startled an
analyst whose prudence was not laid asleep by the excitement
consequent upon the expected attainment of a memorable ad
vancement in analysis, which had eluded the grasp even of
Lagrange. Its author, however, was too profound an analyst
to continue long ignorant at once of the consequences of his
error and of the source from which it sprung. In the Preface
to his Integraltafeln, an excellent work, which was published
in 1810, within two years of the announcement of his discovery,
he acknowledges with great modesty and propriety, that he
had not succeeded in effecting general solutions of equations
in the sense in which the problem was understood by Euler,
Lagrange, and the greatest analysts.
   The well known Hoene de Wronski, in a short pamphlet pub
lished in 181 1, announced a method for the general resolution of
equations. He assumes hypothetical expressions for the roots of
the given equation in terms of the n roots of 1 , and of the (m -- 1 )

   · In the Berlin Memoirs for 1771, p. 170 : it forms a work of prodigious
labour, such as few persons would venture to undertake or to repeat.
          REPORT ON CERTAIN BRANCHES OF ANALYSIS.       315

roots of a reduced equation   of (n -- 1) dimensions, and employs
in the determination of the   coefficients of this reduced equation

»"-' fundamental equations,   designated by the Hebrew  letter tf,
and n"-1 others designated
                              by the Greek letter fl.   It is un
necessary, however, to enter upon an examination of the truth
of processes which the author who proposes them has left un-
demonstrated ; and in as much as the application of his method
to an equation of 5 dimensions would require the formation of
625 fundamental equations of the class Aleph and 125 of the
class Omega, and the determination of the greatest common
measure of 2 polynomials of 24 and 30 dimensions respectively,
it was quite clear that M. Wronski might in perfect safety retire
behind an intrenchment of equations and operations of this
formidable nature. And this was the position which he took
in answer to M. Gergonne, who, in the third volume of the An
nales de Mathematiques, in the modest form of doubts, showed
that the form of the roots which he had assumed was not essen
tially different from those which Waring, Bezout, and Euler,
had assumed, and which Lagrange had shown to be incompa
tible with the existence of a final reducing equation of the di
mensions assigned to it*.
The process given by Lagrange for determining the dimen
sions and nature of the final reducing equation has been the
touchstone by which all the methods which have been hitherto
proposed for the solution of equations have been tried, and will
probably continue to serve the same purpose for all similar at
tempts which may be hereafter made. Its illustrious author,

however, hesitated to pronounce a decisive opinion respecting
the possibility of the problem, contenting himself with demon
strating it to be so, with reference to every method which had
been suggested, or which could be shown to arise naturally out

* The works of Hoene de Wronski were received with extraordinary favour
in Portugal, where the Baron Stockier, a mathematician of considerable at
tainments, and other members of the Academy of Sciences became converts
to his opinions. There is, in fact, a bold and imposing generality, and appa
rent comprehensiveness of views in his speculations, which are well calculated
to deceive a reader whose mind is not fortified by the possession of an extensive
                              of analysis.     In the year 1817, the Academy of
and well  digested knowledge  as a prize,   "  The demonstration of Wronski's
Sciences  at Lisbon proposed
formulae for the general resolution of equations," which was adjudged in the
following year to an excellent refutation of their truth by the academician
Evangelista Torriani : it chiefly consists in showing, and that very clearly,
that the coefficients of                         of (n -- 1) dimensions, assuming
the form of the roots     the reducing equation  Wronski assigned to them, can
                          of the equation which
not be symmetrical functions of those roots, and therefore cannot be expressed
by the coefficients of the primitive equation, whatever be the number, nature
and derivation of the fundamental equations      and CI which are interposed.
316 THIRD REPORT -- 1833.

of the conditions of the problem itself. But even if we should
assume the impossibility of the problem, to the full extent of
Abel's demonstration, it is still possible that there may exist

solutions by means of undiscovered transcendents. It is, in fact,
quite impossible to attempt to limit the resources of analysis, or
to demonstrate the nonexistence of symbolical forms which may
be competent to fulfil every condition which the solution of this
problem may require. In conformity with such views, we may
consider the numerical roots of equations as the only discover
able values of such transcendental functions ; but it is quite
obvious that such values will in no respect assist us in deter
mining their nature or symbolical form, in the absence of any
knowledge of the course of successive operations upon all the
coefficients of the equation which were required for their de

termination.

   Though we may venture to despair, at least in the present
limited state of our knowledge of transcendental functions, of
ever effecting the general resolution of equations, in the large
sense in which that problem is commonly proposed and under
stood, yet there are large classes of equations of all orders
which admit of perfect algebraical solution. The principal pro-

          of the roots of the binomial equation x" -- 1 = 0, had
1l>onegrtiebseen ascertained by the researches of Waring and La
                    general transcendental solution had
grange,   and its      Its algebraical solution, however,                   been   com
pletely  effected.                                                           had   been
limited to values of n not exceeding 10 ; and though Vander-
monde in some very remarkable researches *, which were con
temporary with those of Lagrange, had given the solution of
the equation x" -- 1 = 0, as a consequence of his general me
thod for the solution of equations, and had asserted that it
could be extended to those of higher dimensions, yet his solu
tion contained no developement of the peculiar theory of such
cboinvoermy,ialifesquucahtioitnsm, ayanbde  was so little understood, that his dis
                                            termed, remained a barren fact, which
in no way contributed to the advancement of our analytical

knowledge.

   The appearance of the Disquisitiones Arithmeticce of the

" Me'moires de I'Acadhnie de Paris for 1771- The result only of this solu
tion was given, the steps of the process by which it was obtained being omitted.
This result has been verified by Lagrange in Note xiv. to his Trakt sur la
Resolution des Equations                           Poinsot, in a memoir on         solution
of the congruence «" -- 1  N=umMeriq(upe),s.  which will be noticed in the  the     has at
                                                                            text,

tempted to set up a prior claim in favour of Vandermonde for Gauss's memo
rable discovery ; in doing so, however, he appears to have been more influ
enced by his national predilections in favour of his countrymen, than by a
strict regard to historical truth and justice.
          REPORT ON CERTAIN BRANCHES OF ANALYSIS.                         317

   celebrated Gauss, in 1801, gave an immense extension to our
   knowledge of the theory and solution of such binomial equa-
                                                             j =0,
tions. It was well known that the roots of the equation

where n is a prime number, could be expressed by the terms of

the series

                          r + r* + r3 + . . . r*~l,
where r represented any root whatever of the equation, and
where, consequently, the first term r might be replaced by any
term of the series. But in this form of the roots there is pre
sented no means of distributing them into cyclical periods, nor
even of ascertaining the existence of such periods or of determin
ing their laws. It was the happy substitution of a geometrical
series formed by the successive powers of a primitive root* of n,
in place of the arithmetical series of natural numbers, as the in

jdices of r, which enabled him to exhibit not merely all the dif-

ferent roots of the equation x--* -- 1 = 0, but which also made

manifest   the cyclical periods   which existed     amongst    them.
          a was a primitive root  of n, and n -- 1  = mk,    then in
Thus, if
the series

the m successive series which are formed by the selection of
every A* term, beginning with the first, the second, the third,
and so on successively, or the k successive series which are
formed in a similar manner   by the selection of every »»* term,
                             number m or k of terms in one of
are periodical ; and if the
those periods be a composite number, they will further admit of
resolutions into periods in the same manner with the complete
series of roots  of  the  equation. The   terms of  such periods          will
be reproduced    in  the                            produced to           any
                          same order, if  they are
extent according to the same law, it being understood that the
multiples of » which are included in the indices which succes
sively arise, are rejected, for the purpose of exhibiting their
Ifvalues and their laws of formation in the most simple and ob
vious form.      two or more periods also are multiplied together,
the product will be composed of complete periods or of 1 , or of
multiples of them, the rules for whose determination are easily

n  *   There are as' many primitive roots of n as there are numbers less  than
   --  1 which are prime to it. Euler, who first noticed such primitive   roots

as determined by Fermat's theorem, determined them by an empirical pro
cess. Mr. Ivory, in his admirable article on Equations, in the Supplement
to the Encyclopedia Britatmica, has given a rule for finding them directly.
318                      THIRD REPORT 1833.

framed * ; and it arises from the application of such rules that
we are enabled to determine the coefficients of an equation of

which those periods are the roots, and thus to depress the
original binomial equation to one whose dimensions are the
                            which is    a divisor of n -- 1.
greatest prime number,                  highest prime factor          of n  --     1
                           that if the
   It follows, therefore,
be 2, the resolution of the binomial equation x" -- 1 = 0 will
be made to depend upon the solution of quadratic equations
only, and consequently to depend upon constructions which
can be effected by combinations of straight lines and circles,
and therefore within the strict province of plane geometry :
this will  take place     whenever n is  equal to             2*  +  1 and  is also
a prime    number.                        we have              n  =  17, a  prime
                         Thus, if k = 4
number, and therefore the solution of the equation x17 -- 1= 0
will be reducible to that of four quadratic equations. Similar

- -observations apply to the equations                        1 = 0.
           ar2" + 1      1 = 0 and ar2'" + ]

The same principles which enable us to solve algebraically
binomial equations, under the circumstances above noticed, will
fadmit of extension

admit of analogous
                         to other classes of equations,              whose roots
                         relations amongst each other.               Gauss has
stated that the principles of his theory were applicable to func-

/ _tions dependent upon the transcendent                . ,,         ,,, which de

fines the arcs of the lemniscata, as well as to various species of

congruencies ; and he has also partially applied them to certain
classes of equations dependent upon angular sections, though
in a form which is very imperfectly and very obscurely deve
loped. Abel,    however, in        a memoir % which is remarkable for
the generality                     and for its minute and careful ana
                of its views

lysis, has not merely completed Gauss's theory, but made most
important additions to particularly in the solution of exten
§ j+

          It
                                                  1.
                                   §. it,
                                                                                                                                (
                                                                                                                                                                1)
sive classes of equations which present themselves in the theory
of elliptic transcendents          Thus he has given the complete

· Symmetrical functions of these periods will be multiples of the sum --
of these periods and of  This conclusion follows immediately from the re
placement of the arithmetical by the geometrical series of indices, according
to the general process of Lagrange, without any antecedent distribution of
the roots into periods. See Note xiv. to the Resolution des Equations NtmU-
           follows from thence that the coefficients of the reducing equations
riaues.

will be whole numbers.
     _"DiSsquur isuinteionCelassAsreithpmaretitcicusli,ereppd. '5E9q5u,at6i4o5n.s resolubles algcbriquement,"
Crete's Journal, vol. iv. p. 131.
     Crelle's Journal, vol. iv. p. 314, and elsewhere.
           REPORT ON CERTAIN BRANCHES OF ANALYSIS.                                                                      819

algebraical resolution of an equation whose roots can be repre

sented by            xjx, Px,                                V-lx,

where V x = x, and where 0 is a rational function of x and of
known quantities ; and also of an equation where all the roots
can    be expressed rationally in terms                    of one    of them, and where,
      x and 0, x express any other two                      of the   roots, we have like
if 0

wise                            0 0, a? = 0,0 x.

  It is impossible, however, within a space much less than that
of the memoir itself, to give any intelligible account of the pro
cess followed in the demonstration of these propositions, and
of many others which are connected with them. We shall con
tent ourselves, therefore, with a slight notice of their applica

tion to circular functions.

  If --we suppose a -- , the equation whose roots are cos a,

cos 2 a, cos 3 a, . . . cos     a

  * -0of--- -^**-2 ++ 1--6-         ~
           4                                               ^s»-4 ···-"                                              (1*I0)
                                    E ft.1.2

                                   fr

                                               is
                                                     3)

which may     --befoera,siilny   shown to possess               the     required form and
properties                      the first place, cos                 =
                                                               ma    of    &  (cos   a), where
                                                                            cos a
                                                                                     or x; and,
      is                                                                                                            is

          6                                                                                                                    0
              0, ;

                             |*

                      if

                                  20
                                          +
                                                   1,
is, as well known, a rational function                                  x    = cos m1 a,
                                     x = cos m a                               x, which
in the second  place,           m mx a = cos ml              and    0,                                                  then
               = cos                                         ma                                                           the
likewise x                                                        =     0,
                                                                            0

second condition which was required to be fulfilled.
Let us suppose = n                                     when the roots of the equation
(1.) will be
           2TSiTr T                4w                               4air
      cos            cos                               ''    cos               cos                               2  *'
                                21T+T                             2T+T
              -L
of which the last               and the n first of the remainder equal to
                       is
                             1,

                           -L

                                   (,,
                                         is

                                     i) '
the   n last. The equation      (1.)       may             be  depressed,          therefore,                               to
one   of n dimensions, which
      s-i _ _ _ _ _a* +                                                              tf-3
                                                       x*-*             («
                                                                                 2)

whose roots are
           ....COS 2^n2»--7, COS 2= «4*+--i,
                                                                               nw

                                                                  COS 2n
                 +;

                       1
                                                  ;

                                            1'
                                                                      2

                                                                           +

                                                                                                              1
320                         THIRD REPORT 1833.

ITt- cos     2 it  I=·=  x  =  cos  a,  and.  cos  2p.2nm+--* 1r  =  t     =  cos m a,

          2n n +                                                     8 ar

then these roots are reducible to the form

                             a-, 8 #, 82 ar, . . . 8n"1 x,
or,

              cos a, cos wj a, cos m2 a, . . . cos >»"_I a :

and if we suppose m to be a primitive root to the modulus

2n + 1, then all the roots

          cos a, cos m a, cos mi a, . . . cos m"_1 a

will be different from each other, and cos m" a = cos a ; con
sequently it will follow, since the roots of the equation (2.) are
of the form

                             x, 6 x, 0s x, . . . 0"-1 x,

where 9" x = x, they will admit, in conformity with the preceding
theorems, of algebraical expression.
Abel has given the general form of the expression for these
roots, which in this case are all real ; and their determination
will involve the division of a circle into 2 n equal parts, the
division of an assigned or assignable arc into 2 n equal parts,
and the extraction of the square root of 2 n + 1 ; a conclusion
Ifto which Gauss had also arrived, though he has not given the

steps of the process which he followed for obtaining it*. we
suppose 2 n = 2", we shall get the case of regular polygons of
2"+1 + 1 sides, which admit of indefinite inscription in circles
by purely geometrical means. It will follow from the same re
sult that the inscription of a heptagon will depend upon that
of a hexagon,  the trisection of a given                                   extraction
of the square  root of 7.                          angle,  and       the

   Poinsotf has given a very remarkable extension to the theory
of the solution of the binomial equation x" -- 1 = 0, by showing
that its imaginary roots may be considered in a certain sense
as the analytical representation of the whole numbers which
satisfy the congruence or equation

                    x" -1 = M(p),

whose    modulus     (a prime   number)       is p : thus, the imaginary
cube               1, or the   imaginary      roots of x3 -- 1 ss 0, are
       roots of

       2,                   g , and the whole numbers 4 and 2,

          t· Disquititiones Arithm.Hie.ee, p. 651.
              Journal de I'Ecole Polytechnique, cahier 18.
       REPORT ON CERTAIN BRANCHES OF ANALYSIS.      321

which satisfy the congruence

             -.t3 1 = M x 7, ·
--++"*"'whose modulus is 7, are expressed by --
iand -- 1 4--- 7 -- </
                     S I --7 , which arise from adding 7 to the

parts without and beneath the radical sign.
   The principle of this transition from the root of the equation

to that of the congruence is sufficiently simple. We consider
the roots of x" -- 1 = 0 as resulting from the expression for
those of the congruence xn -- 1 = M (p), when M = 0 ; and
we thus are enabled to infer, in as much as M (p), its multiples

and powers, are involved in those formulae, whether without

or beneath the radicals, and disappear, therefore, when M = 0,

that some such multiples, to be determined by trial, or other

wise, are to be added when M (p) is restored, or when 1 is
replaced by 1 + M (p). When the congruence admits of in
tegral values of x, which are less than p, then they can be found

by trial : when no such integral values exist, then, amongst the
irrational values which thus arise, those values will present them
selves which will satisfy the congruence algebraically, though
they can only be ascertained by a tentative process.

   The equation of Fermat,

                     x?-1 -- 1 = M (p),

where p is a prime number, will be satisfied by all the natural

numbers 1, 2, 3, . . as far as (p -- 1) : and it follows, therefore,
that all the rational roots of the equation

                   l"-laM(/))
-will be common to the equation
                          x'-1 1 = M (p),

the number of them being equal to (d), the greatest common
Ifdivisor of « and of p -- 1.  d be 1, then all the roots except
If1 are irrational.  we suppose the equation to be

                     a* -- 1 =M(p),

then all the roots will be equal to each other and to 1. It is
unnecessary, however, to enter upon the further examination
of such cases, which are developed with great care and sin
gular ingenuity in the memoir referred to.
These views of Poinsot are chiefly interesting and valuable as
connecting the theory of indeterminate with that of ordinary
                               y
1833.
322 TIIIKD REPORT 1833.

equations. It has, in fact, been too much the custom of analysts
to consider the theory of numbers as altogether separated from
that of ordinary algebra. The methods employed have generally-
been confined to the specific problem under consideration, and
have been altogether incapable of application when the known
quantities employed were expressed by general symbols and not
by specific numbers. It is to this cause that we may chiefly attri
bute the want of continuity in the methods of investigation
which have been pursued, and the great confusion which has
been occasioned by the multiplication of insulated facts and
propositions which were not referable to, nor deducible from,
any general and comprehensive theory.
Libri, in his Teoria dei Numeri, and in his M6moires de
Math&natique et de Physique, has not merely extended the
views of Poinsot, but has endeavoured to comprehend all those
conditions in the theory of numbers, by means of algebraical or
transcendental equations, which were previously understood
merely, and not symbolically expressed. He has shown that
problems which have been usually considered as indeter
minate are really more than determinate, and he has thus been
enabled to explain many anomalies which had formerly embar
rassed analysts, by showing the necessary existence of an equa
tion of condition,  which must                                      order that the
                    to be solved                  be satisfied, in
problem required                                 may be possible.     By the aid of
such principles the solutions of indeterminate equations, at
least within finite limits, may be found directly, and without
theAngerceeastsitmy uoltfitruedseortoinf gnetwo
                                                 merely tentative  processes.   result
                                                 and interesting   conclusions
from such views of the theory of numbers ; but the limits and
object of this Report will not allow me to discuss them in de
tail, or to point out their connexion with the general theory of
equations, and with the properties of circular and other func
tions. The reader, however, will find, in the second of the
memoirs of Libri above referred to, a general sketch of the
nature and consequences of these researches, which is unfor
tunately, however, too rapid and too imperfectly developed to

put him in full and satisfactory possession of all the bases of
othfisOnnummoteshrteiciamSl oplouerqttiuoaannttiootnhfseNourfyom.rmereidcaltheEqsuuabtjieocnts.o--f aThtreulyrecsloaslusticioanl
work by Lagrange, in which this problem, one of the most im
portant in algebra, is not only completely solved, but the imper
fections of all the methods which had been proposed for this
purpose by other authors are pointed out with that singular
distinctness and elegance which always distinguish his revievrs
REPORT ON CERTAIN BRANCHES OF ANALYSIS.  323

 of the progress and existing state of the different branches of
the mathematical sciences. In the following report we shall
commence by a general account of the state in which the pro
blem was left by him, and of the practical difficulties which
attend the use of his methods, and we shall then proceed to
notice the important labours of Fourier and other authors, with
a view to bring its solution within the reach of arithmetical
processes which are at once general and easy of application.

   The resolution of numerical equations involves two principal
objects of research : the first of them concerns the separation
of the roots into real and imaginary, positive and negative, and
the determination of the limits between which the real roots
are severally placed ; the second regards the actual numerical
approximation to their values, when their limits and nature have
been previously ascertained. Many different methods have been
proposed for both these objects, which differ greatly from each
other, both in their theoretical perfection and in their practical
applicability. We shall begin with a notice of the first class of me

Ifthods, which have been proposed for the separation of the roots.

       the coefficients of an equation be whole numbers or rational
fractions, their real roots will be either whole numbers or ra
tional fractions, or otherwise irrational quantities, which will be
generally conjugate* to each other and which will generally pre
sent themselves, therefore, in pairs. The method of divisors
which Newton proposed, and which Maclaurin perfected, will
enable us to determine roots of the first class, and they are also
determined immediately and completely by nearly all methods
of approximation. It will be to roots of the second class, there
fore, that our methods of approximation will require to be ap
plied, though such methods will never enable us to assign them
under their finite irrational form, nor would our knowledge of
their existence under such a form in any way aid us, unless in a
very small number of cases, in the determination of their ap
proximate numerical values.

  The equal roots of equations, if any exist, may be detected

by general methods ; and the factors corresponding to them

may be completely determined, and the dimensions of the equa-

   * An irrational real root may be conjugate to the modulus of a pair of im
possible roots ; and there may exist, therefore, as many irrational real roots
which have no corresponding conjugate real roots as there are pairs of im
possible roots in the equation. It is not true, therefore, generally, as is some
times asserted, that such irrational roots enter equations by pairs. It would
not be very difficult to investigate the different circumstances under which
roots present themselves, and the different conditions under which they can
be conjugate to each other ; but the inquiry is not very important, in as much
as the knowledge of their form would not materially influence the application

y2of methods for approximating to their values.
324 THIRD REPORT 1833.

tion depressed by a number of units equal to the number of
such factors. We might suppose, therefore, in all cases, that
the roots of the equation to be solved were unequal to each

other ; but if it should not be considered necessary to perform
the previous operations which are required for the detection
and separation of the equal roots, the failure of the methods of
approximation or other peculiar circumstances connected with
the determination of the limits of the roots, would indicate their

existence, and at once direct us to the specific operations upon
Ifwhich their determination depends.
        we suppose, therefore,      the equal roots to      be thus  separated
from the equation to be                                     assume   a quantity
                                  solved, and if we
A which is less than the least difference of the unequal roots,
J, - - J,then the substitution of the terms of the series
k (i -- 1) A,  2 A, A, 0, A, 2                                       ^ A,

where k A is greater than the greatest root, and -- kxA less than
the least root·, will give a series of results, amongst which the
number of changes of sign from + to -- and from -- to + will
be as many as the number of real roots, and no more ; and where

the pairs of consecutive terms of the series of multiples of A
which correspond to each change of sign are limits to the seve
ral real roots of the equation. This is the principle of the me
thod of determining the limits of the real roots which was first
proposed by Waring, and which has been brought into practical
operation by Lagrange and Cauchy. It remains to explain the
different methods which have been proposed for the purpose of
determining the value of A.
Waring first, and subsequently Lagrange, proposed for this
          the formation of the
purpose  of the differences of the  equation          whose roots are     the
squares                                              the given equation.
                                    roots of                               If

we subsequently transform this equation into one whose roots

are the reciprocals of its roots, and determine a limit / greater

than the greatest root of this transformed equation f, then ----i

· A negative root is always considered as less than a positive root, unless
the consideration of the signs of affection is expressly excluded.
   t Newton proposed for this                  formation    of the
                                  purpose the  by trial of  such a  equation whose
roots are x -- e, and where e is  determined                        magnitude that
all the coefficients of the equation may become positive. In such a case e is the
limit required. Maclaurin proved that the same property would belong to the
greatest negative coefficient of the equation increased by 1. Cauchy, in his
Court &' Analyse, Note iii., and in his Exercices des Mathematiques, has shown
that if the coefficients of the equation, without reference to their sign, be
Ai As, . . A», and if n be the number of such coefficients which are different
from zero, then that the greatest of the quantities

               «A,, (nA,)\(nAs)*, . . («A.)»
REPORT ON CERTAIN BRANCHES OF ANALYSIS.                                   325

will be less than the least difference of any two of the real roots
of the primitive equation, and will consequently furnish us with
such a value of A as will enable us to assign their limits. The
extreme difficulty, however, of forming the equation of dif
ferences, which becomes nearly impracticable in the case of

equations beyond the fourth degree*, renders it nearly, if not
altogether, useless for the purposes for which this transforma
tion was intended by the illustrious analysts who first proposed
it ; in other words, it is only in a theoretical sense that it can be
said to furnish the solution of the problem of determining the
limits of the real roots of an equation.
Cauchy has succeeded in avoiding the necessity of forming
Jthe equation of the squares of the differences of the roots, by

showing that a value of may be determined from the last term
of this transformed equation, combined with a value of a limit
Ifgreater than the greatest root of the primitive equation.
                                                                          we
suppose H to represent this term, k to be the superior limit
required, and a and b to represent any two roots of the equa
tion, whether real or imaginary, then he has shown that their
difference a -- b, or the modulus of their difference, will be

will be a superior limit to the roots. An inferior limit (without reference to
algebraical sign) may be readily found by the same process by the formation
of the equation whose roots are the reciprocals of the former.
M. Bret, in the sixth volume of Gergonne's Annates des Mathematiques, has
investigated other superior limits of the roots of equations, which admit of
very easy application, and which likewise give results which are generally not
Iftvheeroyreremmo: te"from   the truth. One  of these    limits is  furnished by the following
                         we  add to unity a  series of   fractions  whose numerators are the

successive negative coefficients, taken positively, and whose denominators
are the sums of the positive coefficients, including that of the first term, the
greatest of the resulting values will be a superior limit of the roots of the
equation." Thus, in the equation

2 x7 + 1 1 ** -- 10 j5 -- 26 x* + 31 a3 + 72 x" -- 230 x -- 348 = 0,

the number 4, which is equal to the greatest of the quantities

                                      10  +  26       +  230    +   348
                             1+T3~'1                                116*
                                             73'1        TT6'1

is a superior limit required ; and if we change the signs of the alternate terms,
--we shall have 1 +
                             , or 7, a superior limit of the roots of the resulting

equation : it will           follow, therefore, that  all the  real roots of the first equation
                             between 4 and -- 7-      Other    methods are proposed in the
will be included
same memoir which are not equally new or equally simple with the one just
given, and which I do not think it necessary to notice.
· Waring, as is well known, gave the transformed equation of the 10th de
gree, whose roots were the squares of the differences of the roots of a general
equation of the fifth degree, wanting its second               term : it involves 94 different
combinations of the coefficients of the original               equation, many of them with

large numerical coefficients.
                  THIRD REPORT 1833.

greater than      --H*   :, if » denote the dimensions          of the

                  »(»-d
                 (a*)-5
equation  ;                  as  H  is necessarily,  when the coeffi
             and in as much

cients are whole numbers, either equal to or greater than 1, it

will follow that     1

                  B(»-d , will furnish a proper value of A,
                 (2#)^-1
where                            by the methods described above,
       k has been determined
or in any other manner. The chief objection to the use of a
value of A thus determined arises from its being generally much
too small, and from the consequent necessity of making a much
greater number of trials for the discovery of the limits of the
roots than would otherwise be necessary.
Lagrange has proposed different methods of determining the
value of A, which, though much less laborious, at least for
equations of high orders, than the equation of the squares of
the differences, are still liable to great objections, in conse
quence of their being indirect, difficult of application, and likely
to give values of A so small and so uncertain as greatly to mul
tiply the number of trials which are necessary to be made *. It
is for this and other reasons that such methods have never been

reduced to such a form as to be competent to furnish the re
quired limits by means of processes which are expressible in
the form of arithmetical rules, like those which are given for the
extraction of the square and cube root in numbers. In this re
spect, therefore, they have failed altogether in satisfying the
great object proposed to be attained by their author, who con
sidered the resolution of numerical equations as properly consti
tuting a department of common arithmetic, the demonstration
of whose rules of operation must be subsequently sought for in

fthe general theory of algebraical equations .

   The basis of all methods of solution of numerical equations
must be found in the previous separation of the roots ; and the
efforts of algebraists for the last two centuries and a half have
been directed to the discovery of rules for this purpose. The
methods, however, which have been proposed have been chiefly
directed to the separation of the roots into classes, as positive
and negative, real and imaginary, and not to the determination
of the successive limits between which they are severally placed.
The celebrated theorem       of Des Cartes %     gave a limit
number of positive and       negative roots,     but failed in  to the

                                                                deter

· Resolution des Equations Numeriques, Note iv.
t Ibid., Introduction.
t The proper enunciation of this theorem  is the following : " Every equa
tion has at least as many changes of sign from + to -- and from -- to +
as it has real and positive roots, and at least as many continuations of sign
              REPORT ON CERTAIN BRANCHES OF ANALYSIS.                                                327

mining the absolute number either of one class or of the other,

Ifin the absence of any means of ascertaining the number of ima

ginary roots. the roots of the equation were all of them real,
and could be shown to be so by any independent test, it would
be easy to determine the limits between which the roots were
severally placed ; for the number of changes of sign which are                          if,
lost upon the substitution of x + e for x would show the number
of roots which are included between 0 and e ; and therefore,
we should assume a succession of values of e, whether positive
or negative, such as to destroy one change of signs and no more,
upon the substitution of any two of these successive values, we
should be enabled to obtain the limits of every root of the

equation.
was chiefly with view to this consequence of Des Cartes's
X                   0, 0
  It                       a

        0
dothefen=toohrteeemrtteohtahelbaitetsyuDtcohcefeesaGseluilqvauetahitendiovinferf,osetoritgeasanntdteoiadfXl ac'an,oneXedfqf"iuc,aiasetsXniiotgmsnn.,eodXfiyItXfh,,ewXtcehToe,snnu&,dpictpi,oosnateosll
the roots of X = be real, the roots of the several derivative                                if
equations Xs = X" = X1" = &c, must be real like
                                     0,               it                                          0
                                                        0,
wise and the roots of any one of these equations Xw =
yIfbe substituted in X(r-I) and X(r+1), will give results affectedy if
           ;with different signs.    we form, therefore,                             a  succession of

        yyXMequations in by eliminating successively x from the equations
= XM .              and X<-« =                    0,

              = X<-« . X<" and X<- =3>                >     0,

              = X1 Xin and X" =          0,           = X X" and X' =                        It 0,

                                            y                                                    is

the coefficients of all these equations must be positive, forming

>t-*>-- ·
»iW. -·-·.
from + to + and from -- to -- as                  has real and negative roots."                      very
is

      V

                                              it
doubtful, notwithstanding the assertions of some authors, whether Des Cartes
himself was aware of the necessary limitation of the application of this theorem,
which required by the possible or ascertained existence of imaginary roots.
  The demonstration which was given by De Gua of this theorem in the Me'-
moires de Academic des Sciences for 1741, founded upon the properties of the
limiting equation or equations, has been completed by Lagrange with his
usual fullness and elegance, in Note viii. to his Resolution des Equations Nu-
uiriques. The most simple and elementary, however, of all the demonstra
tions which have been given of it, and the one, likewise, which arises most
naturally and immediately from the theory of the composition of equations,
                                                                                                     is

                                     in the Berlin Memoirs for 1756. The few im
                                     demonstration, as far as the classification of
that which    iswas given   Segner
perfections            a bywhich attachto this                                       concerned, have been
                                                                                 is
the forms which algebraical products may assume
completely removed in demonstration which Gauss has published in the
third volume of Crelle's Journal.
This theorem included as a corollary to Fourier's more general theorem
for the separation of the roots, as we shall have occasion to notice hereafter.
328 THIRD REPORT -- 1883.

a collection of conditions of the reality of the roots of an equa

tion of » dimensions which are                               g -in number*.

   These speculations of De Gua were well calculated to show
the importance of examining the succession of signs of these
derivative equations, with a view to the discovery of their con
nexion with the nature of the roots of the primitive equation.
The changes in the succession of signs of the coefficients of the
equations which resulted from the substitution of x + a and
x + b, gave no certain indications of the nature and number of
the roots included between a and b, unless it could be shown
that all the roots of the primitive equation were real, a case of
comparatively rare occurrence, and which left the general pro
blem of the separation of the roots, as preparatory to their
actual calculation, nearly untouched. It was the conviction that
all attempts to effect the solution of this problem by the aid of
Des Cartes's theorem would necessarily fail, which led Fourier,
one of the most profound and philosophical writers on analysis
and physical science in modern times, to the examination of the

   · Resolution des Equations Numeriques, Note viii. The equation of the
squares of the differences of the roots of an equation will indicate the reality

of all the roots, if its coefficients have                   changes of sign, or be alter

nately positive and negative. The succession of signs of the coefficients very
readily furnishes the indications of the number of impossible roots in all equa
tions as far as five dimensions, as has been shown by Waring and Lagrange.
The number of conditions of the reality of the roots of an equation of five
dimensions would appear from the formula in the text to be 10 ; but some of
these conditions, as Lagrange has intimated, may, and indeed are, included
in the system of the others, so as to reduce them to a smaller number. La
grange has assigned two conditions (not three) of the reality of the roots of
a cubic equation ; but the first of these is necessarily included in that of the
second, so as to reduce the essential conditions to one. Similar consequences
are found to present themselves in the examination of these conditions for
an equation of the fourth degree, which are three in number, and not six, as
the formula would appear to indicate.
Cauchy, in the 17th cahier of the Journal de I'Ecole Polytechnique, has suc
ceeded,  ebqyuaaticoonmibsineyd=eXxam(winhaetrioenXofisthea                          of
whose                                                        geometrical properties  of  the curve
                                                                                         the form
                                                             rational function of x
** + Pi *"-1 + . . . . pn), and of their corresponding analytical charac
ters, in the discovery of general methods, not merely for the determination of
the number of real roots, but likewise of the number of positive and negative
roots, as distinguished from each other. These methods are equally appli
cable to literal and numerical equations. He has applied his method to ge
neral equations of the first five degrees, and the results are in every respect,
as far at least as they have been examined in common, equivalent to those
which are derived from the equation of the squares of the differences.                   It is
impossible, however, in the space which is allowed to me in this Report, to
give any intelligible account of this most elaborate and able memoir, and I
must content myself, therefore, with this general reference to it.
                REPORT ON CERTAIN BRANCHES OF ANALYSIS.                                                  329

succession of signs of the function X and its derivatives, upon
the substitution of different values of x. The conclusions

which have resulted from this examination, which we shall now
proceed to state, have completely succeeded in effecting the
practical solution of this most difficult and important problem,

Ifas far, at least, as real roots are concerned.
        we suppose
          X = xm + ff, x"-1 + a2 a'""2 + . . . am = 0,

and if we write X and its derivatives in the following order,

                 XW, XC-1;, X""-2', . . . X", X1, X,

--then
the             substitution          of and             will give two series of re
                                             -^r-

sults, the terms of the first series being all of them positive,
and those of the second being alternately positive and negative.

                                                    in the place of -^, we put any
if

    (
                /3)

                                              if,
                                                                                                     0,
The same will be the case

limit (a) greater than the greatest root of the equation X = and
--in the place of
                                      n- we substitute any negative value of

x--   the       (tfoirsbt etedrmetseromfinXe,d      by trial or    otherwise)   which will
make                                                             considered    with regard
                                                 X1, X", &c,

to numerical value only, severally greater than the sum of all
those which follow them. In the course of the substitution of
values of x intermediate to those extreme values -- and a, all

the m changes of sign of X and its derivatives, from + to --
and from -- to + will disappear, in conformity with the fol                            /3
1
                                   ,                                                       2
lowing theorems, which are capable of strict demonstration.                                   p1 b
st. If, upon the substitution of any value of x, one or more
changes of signs disappear, those changes are not recoverable
Ifby the substitution of any greater value of x.

   2nd. upon the substitution of two values a and of x,
one change of signs disappears,                          thIefreundeornethreeaslarmoeot
more included between a and                                    b. p' is                            and no
                                      2                                                           circum
                                                                   0 is
                                        p

                                                   1 b.
stances an odd number                            + of changes of sign have disap

peared, there must be at least one, and there may be                                                     +  1

                     not greater      than p) real roots between
                even number             of signs have disappeared
f(bwuhteirfe an                                                                        a          and    b
                                                                                       in         the in
    is                                                                                                      ;
             pf
                   is                 2p

                                 b,                it,
terval, there may be 2p -- 2p1 real roots, and pairs of ima-
                                                                         //
                                                                           not greater than p.
finanory   roots corresponding to                       where
          change of sign disappears,                       upon        the successive substi
tution of a and then no root whatever
                                                                       of the equation X =                  0

can be    fIofutnhde               between the   limits a and  of x    makes   X       =          0, 0,  then
   3rd.                            substitution
                                                 of value a
                                                 a
a a root of the equation. If the substitution of the same
value of x makes at the same time X = and X1 =s
                                                                                                         then
330                     THIRD RliFORT 1833.

there are two real roots equal to a ; and generally, as many of

the final functions X, X1, X", &c, will disappear, under the same
Ifcircumstances, as there are roots equal to a.

   4th. the substitution of a value of a makes one intermediate

function X(r) equal to 0, and one only, and if the result 0 be placed

between two signs of the same kind, whether 4- and + or -- and
-- , then there will be one pair of imaginary roots corresponding to
this occurrence ; but if 0 be placed between two unlike signs, +
Ifand --

unless
             -- and +, then there       will be      no root corresponding to
                                             the     substitution of a makes any
       or    Xthe same time = 0.                                                             0,
       at
                                                                                                       if it,
number of consecutive derivative functions equal to then,
there be an even number 2p of consecutive zeros, there will bep
or -- pairs of imaginary roots corresponding, according as
       (p

          +

                  1
                    1)

                 p
they are placed between the same or different signs; and there                                   if

be an odd number 2p + of consecutive zeros, then there will1

hep          or pairs of imaginary roots corresponding, according
as they are placed between the same or different signs *.
     The preceding propositions may be easily shown to include
the theorem of Des Cartes for                 obvious that the substitution
                        ;

                          it by ;
                                     it
                                          is
of for a: in X and its derivatives will give succession of signs
0                                                         a

                                                                                                             j3
Ifidentical with those of the successive coefficients of X, deficient
terms being replaced 0.                      the extreme values * and --

be substituted, there will be m permanences in one case and m
                                     will follow therefore that the number
changes in the second
of real and therefore positive roots between a and cannot ex
ceed the number of changes of sign corresponding to x = or                               ;
                                                                                                 /3
                                                                                          0
                                                                                                     0,
                                                                                                          0
amongst the successive coefficients of the equation and that the
number of real and therefore negative roots between -- and
cannot exceed the number of permanences corresponding to
x = or of changes between and -- which also identical/3,
     I                                  0                                                is

with the number of successive permanences of sign amongst the0,
coefficients of the equation.

    ·     have stated this rule differently  from Fourier, whose rule                        of   the double
sign   appears to me to be superfluous.                                                          possessing
                                             If we consider the zeros                        as
arbitrary signs, the nature and extent of the ambiguity which they produce
will always be determined by the circumstances of their position with respect
to the preceding and succeeding sign.
   The rule of                    when       of the  derivative functions X1, Xu, X,H,
                the double sign,  made  one  of in    memoir by Mr. W. G. Horner,
&c, becomes     equal to zero,          use
                it
                                      is
                                                                     a

                                                                            a

                                                                 It

                                                                                     is
in the Philosophical Transactions for 1819, upon new method of solving nu
merical equations. This memoir, though very imperfectly developed, and in
many parts of very awkwardly and obscurely expressed, contains many
original views, and also a very valuable arithmetical method of extracting the
roots of affected equations. It makes also a very near approach to Fourier's
method of separating the roots of equations.                                             proper to state that
Fourier's proposition was known to him as early as 1796 or 1797, as very

clearly appears from M. Navier's Preface to his Analyse des Equations Diter-
minies, a posthumous work, which appeared in 1831 .
                 REPORT ON CERTAIN BRANCHES OF ANALYSI3.     331

-In order to render the preceding propositions more easily in
telLligeitbleX,  we will apply them to two examples.         X",
                 = x* -- 4 a? 3 x + 2 3 = 0, and underneath
X1", X", X', X, let us write down the signs of the results of the
substitution of 0, 1, 2, 3, 10, in the place of x, in conformity
with the following scheme :

                 V" "VI" V'l Y1 V

(0)              +--           0 --+

(1)              +0            -- --+

+(2) +                         0 --+

(3)              ++            + ----

(10)             ++            + ++

   For x = 0, there is a result 0 placed between two similar
signs ; there is therefore a pair of imaginary roots correspond
ing to it. Every value of x less than 0 will give results alter
nately + and -- , and there is therefore no real negative root.

   For x -- 1, there is a result 0 placed between two dissimilar
signs : there is therefore no pair of imaginary roots corre
sponding ; and since there is no loss of changes of sign in pass
ing from 0 to 1 , there is no real root between those values.

  For x = 2, there is a result 0 placed between two dissimilar
signs ; there is therefore no pair of imaginary roots correspond
ing, and there is no root between 1 and 2.

   For x = 3, there is a loss of one change of sign, and there is
therefore one real root between 2 and 3.
For x = 10, there is a loss of one change of signs and all the
resulting signs are positive ; there is therefore one real root
between 3 and 10.

   The limits of the real roots are thus completely determined,
and the substitution of the successive whole numbers, from 3
upwards, will show the nearest whole numbers 3 and 4, between
- -which the greatest root is situated.
 Let X = x6 12 x» + 60 x4 + 1 23 x* + 4567 *  89012 = 0

                 X", X', X", X"1, X", X1, X,

(-10)            +--    +      --  + --+
                 +. --  +      --  +. -- --
(-1)             +--    +      0
                 +--    +      +   -+ +
   (0)
                                   -+ +
   (1)

(10)             + ++ +            + ++

All the real roots of the equation are i included between the
extreme v alucs -- 10 and 10.
332                               THIRD REPORT 1833.

   One change of sign is lost in the transition from -- 10 to -- 1,
and there is therefore one real root between them ; the sign of
the last term is therefore necessarily changed from + to -- .
   For x = 0, there is a result 0 between two similar signs ;
there is therefore a pair of imaginary roots corresponding, and
consequently a loss of two changes of sign.
    There is no root of the equation between 0 and 1 .
    There is a loss of three changes of sign in the transition from

1 to 10, and therefore there are three roots corresponding, one
or all of which may be real : the application of a subsequent
rule will show that two of them are imaginary.
...It is obvious, in a series of derivatives, X1'"', X'""-1', . . . X;r)

     X, that X(m), X(m-1) may be considered as the derivatives
of  the        --r   --(;»l)0--1  and    (m -- r --   2)tfbromordXe,r  from X(r>, as well
    the  (m                        l)th                                and that the same
as       /«,h   and                      derivatives

rules may be applied to the separation of the roots of these de
rivatives when they become equations, whether they be consi
dered as belonging to the inferior or to the superior order. The
substitution, therefore, of a and b successively for x, will show
the number of roots of the successive derivative equations which
are found in this interval, which will be equal successively to
the number of        changes of sign which have                           in the
transition from      one value of x to the other.     disIafppweearendow   place
under the several results of the substitution of a and b, a series
of zeros or numbers as indices to signify that no change, or an
indicated number of changes of signs, have disappeared, then in
passing from the left to the right, we shall find first zero, and sub
sequently, whether immediately or not, the numbers, 1, 2, &c,
which will indicate the number of roots which must be sought
for, in that interval, in the derivative or other functions, consider

ed as   equations,   which are severally placed       above them. Thus,
       = x4 -- x3    + 4 x* + x -- 4 = 0, then        from the scheme
if X

     (-10)           - -Xlv \'ii! Vii \-| Y
     (-1)
                     + ++
                     0 0 0 01
                     + -- + ----

                           0 0 0 10
         (0) + -- + +

                          0 1 2 23

         (1) + + + + +

we infer that there is one root of X = 0, and no root of any of

the several derivative equations situated between -- 10 and -- 1 ;
              REPORT ON CERTAIN BRANCHES OF ANALYSIS.                                                      333

that there is one root of X1 = 0, and no root of X = 0, between
--                              is one root of X"1                                             = 0,        roots of
    1 and 0 ;    that   there  = 0, and three roots                                                  two
X"  = 0, two     roots                                                                         of X        situated
                        of X1                                                                        = 0,
between 0 and 1 . It remains to determine whether these three
roots are all of them real, or two of them imaginary, and also
to assign the limits, in the first case*, between which they are

placed.          first place,  if imaginary     roots exist in the derived,

   In the
they will exist also in the primitive equation. The converse of
Ifthis proposition is not necessarily true.

      the succession of indices be 0, 1, 2, then the succession of

signs corresponding to

will be          X", X«, X, or X<r + 1\ X«, Xe-'>,
            (a)
                   - 1212+ + or -- +
            (4)
                       00

                   - - -+ + +

There will be one real root between a and b in the equation
X' = 0 or X(r) = 0, and two roots,              whether real or imaginary,
                               interval,  in X   = 0 or X'r_1) = 0.
corresponding     to this      there be         real roots between a and b,
                                          two
   In the first  case, if

tisheyn=thXe  curve whose equation

              =y [x), where oa=a,
fo b = b, a n =zf (a), b m =
    (b), will cut the axis at the
points a. and (3 between a and b.

The curve will have no point
of inflection between a and b,
since X" preserves the same sign, whether + or -- ; and there
will be a point t, where the tangent is parallel to the axis,
since X1, in the same interval, changes from + to -- , or con
versely, and therefore becomes equal to zero between those
limits. In this case, the sum of the subtangents (considered
without regard    to algebraical signs) will be necessarily                                                less than
                  interval a b be subdivided sufficiently,                                                  so as to
a b ; and if the                                                                               both of these points
furnish new limits a' and V,                    or                                             points of intersection
will sooner or later be found  then one         the
                               between

a and and therefore /"(«') andy(6') will one or both of them
change their signs. The analytical expression of those geo
metrical conditions, and therefore of the existence of two real
    /3,
                                                                                            ;
roots, will be, that the sum of the subtangents or quotients j-,,{

   * We seek for the limits of the real roots only                                             we have no concern with
those of the imaginary roots or of their moduli.
334 THIRD REPORT -- 1833.
J f+ i ! Z.h -- a, when no regard is paid to the sign of (a)
fand (A).

f fintermediate
            In this case new limits must be taken successively,
             to a and b, until («') and (b1) one or both of
them   change their sign.
       the second case,    if  there                     be  two  imaginary  roots cor
   In

responding to the interval

between a and b, then the
curve whose equation is y=X
_though similar in its other ge
ometrical properties   to fig. 1,       '     "                   «' "'                                                                  *
will not cut the axis  between
a and b. In this case the sum of the subtangents a n' and
b ml will either exceed the interval a b, or will ultimately ex
ceed when the interval a                                 sufficiently diminished. The
is                     b                                                                                                                    $g
         it,                         b
                                       is
               it
                   *.                         it
/-gcorresponding analytical character will be that                                                                                    +

either greater than -- a, or that may ultimately be made
to exceed
Thus, in the example referred to above, p. 332, write down
the following scheme
                       :

                       VViv YIH Y»                                V

                       0+
                                     16
                                                   ;> 8
       (0, -- + + --

       (1)             ++                  +                 +2   +
                                                                       3

                           18 14

                                                             1

                                                                    0
                                                                        2,
and place above and below the indices and in the succes
sion of indices        1,2, the values of Xm and X" respectively,
               1,

                  0,
                         \
                              is

                                                  d.
                                                      :

                                         it
without regard to sign, corresponding to x = and x = then
                                                                             1
                                                                               ;

we shall find -rr 7 and, fortiori, therefore -g + j^, also

greater than which the interval between which the roots

required are to be sought for consequently follows that two
of the roots corresponding to this interval are imaginary, and
Ifthere remains, therefore, only one real root between
        we suppose                                                           and
                                                                             0
                                                                                          1.

            X=xs + x4 xi-2xi + 2x-l=:0,+

· The new values       and of nandA mav be made                           r£W and -- -LAr,.
                                                                             (a) (ft)
           0
                n'
                          0 a'

                                             6'
                                                                :
                                                             a

                                                                                                    a

                                     /+
                                                                                                                                   b
which are   and        m' respectively     second trial will generally succeed.
             REPORT ON CERTAIN BRANCHES OF ANALYSIS.                    335

the corresponding scheme will be as follows :

                  X', X", X1", X", X X,

      (-1)                96      42                 +
                 +                +--

                         36

      (-4) + -- + -- +
                 01 2 2 2

         (0) + + + -- +

                         24 6                42

                 00               0          12

                 ++               +       ++

                                          36 10

         (1) + + + + +
      If we take the interval from (-- 1) to 0, we find two roots in-
                                     ^42     6
eluded within it ;       but  since       +  ^g  is  less   than  the interval,

Ifno certain conclusion can be drawn with respect to the nature
of the corresponding roots.               we now consider the interval
    1'from -- -% to 0, which includes the same roots, we shall find
h9t;  +   6  =  "o") a quantity equal     to the     whole  interval, and we
         a7

are consequently authorized in concluding that the correspond
ing roots are imaginary. In a similar manner, we find the in

dication of the existence of two roots between 0 and -^ ; and

in as much   as  2    =    1  --  the  whole     interval, we at once con
                 -x-
                         -^

clude that      the two  roots  in question are      imaginary*.        just
                appears   that  we are enabled,       by the processes
  It thus
    described, to separate all the real roots of an equation and lo

    · When we speak of the existence of imaginary roots between two limits,
we do not mean that such limits comprehend the moduli of these roots, but
merely that the real roots which would be found between those limits, if cer
tain conditions were satisfied, are wanting, and that there are as many ima
ginary roots of the equation which may be said to correspond to them which
are sufficient to complete the required number of changes of sign which are
lost. The theory of Fourier as given in his work, determines nothing con
cerning the values or limits of the moduli, or of the peculiar nature of the
signs of affection, of such imaginary roots.
   ?t36         THIRD REPORT 1833.

   assign their limits, and thus to prepare them for the certain ap
   plication of methods of approximation. They constitute a most
   important element in the theory of numerical equations ; and
   though they do not enable us to assign the limits of the moduli
   of the pairs of impossible roots nor to determine their signs of
   affection, yet they at once indicate both their existence and their
   number, and thus form the proper preparation, at least for the
   application of methods, whether tentative or not, for the deter
   mination of their values.
   Lagrange, in the fifth chapter of his Resolution des Equa
   tions Numeriques, has shown in what manner the equation of
   the squares of the differences may be applied to the deter
   mination of these imaginary roots ; and the methods which

   thence arise are equally complete, in a theoretical sense, with
   those which are made use of, by the aid of the same equation,
   for the determination of the limits of the real roots ; and Le-
   gendre, also, has furnished tentative methods of approximating
   to their values. But all such methods are more or less nearly
   impracticable for equations of high orders ; and the invention
   of a ready and certain method of separating the imaginary
   roots of equations, as the basis of processes for approximating
   to their values, must still be considered as a great desideratum
   in algebra.
   The method of approximating to the roots of numerical equa
   tions, when their limits are assigned, which Lagrange has given,
   by means of continued fractions, is so well known that it is quite
   Ifunnecessary to enter upon a detailed examination of its princi
   ples.  there is only one real root, included between two con
   secutive whole numbers, there will be only one positive root in
   the several transformed equations, which is greater than 1 , and
   methods which are certain and sufficiently rapid may be applied
   to the determination of the several quotients which form the
   converging fractions. If, however, there are two or more roots
   included between two consecutive whole numbers, there will be
   two or more roots of the first transformed equation, and possi
   bly, likewise, of the transformed equations which follow which
   are greater than 1, and which may be placed between two con
   secutive whole numbers. The separation of such roots may be
   effected by the methods of Fourier, which have been explained
   above ; but when we have once arrived at a transformed equa
   tion which has two or more roots greater than 1 , no two of which
   are included between two consecutive whole numbers, then we
   shall find the same number of sets of successive transformed
   equations, which will furnish the several sets of quotients to the
   continued fractions, which represent the roots of the primitive

v
       REPORT ON CERTAIN BRANCHES OF ANALYSIS.                      337

equation, which are included between two limits which are con
secutive whole numbers. The formation, however, of these
transformed equations, and the determination of the next infe
rior integral limit of their roots, even when no further separation
of the roots is required, is excessively laborious, and Lagrange
has pointed out methods by which the operations required for

both these objects may be greatly simplified. Legendre also,
in the 14th section of the first part of his Theory of Numbers,
Ifhas given a considerable practical extension to these methods
of Lagrange.          we combine their    processes for  foinfdBinugdanthe*
nearest inferior  limit of the root with  the theorems
for the formation of the transformed equations, we shall proba
bly have arrived at the greatest simplification which the practi
cal solution of numerical equations, by means of continued frac
tions, is capable of receiving.
Lagrange has pointed out the principal defects of the me
thod of approximation to           roots of numerical equations which
                              the  is only under particular conditions
was given by Newton f.
                              It
that it is competent to attain the object proposed, and in no
case does it immediately furnish a measure of the accuracy of
the approximation. But notwithstanding these objections to
this method, in the form under which it has been commonly
applied, it is unquestionably that which most naturally arises

out of the analytical conditions of the problem, and which is also
capable of the most immediate and most simple application in
almost every department of analysis. Lagrange had demon
strated that this method could only be applied with safety to
find the greatest and    least roots of  iamnaegqinuaartiyonro, otas,ndifinantyhoesxe
cases only in which the  moduli of the
isted, were included in value between such roots. But Fourier
has shown, by considering the superior and inferior limits of
every real root, and by a proper examination of certain condi
tions which those limits may be made to satisfy, and by insti
tuting the approximation simultaneously with respect to both
those limits, that all sources of ambiguity may be removed and

the accuracy of the approximation determined J. We shall now
proceed to give a short notice of these researches.

· Nouvelle Mflhode pour la Resolution des Equations NumSriques. It con
tains the exposition of exceedingly simple and rapid rales for the formation
of the transformed equation whose unknown quantity is x -- e, where e is
any integral or decimal number. In other respects, however, this publication,
though announced with great pomp and circumstance, is a very superficial
production, and is only remarkable for having received the charitable notice
and approbation of Lagrange.
t Resolution des Equations NumMques, Note v.
X Analyse des Equations determines, livr. ii., Calcul des Racines.

1833.                              z
338 THIRD REPORT 1833.

 /' f"1.  If
         X"
X',
              fit(sxf)irs=t  0, or X = 0 be the equation,                the  (x),     (x), or
                                                                              limits
                             and second derivatives, then                             a and b
of one of the roots will be sufficiently near for the application of

Ifthis method of approximation, if the three last indices (p. 332)

be 0, 0, 1. this be not the case, the interval between a and^A
must be further subdivided until this last condition is satisfied.
   Under such circumstances there will be no root of the equa

f =f =fitCfioAwnseBs,uwp(xph)oes=ree 0yOaan=d/a(x"),(Oxto)bb=e=0t,hbei,ncaelmquudae=tdio/n(baeot)w,feaebnpnaaraabnodl(ibcb),:cutharevnend

there will be no point of inflection between a and b, and no tan
gent parallel to the axis. The analytical conditions above men

tioned would show that f(a) and f(b) must necessarily have
dif2fe. reIfntwseigsnusp.pose b to represent the superior limit of the root
(a), then the Newtonian approximation gives us the new su

perior limit b' = b -- f,            '-                   a new inferior limit will be found

                                               ,,{

                                                       ;
to be a = a tt/JK these limits are still superior and inferior

limits of the root <x, and are both of them nearer to than the
Ifprimitive limits and a.                                                     b it

       the same operation be repeated by replacing and a in
                             b
                                 b'
f(b) andy- (a) by and a', nearer limits will be obtained, and

        obvious that the same process may be repeated as often as
it

     is

may be thought necessary. And in as much as we obtain both
the inferior and superior limits corresponding to each operation,
the difference between them will                                         greater than   the
                                                          always    be   above figure,  and
error of each approximation. If we                        refer to  the

suppose n to be tangent to the curve at n, and a m to be
              b'
                             a                            = fAA, and a = ir/iy
                                 b

                                           ',

                                                   b

                                     a b'

                                                 It
drawn parallel to n then                                                      a''

since/' (b) = tan nb' b-- tan m a. follows, therefore, that
         REPORT ON CERTAIN BRANCHES OF ANALYSIS.                     339

0 V and O a' are the new limits b' and a : and if ordinates V «'
and a' m be drawn to the curve, and ri b" be drawn a tangent,
and m' a" parallel to «' b", then O b" and O a" will be the new
values b" and a" of b' and a'. The progress of the approxima
tion, upon the continued repetition of this process, will now be
Ifysufficiently manifest.
     3.  w(ex)c, ofn(sxi)d,erinthethediftfrearnesnittioanrrafrnogmemtehnetsinfoefriothr elimsigitnsa  of

f"(x),                                                                                                to

the superior limit b, they will be found to be the following, it
being kept in mind that            sign of f{x) alone changes
+ to -- , or conversely.     the                                from

             <«{;                  ++
                                   +++

             <»<c                  --- -- +

                                   + ~-- +
                                   +

                                               +
                                   --+ +

In the first two cases, the formulae of approximation are

b -- ,, , and a -- -L ;,{, and commence therefore with the su-

perior limit. In the last two cases, the formulae of approxima

tion are a -- ^Jr^ and b -- ~. ; /, and commence therefore with

/"the inferior limit. In other words, that limit must in all cases
be selected  which gives the same   sign to  port(ixo)nsanodf /Xth-er),cowrhree
ther + or    -- . The construction
                                    of the
sponding parabolic curves included between a and b in these
several cases, will at once make manifest the reason of the selec
tion of the superior or inferior limit and likewise the progress
of the approximation itself*.

· If, in the figure p. 338, we join the extremities m and n of the ordinates a m
and b n by the chord m N n, which cuts the axis of x in the point N, we shall
Jn,, "-^t;i/(.j -/(i) -/(,,)' ...feind O N=
             f(a)(b -- a)    =  ,  f(b)(b--a)  whlch    .    a  new  aP-
                                *                     K,ves

proximate inferior limit in the first two cases considered in the text, and a new
superior limit in the last two. Other constructions are noticed by Fourier,
which give similar results.
In the Mimoires de VAcadhnie Royale de Bruxelles for 1826, there is a
memoir on the resolution of numerical equations by Dandelin, in which the
analytical conditions which must be satisfied by the limit, towards which the

                                      Z2
340 THIRD REPORT-- 1833.

4. In the application of these rules some precautions are oc
if/"casionally

measure
a and b,
             <pn(xe)c,esasnadryi.f a  Thus,         (x) and/ (a;) have a common
                                      root (a)  of  <p(x) = 0             be  included between
             then there is            a point   of  inflection                the parabolic arc
                                                                          of
between a and b at the point of its intersection with the axis.
Under such circumstances, the method of approximation must
                                equation f (x)      = 0, and not to the primitive
be applied to the                                   of determining the value of a.
equation/(x) = 0,               for the purpose
Again, if there exists a common measure of/' (x) and/ (x), which
becomes equal to zero, for a value of x between a and b, then
there are two or more equal roots of f(x) -- 0 in that interval,
and the final succession of indices is no longer 0, 0, 1. Other
precautions connected with the subdivision of the interval b -- a
are sometimes required, which the limits of this Report will not
allow me to notice in detail.
It remains to add a few remarks upon the rapidity of the ap
Ifproximation, and upon the means by which it may be ascer
tained.      we express the primary and secondary intervals
b -- a and b' -- a' by i and
                                *                 may be very easily proved that

                                           . i',>(«'-..A)
                                             it
                                ;._~;%*            2f'(b)            '
                                                                             b

                                                                                   :

                                                                                    if
where/" (a.      ..b)           denotes some    value which/"                 (x) assumes when
                  for                                                              and we form
we substitute                   x a quantity    between a and

2f 2/'atohnfedf"qsuu(aop)tpioeasnnetd(/C")th(web)ho*icrdhbeyratrhoisefetslheeafrsgotrmevaatdleuisevtidoainfrtgicutlhaet(eag) roaernadtseusbtarvtaic(lubu)e,-
             V

                  k

                            a!
approximation in Newton's method must be made, are established by a com
bination of analytical and geometrical considerations, and in which also the
new limits and are respectively found by what he terms the rule of tan
gents in one case, and by the rule of chords in the other. The first the
                                                                                            a/
subtraction of the subtangent          6        jrfjlor from as involved in the or                  It is
                                                                        A,                                  is
                                          V                                   a

                                                                            is/
dinary Newtonian approximation when the proper limit selected. The

second   is  the determination of the value of ON, or                         --     .,,{         ----t~Wt\,  or

                                                                                       (·)

fib)-- f(a\      ky *e method taught at the beginning of this Note.

evident that these conclusions involve all that important in Fourier's re
searches upon this part of the subject.                              is
   This memoir of M. Dandelin, which contains                          a
exposition of the whole theory of the Newtonian                          very full and very clear
                                                                        method of approximation,
/" /"off"preceded by five years
   · Since no root
                                the publication of M.     Fourier's           work.
                                (x) =                     between               and
                                       0        included                  a                       follows that
                                           is                                 (o                     the same
                                                                                      . b,
either/" (a) or  likew(6is)ewtioll /b'e(ath)eagnreda/t'es(tJ).value  of                 6) it
remark applies                                                                                   :
                                                                              ..
REPORT ON CERTAIN BRANCHES OF ANALYSIS.                              341

late number * immediately greater than this quotient, and n the
order of the articulate or subarticulate number which is not less

than the difference of the limits b -- a, then if we divide f(b)
by/' (b), and continue the operation as far as the (2 n + A)"1

decimal, and increase the last digit by 1, the quotient which
arises being subtracted from or added to, b, according &Bf (b)
andy (b) have the same or different signs, will give a result
which will differ from the true value of the root by a quantity

less than ( tt, )          · And if the same operations be repeated,

forming successively new limits by means of the results thus
obtained, we shall obtain a series of limits which are correct as
                                   the (8 n + 7 A)01, &c,
farTahsethepr(o4cens+se3s  i)"1,                           decimal place f.
                                  approximation which
                            of                             have been described

above, as well as those which belong to all other methods, re
quire divisions and other operations with numbers which are
sometimes beyond the reach of logarithmic tables, and which it
is extremely important to abbreviate as much as possible, con
sistently with the determination of the accurate digits of the
results which are required to be found. Such processes were
taught by Oughtred and other algebraists of the seventeenth
century, but both their theory and applications have been
greatly and, perhaps, undeservedly, neglected in later times.
The consideration, however, of such methods has been partially
revived by Fourier and some other writers, the first of whom
has given examples of what he terms ordinate division (division
ordonne'e,) the principle of which is to conduct the division by the
employment of a small number of the first digits of the divisor
only, and to correct the successive remainders, augmented by
the successive digits of the original dividend, in such a manner
as to bring into operation the successive digits of the divisor
when they are required for the determination of the correct
digit of the quotient, and not before. Such processes, however,
are incapable of being briefly described, and we can only refer to
tahmepolersigionfalitswaoprkpl%icfaotriotnh.e developement of the rule and for ex

   * An articulate number is one of the series 1, 10, 200, 7000, &c., where
the first digit is followed by zeros only. A subarticulate number is one of
the series -1, -02, -003, &c., and the number which designates the place of

the first significant digit is supposed to be negative.
+ The course of the approximation, in order to be perfectly regular and rapid,
would require that 2 n + k should be greater than n, or that n should be
greater than -- k, a circumstance     which might occur      if      or n was negative.
In such a case it will be necessary,   or rather expedient,      k    subdivide the in-
                                                                 to
/ \"terval 6 -- a, until the difference of the two limits does not exceed ( --I J ,

where n is equal to, or greater than, 1 -- k.

  J Analyse des Equations determines, livr. ii. p. 188.
342 THIRD REPORT 1833.

   Similar processes, also, have been investigated and applied

with remarkable ingenuity and success by Mr. Holdred *, Mr.
Horner f, and Mr. Nicholson J. The first of these writers, a
mathematician in humble life, who had formed his taste upon
the study of the older algebraical writers of this country, gave
very ingenious rules for finding the roots of numerical equa
tions. The method proposed by Mr. Horner was founded upon
much more profound views of analysis and of the relation which
exists between the processes of algebra and arithmetic, and he
has not only succeeded in making a very near approximation to
the true principles upon which the limits of the roots of numerical
equations are assigned, but by considering the rules for extract
ing the roots of numbers and of affected numerical equations
as founded upon common principles, he has reduced the rules
for these purposes                                                     aopfpvliecraytioranp. idMarn.dNeif
fective, though not   to a form  which                         admits
                      perhaps    of very                        easy,
cholson, by a combination of the methods of Mr. Holdred and
Mr. Horner, has greatly simplified them both, and reduced them
to the form of practical rules, which are not much more compli
cated than those which are commonly given for the extraction
of the cube and higher roots of numbers.
      The Newtonian method of approximation, which we have
hitherto considered, may be termed linear, in as much as the
equations of a straight line combined with the general equation
of the parabolic curve are competent to express all the circum
stances which characterize it. But methods of approximation
of higher orders than the first, involving the second or higher
powers of the unknown quantity to be determined, have likewise
been considered by Fourier and other writers. That of the se
cond order, viewed with reference to the properties of curve
lines, may be said to result from the contact of arcs of a conical
parabola. The superior and inferior limits, thus determined,
converge with great rapidity, the error corresponding to each
operation being the product of a constant factor                                 with the cube
of the preceding error. Such methods, however,
                                                                                 if viewed with
reference to the facility of their practical applications, are incom
parably less useful than those which are founded upon linear
approximations ; but there is much which is instructive in their
theory, and particularly as furnishing the means of determining
immediately the nature of two roots of an equation included in
a given interval, which the application of the methods for the

   *  This method is  pI ahrtaicveulanrelyvernosteiceend  in   Mr. Nicholson's     Essay on  Involu
      and Evolution.                                      the    original tract  published
tion                                                                                         by Mr.

Holdred.

T Philosophical Transactions for 1819.
X Essay on Involution and Evolution. 1820.
                       REPORT ON CERTAIN BRANCHES OF ANALYSIS.                        343

separation of the roots which we have previously described
may have left in the first instance uncertain. We refer to the
end of the second book of Fourier's Analyse des Equations
determines, for a very complete examination of the theory of
such approximations*.

   It has been a question agitated on more than one occasion,

whether the tests of the reality of the roots of equations of finite
dimensions which De Gua established, or rather the principles
of the much more general theorem of Fourier, were applicable
likewise to transcendental equations. In a discussion of the

transcendental equation

_V -- *                i!"                  _          **  ,        S4        «*C"j
                                      > os        eft 3a                  42
                                                              2*    3J

fwhich presents itself in the expression of the law of propagation

of heat in a solid cylinder ot infinite length, Fourier ventured
to apply the principles in question to show that all its roots were
real ; but M. Poisson %                     has   disputed the      propriety    of
application, both in this                   case  and in others                       such an
                                                                    : thus, if  we    suppose

                                      X = if -- be"*,

we shall find

· The rule for the determination of the nature of two roots included in a
given interval, which is given in page 333, is merely the expression of a con
sequence of the application of the method of linear approximation to the di
stinction of those roots ; and whatever difficulties in certain extreme cases
may attend the successful application of that rule, will necessarily present
themselves likewise in the application of the linear approximation under the
same circumstances. This character, however, is not confined to the Newto

nian or linear method of approximation. If the interval of the roots be deter
mined, by     thfeunacptpiolincatXionanodf   Fourier's theorem   of the               of signs of
the original                                its derivatives, so  that no  succession   two roots
                                                                           more than
may be said to exist in that interval, whose nature is unknown, whether real
or imaginary, then the application of the method of continued fractions, as
well as of other equivalent modes of approximation, will be competent to de
termine the values of those roots when real, and their nature, when imaginary.
Such, at least, is the assertion of Fourier, who refers to the third book of his
work on equations for its demonstration. It is unfortunate, however, that
only two books of this work, which is full of such remarkable researches upon
the theory of equations, were fully prepared for publication at the time of his
death. Our knowledge of the contents of the other five books, which were
left unfinished, is derived from an Expose" Synoptique prefixed to those which
are published, and which contains a general review and analysis of their prin
cipal contents. It is to be hoped, however, that the materials which he has
left behind him will be found to be sufficient at least for their partial, if not
for their complete restoration.
t Theorie de la Chaleur, p. 372.
stitXutJ,outorrnna. l    de I' Ecole  Poly technique,  cahier xix.  p. 381;   Me'moires tie I' In-
                       ix. p. 92.
   344 THIRD REPORT -- 1833.

                   -rjf-»--X = e* -- b o" e°*               -

                       -, .^7 = t-*           6a"+1 e°*,

                   - - id--"+--*X = e*        o"+l e",

   Ifwhere n is any whole number, or zero.                 we now suppose

   and eliminate,  by means of this equation, e", we shall  get
                   ---d" --X
                             =  --     b (s1  a)' a" e01,
                   ax"

                   ,,dn+aX          .         v ±,

   and therefore

   a quantity which is negative for every real value of x. The
   conclusion which should be drawn, in conformity with Fourier's
   principles, is, that all the roots of the equation e* -- be"* = 0
   are real, as well as those of its successive derivatives; whilst
   the fact is, that each of those equations has one real root, and
   an infinite number        of imaginary             which are included
   der the formula                            roots,                       un

                       _ log b a" + 2 i is V-^\

                                     I --a

      In reply to this objection, it has been urged by Fourier that
   Poisson has not very accurately stated the terms of the propo
   sition in question as applicable to such a case *, and also that

   faaewhqenhaudinhac/dathWisobnpn,.r(eexigsn)el,Fenocatthtreeftdnuihfnetwtchotesoiaostmsaenukepeepxso(itnuxrset)ceomceatecshnosadindtoseniitrdthiseveoarafdtsitevsiuoreibginvnsatsftiuiatvnubleltcesittto,wihoneengeosrinv,ofeoat/stw(ns"od+rore>tlfihsmuot(ilhsxtteess)

       · This inaccuracy of  statement is rather chargeable upon Fourier himself
   than upon Poisson, who    has certainly failed to notice the necessary limitation
   of this proposition upon
   page 373 of the Thiorie     the occasion which gave rise to its application in
                             do la Chaleur.

\
     REPORT ON CERTAIN BRANCHES OF ANALYSIS.                                 345

also which are included between them, when considered as
equations, will contain the same number of roots, or none, be
tween those limits. This proposition is true, whether the num
ber of derivative functions be finite, as in the case of algebraical
equations, or infinite, as in the case of transcendental equations.
In the first case, however, it admits of absolute application, in
consequence of our arriving at a final derivative, from which
the comparison of the signs of the two series of results com
mences. In the second case we can draw no conclusion, in the
absence of any difference in the signs of the series of results,
in the transition from one derivative function to another, with
frespect to the number of roots of any of those functions which
are  included    between the given     limits:  thus,        \(   (x)    = sin x,
we   shall have                       signs of  sin x              of    its deri
                  the same series of                         and
vatives, however far continued, upon the substitution of the
limits a and a + 2 it, although it is manifest that there are two
real roots of sin x = 0 between those limits. The general pro
position, therefore, will, in such a case, authorize us in con
cluding merely that whatever number of roots the equation
sin x = 0 includes between the limits a and a + 2 ir, will be
possessed likewise by all its derivative equations between the
same limits*.
There is another point of view, likewise, in which the objec
tion advanced by Poisson may be considered as not altogether
applicable to the example which he puts forward. In considering

the roots of the derivative functions , ,, , ..lt . ,.,, he

has not included those of the factor e*, which those functions

                                      1 H ) = 0, it follows that

there are an infinite number of equal  roots (where x                    =   -- oo  )
of e* = 0, which equally reduce three  or any number                     of  conse

cutive derivative functions to zero, and to which, therefore,
the test of De Gua is no longer applicable. It would follow,
therefore,  that the existence of imaginary roots in the equation
            no longer contradictory to Fourier's proposition, even
X = 0 is

· If the transcendental function denoted by f(x) be a determinate function,
it will always  be  possible to assign an interval 3, such that the derivative
function/"
                =
tween and       +
     a                  contains no  root, or determinate     number of roots, be
                                     interval or succession  of intervals can be de
              a (x)      If such an   a
                                              is
                  i. 0
                                                                     it
termined for any one derivative function, such as /(*) (x), will become a
point of departure for the determination of the number and nature of the roots
corresponding to the same interval or intervals for all the other derivative
functions which form the superior or inferior terms of the series. In the case
of algebraical functions, the point of departure that derivative function which
is constant quantity.
a
346 iillRiJ KiyroRT louu.

admitting the correctness of that form of it which Poisson hu_
ass'iogned*.

· If we transform e* by replacing x by                                          -v we shall get the expression

e * , which may be easily shown as above, and also by other means, to be
equal to zero when x' is equal to zero, and equal to 1 when x' is equal to in

finity.                           of  Dublin,  in a paper        in the Irish Transactions
Professor Hamilton
                                            l                                                            for 1830,

has quoted the expression e x as possessing some very peculiar properties,
which are inconsistent            Itwiisthcotmhemounnliyvearsssaulmityedofthaatve"ryif
principle of analysis.                                                                  commonly received
                                                                                        a real function of a
positive variable x approaches to zero with the variable, and vanishes along
with     it,then that function can be developed in real series of the form
                p,                          +
                                  A x"         B
                                                    3?
                                                       +
                                                             C
                                                                    +a
                                                                 x* &c.                                     (1.)

where «, y, &c., are constant and positive, A, B, C, &c., constant, and all
those coefficients different from zero but we put the equation under the
form
                                               :

                                                       if

                   x~m *? = -(- xP~"e       a                    +                 xV~'+ &c.,
                          i                                          C
-jsupposing a the least of the several indicese      B                          «, y, &c., then
                                                                             /3,
shall find x _ " * =0orA equal to zero                                                                 x=                we
                                                                                                       1 if              we

                                                                                                                     0,
                                                                 for we replace -- by y,
                                                                 ;

                                                                        if

shall get

                                      1

                                                           J i_

                                            _J_ = xa e*3 = y~'ey'

all whose terms are positive, and which, when x= ory= oo will necessarily
                                                        a                               ,
                                                                    0                          e
                                                                                                        is
become equal to infinity          :       follows, therefore, that the function ** not ca

                                     it
                                         a
pable of developement in series of the assumed form (I.). The same ex
pression, as has been remarked by Professor Hamilton, has been noticed by
Cauchy as an example of the vanishing of function and of all its differential
coefficients, for particular value of the variable, without the function va
                     a

nishing for other values of the variable, thus forming an exception to another
principle generally received                in analysis. In his Lecons sur Calcul Infinite
simal, Cauchy has produced                   this last anomaly as a sufficient reason for not      le

founding the        principles of the differential calculus                     upon the developement                    of
functions, as       effected by or exhibited in, the series                     of Taylor.

It                   tohfatthemoinreterepnrlaertgaetdionvoiefwthseocfirtchuemastnaanlycteiscaol f  relations of zero
                                                                                                   their occurrence,
     is
           possible
and  infinity, and

as well as of the principles and applications of Taylor's series, may enable
us to explain these and other anomalies, and to show that they arise natu
rally and necessarily out of the very framework of analysis but must be
                                                                                        is
                                                                                            ;
                                                                                                     it
confessed that there are many other difficulties, which are yet unexplained,
which are connected with the developement of e* when x negative or ima-
              REPORT ON CERTAIN BRANCHES OF ANALYSIS.                                             347

   Another method of approximation to the roots of equations
by means of recurring series was proposed by Daniel Ber
nIfouwleli*w, riatneddvoewrny  extensively illustrated and applied by
                               m arbitrary numbers to form the first                              Eulerf.

                                                                                                  m terms
of the series, and if we assume, for the scale of relation, the
coefficients of an equation of m dimensions, and form by means
of it and the assumed terms the other terms of the series which

may be indefinitely continued, and if we also form a series of

quotients by dividing each succeeding term (after the arbitrary
                                                       then the terms of the se
              a

                                              it,

                                                                                                                            ;

                                                                        if
terms) by that which precedes
ries of quotients which thence arise, will converge continually
towards the value of the greatest root of the equation and
we form the equation whose roots are the reciprocals of those
of the original equation, and proceed in a similar manner, we
shall obtain series of quotients which will converge to the
greatest root of this equation, whose reciprocal will be the least
root of the original equation, considered without reference to
its algebraical sign.
   Lagrange, in the 6th Note to his Resolution des Equations
Numiriques, has analysed the principles of this method, and
has shown that its success will depend upon the greatest real
Ifroot, without reference to algebraical sign, being greater than
the modulus of any of the imaginary roots.                     this condition be
not satisfied, the quotients will not approximate to the value of
any root of the equation, a consequence which Euler had also

pointed out.
The recurring series which formed by dividing the first
              f

                    f
                                        is
                                                           is
derivative function (x) by (x), which equal to

ginary.       Some of these have been noticed in the note to p. 267, in connexion
with our      observations upon Mr. Graves's researches upon the theory of loga
rithms        another noticed by M. Clausen of Altona, in the second volume of
   ;

       is
            a

                       is
                                   it
                                             is
V_1Crelle's Journal, p. 287;
                                                 stated as follows :-- Since e2n *                =  1,
"f-iwhen «
              whole number, we get +2nr                        = and therefore
                                                 n e1

                                                    is

                                                                                 e
                                                                                            e

                                                                                   Ia
#(J + S»»V^)»_,l + 2»rV^T_a_.el+4i.»</ri-4«»«»j and
                                                       a whole number,-- conclusion
consequently e-- 4"2*S = whenever
                                   is 1,             Its explanation      involves no             other
                                                                     2n                             and
                                                                         « -- =1,
                                                 the equation
which M.

V idifficulty
              Clausen characterizes as absurd.
              than that which included in
must be sought for in the circumstances which accompany the transition from
function to its equivalent series, when a strict arithmetical equality does not
a                                  must be confessed,  however, that     these                    difficulties
           a                                           way deserving                              more care
exist between them.            It                                        of

are of very serious nature, and are in every           i.

                                                                                               a
ful examination and analysis than they have hitherto received.
· Comment. Acad. Petrop., vol. iii.
   Introductio in Analysim Infinilorum, vol. cap. xvii.
t
    11348 THIRD REPORT -- 1833
                          1 x -- p x -- y + &c,

    when a, y, &c, are the roots of the equation, whether real or
      /3,

                                           is
    imaginary, has been shown by Lagrange to be the series fur
    nished by this method which most easily formed, and to be
    likewise that which converges most rapidly and certainly to a
    geometrical series in the case of equal roots. In every case the
    terms of the series of quotients are alternately greater and less
    than the root to be determined, and consequently furnish a mea
    sure of the accuracy of the approximation.
    This method of approximation generally less rapid and
    certain than those which have already been considered, and,is
    as commonly stated, extremely limited in its application.is
       true, as has been shown by Lagrange, that a knowledge ofis                             ; It

C isthe limits of the roots would enable us to apply to the deter
                                                                    it
  CF                                                                        it
                                                                                 is
    mination of all the real roots by means of a series of transformed
    equations equal to their number, such as required in the New
    tonian method of approximation, and also in that of Lagrange
    but under such circumstances, and with such data,
                                                                                     more

    convenient and more expeditious to employ those methods in
    preference to the one which we are now considering.
    Fourier has shown in what manner this method may be ap
    plied to determine all the roots of an equation, whether ima
    ginary or real. Let us suppose a, c, e, &c, to represent
    the roots of the  oemfqioumadatuigolini;naaarnyrrdaronlogetetsdAb,eininBgt,heCe,sotirDmd,aetrEedo, f&bmyca,tghnebiteumdtaehg,ea
                                                   a is b,
    the magnitudes                                          d,

    nitudes of their
    terms of the recurring series, whose quotients furnish the value
    AD BEof the greatest root,when that root

    cond place, series whose terms are
                                               real. Form, in the se
                                                              -- BC,  -- CD,
      Ba-- D E, &c, which also a recurring series, whose quo
                                  is

    - - -tients may be easily shown to approximate to the sum of the
    two first roots a  +  b.     Again, form series whose terms are

    A B«, D                              D2, &c, which also recurring
                          C4,  C E                                  is
                                                                       +
    series, whose successive quotients will approximate to the valueb.       b
    of the greatest product a                In similar manner, we may de       +a
                                                                                     c
    duce from the primitive recurring series three other recurring                         b
    series, the terms of the convergent series formed by whose quo
    tients will form, in the first series, the sum a                  of the
three first roots in the second, the sum of their products two
or two, or a  +;       a                     and in the third their continued
      b                   c  +
          b                      b
                                   c

                                          ;

product a c: and similarly for four or greater number of
roots. If, therefore, we suppose the first root a to be imaginary,
                                               ;

                                                                 a
the first series will give no result but the values of a + and
     REPORT ON CERTArN BRANCHES OF ANALYSIS.                                 349

of a b, which are given by the two first recurring series de
rived from the primitive recurring series, will enable us to de

termine their separate values : in both cases the series of quo
Iftients is convergent.
       the third  root be    real, the third series of derived quotients
is  convergent               the fourth series will be so, and so on as
                  ; if not,

far as we wish to proceed.
   These propositions have been merely announced by Fourier
in his Introduction. The chapter of his work, which contains

Ifthe demonstrations, has not yet been published.

       the root of an equation be determined approximately, the
equation may be depressed, and the general processes of solu
tion or of approximation may be applied to find the roots of

^-3*the quotient of the division. Thus, in the equation
                                          + 2-0000001 = 0,
one of the roots is very nearly equal to 1, if we divide the

equation by x -- 1, and neglect the small remainder which re

- -sults from the division, we shall get the quotient
                 a* -- x 2 = (x 1) (x + 2) = 0,

whose roots are 1 and -- 2 ; or we may suppose one of the
roots to be 1-0001, the second -9999, and the third -- 2; or
we may suppose two of the roots to be imaginary, namely,
V1 + -0001        -- 1.  All these roots are approximate values of

the roots of the equation, which different processes, whether
tentative or direct, may determine : and it is obvious that when
two roots are equal, or nearly so, an inaccuracy of the approxi
mation to those roots which are employed in the depression of
the primitive equation may convert real roots into imaginary,
or conversely. Such consequences will never follow when the
limits and nature of the roots are previously ascertained, and
every root is determined independently of the rest ; but it is
not very easy to prevent their occurrence when methods of ap
proximation are applied without any previous inquiries into the
nature and limits of the roots, though the resulting conversion
of imaginary roots into real, and of real roots into imaginary,
may not deprive them of the character of true approximations
Ifto the values of the roots which are required to be determined.
     the limits of the       roots of an equation F x = 0 be assigned,
and
     if the Newtonian        method of approximation be applied con
                  osfetrhieesse*  limits  a,      should  obtain,  for
tinually to one                               we                        the  value
of the root, the

     a-a<Fa+^(Faf-r^-^(Faf+ &c,

     · Lagrange, Resolution det Equations Numiriques, Note li.
350 THIRD REPORT -- 1833.

where

                 °' =  -P1o    (F a)2 ~                    (Fa)3

                               «' Via n          T      3  a' (F" of
                               (F'a)8
                            F"a                            (F a)4

                    ~       (F^)4                +      3 (F' a)8  "
                                                         (F a)*

This series was first assigned by Euler, and the observations
which we have had occasion to make in the preceding pages
upon linear approximations will at once explain the circum
stances under which it may be safely applied : it cannot be
viewed, however, in any other light than as the analytical ex
pression for the result of the application of such linear approxi
mations, repeated as many times as there are terms of the series
succeeding the first.
The celebrated theorem of Lagrange, which is so extensively
used in the solution of the transcendental equations which pre
sent themselves in physical and plane astronomy, will enable
us to assign, likewise, a series for the least root, or for any
function of the least root of an equation in terms of its coeffi
cients. Mr. Murphy, in a very able memoir in the Transac
tions of the Philosophical Society of Cambridge for 1831, has
shown the mode in which such series may be determined, by
means of a very simple rule, which admits of very rapid and
ver"yTeoxtfeinnsdivteheaspeprileicsatfoiornt.he  The    rule  is as follows :
                                                        root  of the equation  tp (x) = 0,
                                                 least

divide the equation by x, and take the Napierian logarithm of

the quotient which arises ; then the coefficient of -- with its

sign changed is the series which expresses the least root re
quired."
   Thus, to find the series for the least root of the quadratic

equation               x* + a x + b = 0,

find the coefficient, with its sign changed, of -- in log

or log I 1 +        x_ 1, which is

I\ A ¥ 8.7.6j. 6.5a+A*4 &3  +                    A4                   A5       1
              +     '          2~7 3 '           a7     +     2.3.4"      +
          a3                                                          a*       J'
                      "a*
              REPORT ON CERTAIN BRANCHES OF ANALYSIS.             351

              identical with that which arises from the deve-
-- \and therefore

lopementof
              a              ( a2  ~  *)-  ^ bhe greater than a9 the
              o- +         ^VX

roots of the equation are impossible, and the series becomes
divergent, and gives no result.
 fAny function
fmay be found
--            "  (x)       of the least    root of an equation p (x) = 0
                 by        subtracting     from (0) the coefficient of
fx
    in        (x) log l-xLJ," ,This more general theorem evidently

inc"luTdehse  the former.  assigned    number (m) of roots of     the equa
                                      coefficient, with its sign  changed,
              sum of any
tion <p(x) = 0 is equal to the
    1
of      in    log° i^xm."
    X
    The expression for the sum of m roots of an equation which
is thus obtained gives the arithmetical value of the sum of the
m least roots. In estimating the order of magnitude of such
roots no regard is paid to their signs of affection.
    Mr. Murphy has shown in what manner the same general
proposition which is employed in the deduction of the results
just given may be applied to the investigation of some of the
most general theorems which have been employed in analysis
for the developement and transformation of functions. Amongst

many others the following very remarkable theorem seems to

merit particular notice.
    If xv xv x3, . . xm be the m least roots of the equation
                           af -(x --  h F (x) = 0,
then,
              /(*i) +/(**) +/(*a) + - · -/(*)

              = */W + h l.2..(m-l)da-

                A9         d""- '{/(a)     (F(a))a}      T
                                                 da""-1
              1 .2'
              -I)r
                           I.2        (2m

  If in this  very general      theorem    we  make  m   = 1, it becomes
              of Lagrange                  we  make  m   equal to the di
the theorem                     ; and if
mensions of the equation, or greater than any power of x in
volved in F (x), then it becomes the theorem which Cauchy
has given, without demonstration, in the ninth volume of the

fnew series of the Memoirs of the Institute, for the expression

of the sum of the different values of (x), when x is succes
sively replaced by every root of the equation.

   The preceding conclusions, so very remarkable for their
great generality, and for the very simple means employed in
352 THIRD REPORT -- 1833.

their derivation, will be sufficient to direct the attention of the
reader to the other contents of this very original and valuable

memoir.
   There are some other most important departments of the
general theory of equations which it was my intention to have
noticed, and without which no report upon the present state
and recent progress of algebra can be said to be complete.
Amongst these may be particularly mentioned the theory of
elimination and the solution of simultaneous equations, and also
the theory of the solution of literal and of implicit equations.
The very undue length, however, to which this Report has
already extended, and the arrangements which have been made
Iconnected with the publication of this volume, compel me,
though most reluctantly, to omit them.                                      venture to indulge
a hope, however, that I may be allowed upon some future oc
Icasion to add a short supplemental Report upon this extensive

department of analysis, in which may be enabled to supply
some of the numerous deficiencies of the preceding sketch.

              ERRATA IN THE FOREGOING REPORT.

          line 21, dele not
lP--age197,--
    215,  --
 -- 215,
               3, for T (r) T (1 r)        read T (r) T (1 -- r)                 t*      +  2x    +
                                           for x3 + 2 + x 1 read
              1 1 from the bottom,

-- 221, -- 15, for cos 1 -- read cos-1 --
                              ee
                                                 vc,oa,s' -+,'
--  226,  --  2    from  the  bottom, ·for                      a             _  cos-'.         a  b*
--        --                                                          read
--  234,  --                                                    6.s.                     v.a* +
    240,
               7,  for   (0)  read   (0)»  case  (a  --  b)"          read       If we   suppose   n to be
              18,  for   In   this  last

                   an even whole number or a fraction in its lowest terms
                       with an even numerator, then (a -- 6)"
--  240,  --
--  248,  --  10 from the bottom, for fraction read function

               6, for diventical read diacritical

-- 251, -ll.ybrcoe{*-fc±i>r}««fco.{*-^±i)}r
-- 259, -- 23, dele or the greatest of the two quantities a. and /3
-- 261, -- 14, for-- read --
--
--  263,  --  15, for X' read X
    316,  --  29, for x" -- 1 = 0 read *» -- 1 = 0.
,/;.// </the tint. Assoc f'olj. p.353 .

                                          -SlJwMcj^ OtsT&fak

                                                                      ^Apparattiifir the. CornpnuswHof
                                                                                WATEJt^,

                  \D^ C

                   n

                  fU.t ^--^B

WJ3rown../cuLo .
                           { 353 ]

TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.

          1. MATHEMATICS AND PHYSICS.

On the    Compressibility  ifeoffl.WWiaLtLeirA. MWBfyiEWPrEofLeLs,sodrateCdECrsotpeedn.
   (From  a Letter to the
hagen, June 18, 1833.)

                                           (_With an Engraving.]

" Were I not withheld by official duties, I should certainly not

omit so excellent an opportunity of renewing the very interest
ing and useful acquaintance 1 made during my last visit to
England and    Scotland, and of forming
distinguished                              nI ewwasonensot    with those
               scientific characters that                       fortunate

enough to meet with at that time, or such as have risen to emi

Inence of late years. But though I must now forgo this ad

vantage, will not let this opportunity pass without giving the

Iillustrious assembly some mark of my high esteem, and of my

desire to keep up the friendly intercourse which have main
tained with the British philosophers since my acquaintance with

Iyou"r
 happy country.        aware  that        have published several no
You are, perhaps,
tices upon the compressibility of water, the first as early as
I1818, and the first description of the improved method in 1 822.

Since that time have still gone on improving my methods, and
Iam now preparing a paper on the subject for the Transactions
of the Royal   Society of Sciences at     Copenhagen.         will endea
                                                              and its re
vour to give   you a succinct account      of my method
        It has been                        the apparatus for
sults.                 ofofuwnhdichthaIt  published in 1822,   compressing
water,  a description                                         can give very

accurate results ; so that the results it has given in the hands of
philosophers in different countries, have agreed more than
might have been expected. Next to the accuracy of the mea
surements, however, one of the most important requisites oi
such an apparatus is, that the experiments be performed with
the greatest celerity possible. When the experiment is pro
tracted, the change of temperature produces great variations in
the volume of the water, -r-J-5-of the thermical measure (1° cen-
1833.                         2a

                                                                                         '
354                       THIRD REPORT 1833.

tigrade *) causing at high temperatures the volume of the water
to vary more than the pressure of 3, 4, or even 5 atmospheres.

  "The improved apparatus is represented in the diagram fig. 1 .
KhigIntolsagwspsearviecnpryc,ilisipntoadsnloempr,aIemrthsacnhvaiarnoneg,gtemhaetoivtssheamedinettboraoypsdauiancecstdyhcr.elienwedaeArrlieEBKr;,FCinaGDseaHicnihs,  of them,

                                                                                                                                                                    a strong
                                                                                                                                                                    contain
                                                                                                                                                                    the first

apparatus ; but the handle 1 1 is now arranged in such a man
ner that the screw can be turned without interruption ; by this

means the effect is accelerated, and subitaneous strokes avoided.

The bottle ccc, with its capillary tube a a, is different from
the earlier only so far, that the tube is not soldered to the bot
tle, but merely adjusted by grinding. This alteration is not
necessary except when solid bodies are to be compressed. The

scale efg h is divided into parts of -^ inch. In order to ex
clude the water with which the large cylinder is filled, from com
munication with that of the bottle, the top of the tube a a is
covered with a small diving-bell, or rather diving-cap, ppp,
whose conical shape has the advantage of preventing the water
from reaching the top of the tube a a, even when the air is com
pressed to a tenth or twelfth part of its first volume. Its margin
is loaded with a ring of lead or brass, c d is a glass tube with
proper divisions, containing air, whose compression measures
the pressure ; its inferior part is loaded with some lead or a
ring of brass, t u z is a siphon ; P, a vessel containing water ;

i i are two buoys of cork for lifting up the bottle and the glass
tube cd; s r is a tube of brass, which can be stopped by a
          In the beginning                                           of
screw.   serves to introduce  and at the          conclusion             the                                                                                         experi
ment it                       water into          the space        EF
                                                                         G                                                                                          H, or to
get it out again. Before the experiments the calibre of the
two tubes must be exactly ascertained, and the relative capaci
Ities of the bottle and its capillary tube determined by the quan
tities of mercury they can admit.                 have had some tubes in
which -fa of an inch
lionths of the capacity   (making    one division) held only 2                                                                                                       mil-
                                   bottle, in others they have                                                                                                      held
                          of the
more, in some even as much as 7 millionths. The capacity of
the bottle was not less         1 \ pound, often 2  pounds of mer
                          than                      be boiled in the
cury. It is next filled   with  water, which must
bottle in order to expel the air, which might be suspected of
having a great influence in these experiments, though Canton

· The unit of thermical measurement is the distance between the freezing
and the boiling point. I think that the most natural expression for the tem
peratures would be this unit and its fractions. Thus, the temperature 0-50
Iwould   be the same as 50° centigrade,
I will  mark this metrical measure by Th.  1I9f-  30 the same as   1930° centigrade.
                                                  this innovation  should not please,
wish that it might be suppressed, and centigrade degrees put in the place,
which is an easy change.
                     TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                355

has already observed that this is not the case. When the large
cIfylitnhdeetrubise  filled with                              be immersed in it.
                      a a is full  water, the bottle   is to  must be expelled,

                                   of water, a little  of it
which can be done by heating it gently with the hand, or better,
by introducing a wire into it. As the bottle may be considered
as a water thermometer, it is easy to ascertain whether it is in
thermical equilibrium with the water in the cylinder. The air
in the tube c d must likewise be brought to the same tempera
ture with the water, before it is ultimately immersed. When
Ifthe pumping cylinder shall be placed in its box, the piston
must be at G H.                    the large cylinder is full of water, part of
it will be expelled through the siphon t u z. Now the piston is
to be lifted up by means of the screw, whereby the pumping
cylinder is filled   wthiethtuwbaeterr. s   When this is done,
taken away, and                            is stopped by a screw  the siphon is
                                                                  appertaining
to it. The experiment is most conveniently performed by three
persons ; one turning the screw, the second observing the height
of the water in the tube a a, and the third observing the volume

of the air in the tube c d : the last writes down the numbers ob
served. Now, the point where the water stands in the tube of
the bottle is to be noted. The descending piston having re
duced the volume of the air in the tube c d to the point desired,
the observer of it takes hold of the handle of the screw, and

keeps the volume unchanged until the other observer has settled
the point to which the water is brought down, and writes down
the observation. When the piston is lifted up to its first place,

Ithe screw at r is to be opened, and the state of the water in the

capillary tube again noted down. commonly make ten or more
such observations, one after another, which is performed in less
than ten minutes when the operators are accustomed to work to
gether. An example will illustrate the use of the observations.

                                           2a2
356              THIRD REPORT-- 1833.

   " The height of the mercury in the barometer, reduced to the
freezing point, was at the same time 332-36 French lines. The
volume of the air was in each experiment reduced to 5-264, or
the pressure added to that of the atmosphere was 4-264 atmo
spheres. The pressure reduced to lines of mercury is thus,
332-36 x 4-264 = 1417-18; yet this reduction was not produced
by the united pressure of the atmosphere and the piston alone,
but was aided by a pressure of 40 lines of water, whose effect
is equal to that of 2-94 lines of mercury, which is to be de
ducted, leaving then a pressure of 1414-24. Now, when a
pressure of 1414-24 produces a descent of 49-96 parts, a pres
sure of 336 must produce a descent of nearly 11-87 parts.
Each part makes in the instrument here employed 3-497 mil-
lionths of the whole capacity. 11-87 x 3-497 gives ultimately
41-51. The    temperature of
0-20 Th., at                   the  water was at the beginning
              the end 0-2025        by the thermometer. The
                              Th.,

water stood 10-1 parts, about 35 millionths, higher at the
end of the experiments than at the beginning. This gives
0-202 Th., which is as perfect an agreement as could be de
sired, the difference being only 0-0005 of the thermical mea
Isure, or 0-09 degree of the scale of Fahrenheit. During the

last three months have not made use of the tube c d for mea

LMNsuring the compression of air, but I have employed a glass tube

           (fig. 2.), whose shape is better seen in the diagram than
it can be described. The capacity of the part above the line y,
and that of the whole, are measured by weights of mercury. When
the instrument is sunk in the water, the liquid mounts in the tube
which has the scale O, whose parts are likewise measured by
mercury. This has the double advantage of giving a more ac
curate measure, and of showing whether or not the volume of
air has changed. In the series of experiments above mentioned
Ithis measure has been employed. By a considerable number

of experiments, have found that the compressibility of water
is not so great in high temperatures as in lower. Canton had
already obtained this result, but some doubts might remain, be
cause his experiments were made by means much more trouble
some to make use of, and at a time when all instruments were
less perfect. Here, as well as in the whole research into the
                 of water, the new experiments prove the great
compressibility   judgement of this distinguished philosopher.
skill and acute

My experiments are much more numerous than his, and have
been extended to a greater range of temperatures. Their re
sults may be expressed by supposing that the pressure of one
atmosphere equivalent to 336 French lines' height of mercury
develops a heat 0-00025 Th. = 0-045° Fahr. In calculating
               TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                   357

this I have made use of the tables of Professor Stampfer at
Vienna, who finds the                     contraction of water at 0-0375
                                 highest  point the recession of water by
Th., or 38-75° Fahr.*
                                 At this
the pressure of one atmosphere is 46-77 millionths. At 0-0y 125
Th. the volume of the water augments 71 '75 millionths, having
its temperature augmented 001 Th. The heat developed by the

pressure thus augments its volume 0-00025 . 7»1»'7.5 = 1-79 mil

lionth, or the recession is 46-77 -- 1-79 = 44-98 millionths.
Actual experiments have given it 44-89, or 0-09 millionth

               · PART OF STAMPFER'S TABLE.

            '  Temperatures ac   Volumes of the  Differences.
.                cording to the         water.
               centigrade ther                      104
                     mometer.      1 000373           87
                                   1 000269           69
                     --3           1-000182           52
                           2       1-000113           36
                                   1-000061           20
                             1     1-000025             5
                           0       1000005                1
                                   1-000000
                      +1                               11
                         2         1 000001           26
                           3                          41
                                   1 00001 2
                          3-75     1 000038          56
                           4       1000079            70
                          5        1000135            84
                          6        1 000205           98
                                   1- 000289        110
                            7                       123
                          8        1-000387
                          9        1000497          137
                        10         1000620          149
                          11       1000757          160
                         12        1 000906         173
                         13        1001066          183
                          14       1-001239         195
                         15        1 001 422        205
                         16        1001617
                                   1-001822         217
                         17        1- 002039        226
                           18      1-002265
                                   1002502          237
                          19       1-002749         247
                        20         1 003005         256
                                                    266
                          21       1-003271         274
                        22         1003545          283
                                    1-003828        291
                       23           1 0041 19       299
                        24         1004418
                        25
                         26

                         27
                         28
                         29
                         30
358             THIRD REPORT 1833.

greater. The coincidence is often less perfect. At 0-1775 Th.
the quantity calculated is 42-65, the quantity given by experi
ment 43-03, a difference of 0-38 millionth. The experiment
mentioned above gave a recession = 41 '51 at 0-20125 Th.
         of the temperatures of the beginning and end of the se
(mean    The calculation gives 41 -63, or a difference of 0-12 mil
ries).
lionth.    At 0-005 Th. the change of volume produced by one
0-01 is 60-5 millionths, but inversely, as the water at low tem
perature loses in volume by augmented heat ; thus an addition

j^is to be made equal to   . 0-00025 = 1 -5. Now 46-77 + 1-5

     48-27, experiment     48-02. At 0-019 the   quantity calcul
     is 47-72, that given                            have not yet
                           by experiment 47-97.
Iffaitveeds
finished        tedious discussion of all       experiments, but as
           the                             the  the hypothesis with
far as I  have  proceeded the agreement
                                            of
facts is satisfactory. Messrs. Colladon and Sturm have in the
calculation of their experiments introduced a correction founded
upon the supposition that the glass of the bottle in which the
water is compressed should suffer a compression so great as to
have an influence upon the results. Their supposition is, that
the diminution of volume produced by a pressure on all sides
can be calculated by the change of length which takes place in
a rod during longitudinal traction or pression. Thus, a rod of
glass, lengthened by a traction equal to the weight of the atmo
sphere as much as 1 -1 millionth, should by an equal pression on
all sides lose 3'3 millionths, or, according to a calculation by the
illustrious Poisson, 1-65 millionth. As the mathematical cal
culation here is founded upon physical suppositions, it is not
only allowable, but necessary, to try its results by experiment.
Were the hypothesis of this calculation just, the result would
Ibe, that most of the solids were more compressible than mer

cury. For this purpose have procured cylinders of glass, of
lead, and of tin, which filled the greater part of a cylinder, to
Iwhich a stopple of glass, perforated by a capillary tube, was
adjusted by grinding.      have not yet exactly discussed all the
experiments on this subject, but the numbers obtained are such
as to show that the results are widely different from those cal
culated after the supposition above mentioned. The quantity
assigned by this calculation to the glass is very small indeed,
yet the experiment gives it much less. Lead, which extends,
according to Tredgold, 20-45 millionths by a weight equal to that
of the atmosphere, and thus much more by the pressure on all

sides, does not change one millionth. Tin is not more com
          The inverse experiment is, perhaps, still more
          published it some years ago : however, as have now
IIpressible.

striking.
                 TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                                           359

repeated these experiments, and as they appear hitherto not to

Ihave satisfied philosophers, shall here mention, that in all my
Iexperiments upon the subject, have invariably found that the

recession of the water in the capillary tube is about 1 -5 millionth
greater in bottles of lead or tin than in those of glass. Sup
posing the compressibility of the solid bodies to be so small
that it cannot be observed in those experiments, yet the heat
developed by the compression, feeble as it is, produces a small
aIfugthmeendtialatitoantioonf           recession of              in the capillary tube.
                               the      rod of glass  the  water  is 0-0009, its cubical
                                                       by
                               of a                        1 Th.
dilatation is 0'0027, and the dilatation by an increase of 0-00025
is 0-000000675, or nearly 7 ten millionths. The dilatation of lead
is about 3 times greater, and the bottle containing it must get an
increase of 0-00000225, which exceeds the former by more than
1-5 millionth. The dilatation of tin should give only one mil
Ilionth more than glass, but it seems to give a little more, yet

the quantity is not great. After all this, think that the true
compressibility of water is about 46-1 millionths, and that the
apparent compressibility depends upon the effect of the heat
developed by the compression, by which the liquid and the bot
tle"arMe ydiclaotnetdin. ued experiments have confirmed my earlier re
Isult, that the  differences of volume in the
                                                           coImdporensoset dknwoawteirf  are
proportionate    to the compressing power.                                               the
method have made use of to try the effects of high compression
has been published in England. These experiments cannot be
made in a cylinder of glass ; one of metal is required. As, in
this case, the opacity prevents direct observations being made,
an index, nearly like that in Six's register-thermometer, is
placed in the capillary tube of the bottle. This tube is dilated
a little at the top, so as to form a minute funnel. Some drops
                                            it,
of mercury are poured into which being pressed, pushes the
index forward thus the recession may be seen when the bottle
is is
       3,
           is

                                     ;

                                a
taken out of the large cylinder. The compression of the air
                                                   bent tube, of the form shown in
HIFGmeasured in another way                 :

                                                a

fig. fixed in glass vessel                                 containing mercury, and
exposed to the pressure together with the bottle. The pressure
of the piston upon the water in the cylinder communicated to
                                                                  is

the mercury, and pushes into the wide part of the tube, as far
                                        it

ABCD,as the resistance of the air will permit. The weight of the mer
cury driven into the wide part                                    together with that
which has filled D E, and which may be computed, compared
with the weight of mercury which the whole tube can admit,
gives the volume of the air compressed. By this kind of ex
periment have found that the decrease of volume produced by
I
3(50 THIRD REPORT -- 1833.

pressure preserves the same proportion to the pressing power

Ias far as the pressure of 65 atmospheres, and probably much

further ; but how far, have not hitherto been able to try, my

Iapp"arahtuasve  not having   resisted a greater pressure.                                    into
                  thus given
                              you a short abstract of my researches
the compressibility of water.         TheI yshmoauyldbefeeclomnsuidcehrefdlattearseda
continuation of those of Canton.
if they should obtain the approbation of the philosophers of the
country where the first good experiments upon the subject have

been made."

OnOspotmices.ResBuyltsWoilfliathme    VRie.wHaomf ailtoCnh,araMc.tRer.iIs.tiAc.,              Function in
tronomer of Ireland.                                                                           Royal As

The author gave a statement of some optical results, deduced
from the view which he had explained in the preceding year at
Oxford.
   His general method, for the study of optical systems, consists
in expressing the properties of any optical combination by the
form of one characteristic function, one central or radical
relation. In order to investigate the properties of the systems
of rays, produced by any object-glass, or atmosphere, or other
optical instrument, or combination of surfaces and media, ordi
nary or extraordinary, he has proposed, as a fundamental pro
blem, to express for any such combination, the laws of depend
ence of the final and initial directions of a linear path of light
oAnndthethfeinsaolluatinodn  initial  positions or points, and on the colour.
                             which    he has offered for this fundamental pro

blem consists, 1 st, in reducing by uniform methods (analogous
to the methods of discussing the equation of a curve or surface,)
these several laws of dependence (of the four extreme angles of
direction of a curved or polygon ray on the six extreme coordi
nates and on the colour,) to that one law, different for different
combinations, according to which his one characteristic function

depends on the same seven variables. And 2ndly, in establish
ing uniform processes for the research of the form of this func
tion, namely, the action or time of propagation of the light, for
any proposed combination.
For example, in the case of a single plane mirror, supposed to
coincide  with the plane of x y, we may propose to determine the
          the two extreme directions of the linear path by which
laws of

light goes to an eye (x y z) from an object
/3                                                                                            */), or (ex

                                                     «'

                                                                              /3'

                                             ./,
                                                                                         (x1
                                                                                  y*
pressing the same thing more fully,) to determine the final co
sines « y, and the initial cosines    of the inclinations of
             TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                                                  361

Jthis bent path to   tyhez'p, otshitaivt eis,seomfiatxhees  of   coordinates, as func
                                                            six  extreme coordinates
tions of x y z,
themselves, the colour being here indifferent. And Mr. Ha
                                for this and                refoflrecatollrso, th--era
milton's general solution,     of ordinary                                              questions
respecting combinations               --ofisa                                             solution

which   is itself a  particular case           more general result, extend
ing to  all optical    combinations,           expressed by the following

equations :          8V ,,            SV                               SV

             a!. --  --8 V     P,,.~  8V                    Y,~        SV                   (!·)

                         $x!'         Sy"                              82" J

the characteristic function V representing, in all questions re
specting combinations of reflectors, the length of the bent path
-of the light, and being for the present mirror of the form
        V = ·(*-*')*+ (y iff + (* + *7,                                                     (*.)

but being different in other cases. Thus, for a reflecting sphere,
or for a Newtonian telescope, the length of a bent path of light
would depend differently on the extreme points of that path,
      we     should have a different form for the characteristic func
and           but by substituting this new form in the equations (1
tion  V   ;                                                                             :

we should still deduce the connected forms of the six direction-                               .),
functions or direction-cosines, a/3 y, a!                   /3'
                                                                ; y1,  and so might deduce
all the other properties of the telescope at least, all the pro
perties connected with its effects upon systems of rays.
        may be perceived from what has been said, that Mr. Hamil
ton divides mathematical optics into two principal parts oneit
part proposing to find   in            particular case the form                         of
characteristic function: It    every  the other part proposing                              the
                         V,     and                                                     to  use
                                                       one class of problems to
      as in algebraical geometry,
                     ;

                              it
                                  is

                                           it
                                                   is
determine the equations of curves or surfaces which satisfy as
signed conditions and          another class of problems to discuss
these equations when determined. The investigations which
the author has printed in the fifteenth, sixteenth, and seven

teenth volumes of the Transactions of the Royallrish Academy,
contain examples of both these inquiries, although they relate
chiefly to the second part, or second class of problems, namely, to
the using of his function, supposed found. He has endeavoured
to establish, for such using, system of general formulae, and has
                               a

deduced many general consequences and properties of optical
systems, independent of the particular shapes and positions
and other peculiarities of the surfaces and media of any optical
362                         THIRD REPORT 1833.

combination. A few results less general than these, and yet

themselves extensive, may not improperly, perhaps, be men

tioned here.

   When we wish to study the properties of any object-glass,
or eye-glass, or other instrument in vacuo, symmetric in all re
spects, about one axis of revolution, we may take this for the
axis of z, and we shall still have the equations (1.), the charac
                            V being now a function of the five quantities,
*te2ri+stiyc*f,uxncxt'io+n  y y, j/* + y'*, s, z1, involving also, in general,
the colour, and having its form determined by the properties of
the instrument of revolution. Reciprocally, these properties
of the instrument are included in the form of the characteristic
function V, or in the form of this other connected function,

      T = «x + &y + yz -o!i'-py1 _/*' -- V, (3.)

which may be considered as depending on only three inde
pendent variables besides the colour ; namely, on the inclina
tions of the final and      initial portions of a   luminous path          Tto each
other and to the axis       of the instrument.      Algebraically,              is in
general a function of the colour and of the three quantities,
a? + /3', a a! + (3 /3', a'2 + (¥*; and it may usually (though not
in every case) be developed according to ascending powers, po
sitive and integer, of these three latter quantities, which in
most applications are small, of the order of the squares of the
inclinations. We may therefore in most cases confine our
selves to an approximate expression of the form

                            T = TW + T« + TTM,                             (4.)

itnhewsheicchonTd(0o) ridseirn,deipfetnhdoesnet  of the inclinations : Tw is small of
                                                 inclinations be small, and is of the

form

      T» = P («· + ?) + P, (« ol + (9               + P' («* + /S»)
                                                 +                         (5.)
                                                               ft)         ;

                                                                       is     T
and T(4) small of the fourth order, and of the form
      is
          +
                      +
                         +
TW=Q(«s ^)9 Q,(*a+/39)(««' + /9^) + Q'(«a+|S9)(«'i+/3'2)lrg,
+ QH(««,+^^T Q'/(*«' ^/3')(«/J+)3'*) + Q"(««-rP'2)*;
PP,PQthe nine coefficients,
                                                 Q, Q' Q,, Q', Q", being either
constant, or at least only functions of the colour. The optical
properties of the instrument, to great degree of approxima
                                                 a

Ttion, depend usually on these nine coefficients and on                    their

chromatic variations, because the function may in most                     cases

be very approximately expressed by them, and because the
fundamental equations (1.) may rigorously be thus transformed
                                                                           ;
              TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                                      363
                                                                                 (7.)
              JT _«                                   0_  ST
                                                                      ~J

         , «'_ ST , ?, ST f

The first three coefficients, P  P, P', which enter by (5.) into
                                  are those on which the focal
the expression of the term Tw,

lengths, the magnifying powers, and the chromatic aberrations
depend : the spherical aberrations, whether for direct or in
clined rays, from a near or distant object, at either side of the
instrument (but not too far from the axis), depend on the six
other coefficients, Q Q, Q* Q,, Q'( Q", in the expression of
the term Tw. Here, then, we have already a new and remark
able property of object-glasses, and eye-glasses, and other
optical instruments of revolution ; namely, that all the circum
stances of their spherical aberrations, however varied by di
rsatadniccealorcoinncsltinaanttiosno, fdaebpeenrdrat(iuosnu,allya)ndomn aythbee  values of six
                                                                                 deduced from
these six numbers by uniform and general processes. And as,

by employing general symbols to denote the constant co
efficients or elements of an elliptic orbit, it is possible to deduce
results extending to all such orbits, which can afterwards be
particularised for each ; so, by employing general symbols for
the six constants of spherical aberration, suggested by the
foregoing theory, it is possible to deduce general results re
specting the aberrational properties of optical instruments of
revolution, and to combine these afterwards with the pecu
liarities of each particular instrument by substituting the nu
merical values of its own particular constants. The author
proceeds to mention some of the general consequences to which
this view has conducted him, respecting the aberrational pro
perties of optical instruments of this kind.

   When a luminous point is placed on the axis of an object-
glass, or eye-glass, or other instrument of revolution, and when
its rays are not refracted or reflected so as to converge exactly
to, or diverge exactly from, one common focus, they become,
as it is well known, all tangents to one caustic surface of revo
lution,       itfhenyecaellssianrtye,rsebcet hitnhde
         and                                          tahxeis,insattrulemaesnt t.whenButhteiyf  are
                                                                                                the
{u1mroilnoonugsed,point be anywhere out of the axis, the arrange
ment of the final rays becomes less simple than before. They
are not now all tangents to the meridian of a surface of revolu
tion, nor do they all intersect the axis of the instrument ; they
become, by another known theorem, the tangents to two caustic
364'  THIRD REPORT -- 1833.

surfaces, and to two sets of caustic curves, and compose two
series of developable pencils, or ray surfaces ; so that each ray
of the final system may be considered as having, in general, two
foci, or points of intersection with other rays, indefinitely near.
The theorem here alluded to, namely, that of the general exist
ence of two foci for each ray of a system proceeding from any

surface according to any law, was first discovered by Malus.
Mr. Hamilton also obtained it independently, but later, in 1823.
It appears to be, as yet, but little known ; but it is, he thinks,
essential to a correct view of the arrangement of rays in space,
for which the analogy of rays in a plane seems quite inade
quate. Combining this theorem of the two foci with his view of
the characteristic function, and of the six constants of spherical
aberration, for the final system produced by oblique inci
dence on an instrument of revolution, the author has found
gthheaanvteinrgatlheecalocthwseoitusfpoocwiinntoofproainnecr,aipyeaxloceffpottchuisfso.rfintTwalhoesypisnrttienemrcvipadlaolbentrwoateyesinn,
the two foci of any other ray is proportional, very nearly, to the
product of the sines of its inclinations to the two principal rays ;
and the tangent planes of the two developable pencils, passing
through any variable ray, bisect (very nearly) the two pairs of
supplemental dihedrate angles formed by the two planes which

contain this variable ray and are parallel to the two principal
rays ; in such a manner that all the rays of any developable
pencil of one set have (very nearly) one common sum, and all the
rays of any developable pencil of the other set have (very
nearly) one common difference, of inclinations to the same two
principal rays, or axes of the final system. These latter axes

always intersect each other, and their plane is either the
diametral plane of the instrument (containing the luminous
point or focus of incident rays), or a plane perpendicular
to that diametral plane, according to the sign of a cer
tain quantity, which vanishes when the two axes happen to
coincide in one principal ray, round which the whole final

system has then a very perfect symmetry ; and, in general, the

angle of the two principal rays, whether in or out of the dia
metral plane of the instrument, is bisected (very nearly) by a
cceerntatinralinterarmyedoiaftetheraysysintemth,at           which may
                                                     plane,   the other  be called   the
                                                    because              final rays  are

disposed about it with a certain symmetry of arrangement,
less perfect than the symmetry about an axis of revolution, but
resembling that of the normals to an ellipsoid about one of its
three axes, when unequal ; and accordingly the author finds
that the final rays from an instrument of revolution (when the
TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                                865

incident rays are oblique) are very nearly normals to a portion of
such an ellipsoid, having the central ray for one of its three un
equal axes, and having the two principal rays for its two umbili
cal normals, at two out of the four points where the ellipsoid has
complete contact of       second order with an osculating sphere.
The centres of the   the   osculating spheres at these two points
                     two
are the two principal foci of the system; and the centres of the
two extreme osculating spheres at any other point of the ellipsoid
are the two foci of the corresponding ray, or the points at which
that ray touches the two caustic surfaces. These latter sur
faces are, in the present approximation, the surfaces of centres

of curvature of the ellipsoid : they have a curve of intersection
with each other, which contains the two principal foci; every
point upon the curve, except these  two, being the first         of
one ray and the second focus of                           focus
                                    another. A plane      may    be
drawn perpendicular to the central ray, and passing through
the two principal foci ; and this plane will cut the two caustic
surfaces in sections which compose a kind of little lozenge, con
sisting (very nearly) of two curvilinear equilateral triangles,
having the principal foci for two common corners : the quadra
ture of these curvilinear triangles, and of the other sections
of the caustic surfaces, depending on elliptic integrals. In all
the foregoing remarks, it is supposed, for greater generality,
that the aberrations do not vanish with the obliquity of the
incident rays ; but when the instrument is aplanatic for direct
incident rays, it is easy to apply the same theory of the charac
teristic function and the six radical constants of aberration,
and to determine, for this particular case, the components of
spherical aberration which arise from obliquity only.
This theory of the aberrations of oblique rays, for an optical
instrument of revolution, may admit of practical applications.
For the mathematical symmetry of arrangement of the final
rays about the central ray of their system, and the intensity of
the two principal foci, may perhaps affect our sight, and have
some appreciable influence on the practical performance of an
instrument ; but of this Mr. Hamilton speaks with diffidence,

Ifbecause experiments directed expressly to the question appear
to be required for its decision.    the mathematical properties
which he has determined by theory in the arrangement and
aberrations of a system, shall be found in practice to have
sensible influence on the phienomena of oblique vision, it   any
                                                             will
become necessary to alter some of the received rules for the
construction of telescopes and microscopes ; or, at least, it will

be possible to improve those rules by following the indications
                                    THIRD REPORT 1883.

of this theory. A new track seems to be opened thus to ma

thematical and practical opticians.
   The principle of the characteristic function, from which hare

been deduced the foregoing results, among others not yet pub
lished, respecting optical instruments of revolution, may be
applied to every part of mathematical and perhaps of physical
optics ; and an analogous function and method may be intro
duced in other sciences, especially in dynamical astronomy*.
But the author confines himself to mentioning the application
which he has made of the principle to the study of the laws of
extraordinary refraction in the crystals called biaxal. The
general laws of reflection and refraction, ordinary and extraor
dinary, at any point of any surface, are expressed by his
function as follows, when the normal to the reflecting or
refracting surface at the point of incidence is taken for the
axis of » :

                      ox b y

and in the   language of the  ifunthdeulantoorrmy althseloowrynetshseyofmparyopabe
enunciated   by saying, that
gation of a luminous wave, at any point of incidence on any
reflecting or refracting surface, be decomposed in any direction
parallel to this surface at this point, the component of normal
slowness is  not altered   by reflection   or refraction.   In the case
of ordinary   refraction,   this comes    to saying, that
                                                           if on the in

cident ray prolonged, and on the refracted ray, we measure
from the point of incidence lengths represented by the indices
of the first and second media, those lengths will have one
common projection on the refracting surface or on its tangent
plane ; which is a form for the law of Snellius. For extra
ordinary refraction, we must in general construct the normal
slowness of a wave by a variable length not always coinciding
with the ray ; but the two lengths thus substituted for the two
Ifsuccessive indices  tnhwoewillcwsryteisltlashel,aevkiefthpoelnaneloecc, ouomsrmooonfntihtseptraeonnjegdcetoniotf ntphlaoennlein,theie,f

refracting face of
it be curved.
which represents in length and direction the normal slowness
of a wave, for all possible directions of this slowness, we get for
ordinary media a sphere, but for extraordinary media (on
Fresnel's principles) a certain double surface, which is not the

   · See the Dublin University Review for October 1833. Mr. Hamilton has
since developed the dynamical application of his principle, in an essay On a
General Method in Dynamics, which has been presented to the Royal Society,
and ordered to appear in the Philosophical Transactions for 1S34.
                  TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                 S6T

same as Fresnel's curved wave-surface, propagated in all di
rections from a point, but is connected therewith by several
remarkable relations of reciprocity, and may be called the

surface of components, since its coordinates are themselves the
components of normal slowness of propagation. They are
oeqfutahle  to the partial differential coefficients   of       first order
             author's characteristic function V,           the   connected
                                                      and  are
by a partial differential equation of the form

                  /SV SV SVX

which may be regarded as the equation of the surface. And
the general equations of reflection or refraction (8.), when put
under the form

express that the corresponding points on the two surfaces of
components, before and after any reflection or refraction, or
dinary or extraordinary, are on one common ordinate to the
reflecting or refracting surface, or to its tangent plane ; which
gives a new and general construction for the direction of a
reflected or refracted wave, and therefore for that of a re

flected or refracted ray, simpler  Tinhumsa,nyif      cases than the con
struction proposed by Huygens.                        it were required to
determine by this new construction the direction and the un-
dulatory velocity of an extraordinary ray, refracted in Iceland
spar, being given the direction of the incident ray in air, we
should have to construct first the two successive surfaces of
components, which would be here a sphere for the air, and a
                  the Huygenian) for     the crystal, the common
spheroid    (not  being at the point of  incidence ; and then, after
centre of   both
determining the point of the hemispheroid within the crystal,
which is on the same ordinate to the refracting face as the
point where the incident ray prolonged meets its own interior
              we should only have to draw a tangent plane to
hemisphere,   at the point thus determined, and to let fall a per
the spheroid
pendicular on this plane from the point of incidence ; for this
perpendicular is, in length and direction, the radius vector of
the Huygenian spheroid, and therefore represents the undu-
latory velocity and the direction of the extraordinary ray. And
other more complicated cases may be treated in a similar
manner, either by using a construction of this kind, or by the
equivalent formulae derived from the characteristic function.
When the author proceeded to apply this general method to
368 THIRD REPORT-- 1833.

Fresnel's principles respecting biaxal crystals, he arrived at the
curious result that the surface of components, in such a crystal,
has not at every point a determined tangent plane, but that at
each of four cusps, opposite, two by two, it is touched by an
infinite number of such planes, or by a tangent cone; and

hence he immediately concluded, by his general method, that

if a ray in air fall so upon a biaxal crystal as to make the point
upon the air-sphere correspond (by the rule already explained)
to one of those cusps on the surface of components of normal
slowness in the crystal, his construction would give no unique
refracted ray, nor even a pair or other finite number of such
rays within the crystal, but an infinite number of refracted

rays, namely, all the perpendiculars which can be let fall from
the point of incidence on the tangent cone at the cusp. The
author saw also that these rays must terminate in some curve
of plane contact on Fresnel's double wave, in the whole extent
of which curve the wave must be touched by one plane, and
that there must be four such curves, which he afterwards found
to be circles ; a curious property of this wave, which Fresnel
himself had not noticed. But the most remarkable part of this
result was, the new and delicate experimental test which it

offered for Fresnel's principles, since the internal conical
refraction which it indicated, for certain cases of incidence
on a biaxal crystal, had not only not been hitherto observed,
                contrary to all former analogies of observation ; so
but   seemed      theoretical consequence of Fresnel's principles,
that
       if this
which he had not himself perceived, should be verified by
subsequent experiment, the principles would receive a new
                it
and striking confirmation ; and  if,on the contrary, after all

                                                                ;
                                                             a

                                                                      a
                                                                                    a
                                                                                           in
due care employed in experiments directed expressly to the
question, the small but finite conical dispersion in biaxal
crystals, which the author had thus theoretically concluded,
should not be found in fact to take place, the principles them
selves would require to be abandoned or modified. Professor
Lloyd was applied to by the author to undertake this expe
rimental inquiry. After some unsuccessful trials with crystals
of insufficient size and purity, he obtained fine piece of arra-
gonite from Mr. Dollond, and at length completely succeeded
exhibiting the phaenomenon which Mr. Hamilton had expected.
The rays of the internal cone emerged, as they ought, in cy
linder from the second face of the crystal and the size of this
nearly circular cylinder, though small, was decidedly perceptible,
so that with solar light threw on silver paper little luminous
ring, which seemed to remain the same at different distances
of the paper from the arragonite. Professor Lloyd describes
           TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                369

the appearance as very beautiful when he employed a lamp,
and received the emergent rays on a lens : he seemed to see
the two points of light, which the double refraction usually
produced, spread out on a sudden, when the critical incidence
was obtained, into a ring of gold viewed on a dark ground.

His account is contained (with Professor Hamilton's theoretical
investigation) in the First Part of the seventeenth volume of
tmheentTrwaanssaacltsioonspuobflisthheedRoiynalthIerisnhumAbceardsemoyf ;thaesLhoonrtdeornstaatned
Edinburgh Philosophical Magazine for the months of February
and March 1833.
From the connexion of the surface of components with the
wave-surface propagated from a point, the author saw that the
existence of four conoidal cusps on the one surface in Fresnel's
                                        oinf teforuser ctsiuocnh ofcuFsrpessneulp'soncirtchlee
theory   involved    the existence
other,  namely,
                   at the points of
and ellipse in the plane of the extreme axes of elasticity : and
thus he was led to expect an external conical refraction,
corresponding to the internal incidence of a cusp-ray when
emerging into air from a crystal with two axes. On this point
also he requested Professor Lloyd to undertake a series of ex

periments ; and on this point also (indeed, somewhat sooner
than on the other,) he obtained a complete verification. His
experimental determinations of the size and position of this
emergent cone, as of the former emergent cylinder, and of the
laws of polarization in each, for the same large piece of arra-
gonite, agreed with the theoretical results deduced from the
principles of Fresnel by the method of the Characteristic
Function.

   Although this method appears likely to be adopted by
analysts at some future time in the researches of theoretical
optics, the author does not pretend that its results cannot be
obtained in other ways ; and with respect to the two kinds of
conical refraction, in particular, Mr. MacCullagh (F.T.C.D.)
has published, in the London and Edinburgh Philosophical
Magazine for the months of August and September in the

present year, an elegant geometrical investigation, together
with some account of the progress of his thoughts upon the
subject. The surface which Professor Hamilton has called the
                                                        slowness of propagation,) and
stourfwahciechofhceomwapsonceonntds,uc(toefdnosrommael  years ago, as constructing a

foufndhaismeCnhtaarlaecqtuearitsiotinc  between the partial differential coefficients
                                         Function, occurred to Mr. MacCullagh
also, as he has informed the author, independently from consi
derations of a geometrical kind. The same important surface

1833.                                   2b
370                             THIRD REPORT 1833.

presented itself to M. Cauchy, likewise, in his dynamical re
searches respecting a system of attracting or repelling points.

On Conical      Refraction. By the Rev. H.          Lloyd,    Professor
                                                             University
  of Natural    and Experimental Philosophy          in the

    of Dublin.

    Professor Lloyd gave a brief account of the experiments by
which he established the existence of conical refraction in
biaxal crystals, in conformity with the theoretical anticipations
of Professor Hamilton.
    The substance employed in these experiments was arrago-
nite, which was selected chiefly on account of the magnitude
of its biaxal energy. The specimen was one of remarkable
purity, procured by Mr. Dollond. Its thickness was '49 of an
inch, and its parallel faces were perpendicular to the line
bisecting the optic axes, being cleavage planes of the crystal.
   The first case of conical refraction examined by the author
was that called by Professsor Hamilton external conical re

fraction. It was expected to take place when a single ray
passes within the crystal in the direction of the line connecting
two opposite cusps on the wave-surface. When this is the
case, Professor Hamilton has shown that there should be a
cone of rays without, the magnitude of which will depend on
the biaxal energy of the crystal. In the case of arragonite, the
angle of the cone, calculated from the elements of the crystal
                                M. Rudberg, amounts to 3° very nearly.
as  Adettehrimn inmedetablliyc    plate, perforated with a minute aperture,

was placed on each face of the crystal, and these were adjusted
in such a manner that the line connecting the apertures should
coincide nearly with one of the optic axes. The flame of a
lamp was then brought near the first surface of the crystal,
and in such a position that the central part of the beam con
verging to the aperture should have an incidence of between
15° and 16°. When the adjustment was completed, there
appeared, on looking through the aperture on the second sur
face, a brilliant luminous circle with a small dark space around
its centre ; and in this central dark space were two bright
points, separated by a well defined dark line. When the plate
on the second surface was slightly shifted, so that the line
connecting the two apertures no longer coincided accurately
with the line joining the cusps on the wave-surface, the pheno
mena rapidly changed, and ultimately resolved themselves into
the two pencils into which a single ray is divided under ordi

nary circumstances.
    TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                              371

   The incident converging cone was sometimes formed by a
lens of short focus, placed at the distance of its focal length
from the surface. In this case the lamp was removed to a con
siderable distance, and the plate on the first surface dispensed
with. The same experiment was repeated with the sun's light,
instead of that of a lamp, and the emergent cone of rays thus
formed was of sufficient intensity to be reflected from a screen
at some distance. In this manner the section of the cone was

observed at various distances from its summit.

    When these phaenomena were examined in detail, and com
pared with the results of theory, they appeared to differ in two
important particulars. In the first place, the observed cone
was very nearly a solid cone of rays, while that of theory was
but a conical surface. Secondly, the two cones differed widely
in magnitude, the angle of the experimental cone being nearly
double of that of the theoretical one. This discordance between
the results of experiment and those of theory, the author con
ceived to arise from the rays which were inclined to the optic
axis at small angles, and which were transmitted through the
aperture on the second surface in consequence of its sensible
magnitude. To examine this point he proceeded in the next
place to try the effects of apertures of various dimensions.
The effects of these variations in the resulting phaenomena cor
responded exactly with his preconceived views. The rays
which in the first experiments filled the whole of the conical
space, parted in the centre, when the aperture was much di
minished ; and the section of the cone, instead of a complete
luminous circle, was reduced to a luminous annulus, whose

breadth diminished with the aperture. Simple theoretical con
siderations showed that the angle of the true cone in this case
must be, very nearly, half the sum of the angles of the observed
interior and exterior cones ; and when this correction was ap

plied to the measurements, the resulting angle agreed, as nearly
    could be expected, with that   deduced from
as                                 phaenomenon   theory.
    A remarkable variation of the                was obtained
                                                               by
substituting a narrow linear aperture for the small circular one,
in the plate next the lamp in the first-mentioned mode of per
forming the experiment; and by adjusting it so that the plane
passing through it and the aperture on the second surface
should coincide with the plane of the optic axes. In this case,

according to the received theory, all the rays transmitted
through the two apertures should be refracted doubly in the
plane of the optic axes, so that no part of the line should ap
pear enlarged in breadth
the second surface. But   on   looking through the aperture on
                               Professor Hamilton's conclusion
                           if  2b£
372 THIRD REPORT-- 1833.

be physically exact, the ray which proceeds in the direction of
the line joining two opposite cusps on the wave-surface should
be refracted in every plane. This was accordingly found to be
the case. In the neighbourhood of each of the optic axes the
luminous line swelled out on either side of the plane of the
axes in an oval curve. This curve is the conchoid of Nico-
medes, whose asymptot is the line on the first surface ; and
its variations of form, as the plane passing through the two
apertures deviated from the plane of the optic axes, were highly
curious and remarkable.

   Examining the state of polarization of the rays composing
the emergent cone, Mr. Lloyd discovered that they observed
the following law, namely, that "the angle between the planes
of polarization of any two rays of the cone is half the angle
contained by the planes passing through the rays themselves
and its axis." This law, it is easy to show, is in perfect ac
cordance with theory.

   Internal conical refraction should take place, according to
Professor Hamilton, when a single ray has been incident ex
ternally upon a biaxal crystal in such a manner that one of the
refracted rays may coincide with an optic axis. The ray, in
this case, ought to be divided into a cone of rays within the
crystal, the angle of which in the case of arragonite is 1° 55'.
The rays forming this cone will be refracted at the second sur
face of the crystal in directions parallel to the ray incident on
the first ; so that they will form a small cylinder of rays in air,
whose base is the section of the cone formed by the surface of

emergence.

   The minuteness of this phenomenon, and the perfect accu
racy required in the incidence, render it much more difficult of

detection than the former. A very fine ray of light proceeding

from a distant lamp was suffered to fall upon the crystal, and
the position of the latter altered with extreme slowness, so as
to change the incidence very gradually. When the required
position was attained, the two rays suddenly spread into a con
tinuous circle, whose diameter was apparently equal to their
former distance. The same experiment was repeated with the
sun's light, and the emergent cylinder received on a small
screen of paper at various distances from the crystal. No sen
sible enlargement of the section was visible on increasing the
distance.

   The magnitude of the angle of the cone of rays within the
crystal was ascertained experimentally, and agreed within very
narrow limits with that deduced from theory. The rays com
posing the cone were all polarized in different planes, and the
                TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.             373

law connecting the planes of polarization was the same as that
already found in the case of external conical refraction*.

On the Absorption   of Light by  coloured  Media, viewed  in con
   nexion with the               Theory.
                    undulatory              By Sir John   F. W.
Herschel, F.R.S.

The absorption of light by coloured media having been of
late regarded as offering peculiar difficulties when attempted
to be reconciled with the undulatory theory, the object of this
paper is to point out considerations which appear capable of
reconciling most of the phaenomena with that theory, at least
in so far as to show that they involve nothing contrary to sound

dynamical principles and obvious analogies when regarded as
particular cases of the general doctrine of undulatory motion.
   The extinction of light in general is first considered. In the

corpuscular hypothesis, light, to be extinguished, must be anni
hilated, or transformed either into caloric or some other form
of matter. On the undulatory hypothesis, the extinction of
light resolves  itself into
ing dynamical     question,  th"eWmhoarte  general and  highly interest
                                                        Motion?" This
                                           becomes of

question is therefore considered, and by tracing the progress
of an undulation through a body imperfectly elastic or a system
of bodies placed in communication, it is shown that a continual
subdivision of the original undulation, and a perpetual internal
reflection of the subdivided portions, will speedily have the
effect of agitating every molecule of the system at one and the
same instant, with vibratory motions, in every possible phase
and direction. The dynamical state of a molecule so agitated
is identical with a state of perfect rest, so that the general fact
of the extinction or absorption of light within a medium imper
fectly transparent is so far from being repugnant to dynamical
principles, that it is one of their immediate and most natural
consequences ; imperfect transparency, in this view of the sub
ject, consisting in the juxtaposition of parts unequally elastic,
or of portions of the etherial medium unequally loaded, or re
strained from their natural aptitude to motion by the gross par
ticles of material bodies with which they are connected.
This connexion of the etherial particles with the grosser
molecules which constitute our solids, liquids, and gases, may
be considered as giving rise to compound vibrating systems,
each of which, it is easy to conceive, may have a greater apti-

  · A fall account of these experiments is given in a memoir read before the

Royal Irish Academy, on the 28th January 1833, and ordered to be pub
lished in the 17th volume of its Transactions.
374 THIRD REPORT -- 1833.

tude to propagate vibrations of some determinate degree of
frequency, than of a greater or less degree, as being in unison,
or an                  to unison,     with   that in which           they themselves
would  approach                    alone,   and agitated by           an external im
        vibrate      if existing
pulse. But this greater disposition to propagate some vibra
tions does not render them incapable of transmitting others.
In illustration of this position Sir John Herschel exhibited an
experiment where the column of air in a closed pipe, being main
tained in a state of forced vibration by two tuning-forks held
over differing materially in pitch, yielded at the same instantit,
both their sounds, being actually out of unison with itself, andit
uttering distinct beats*. It on this principle offorced vibrais
tions that, according to the view here taken of the subject, the
                                   is

                                          it

                                                       a
phaenomena of absorption, or, as should rather be called, of
obstructed transmission, depend. The degree of obstruction
which an undulation experiences from medium will be in pro
portion to the number and extent of its subdivisions, in travers
ing the molecular systems of which that medium consists, and
the latter will be greater the more completely out of unison
those systems happen to be with the vibrations thus forced

through them. To assign the law of degradation may be dif
ficult, but            easy to satisfy ourselves that may depend on
                                                           it
                                                                  in
relations quite sufficiently varied and different differently

constituted molecules, to give rise to all the apparently capri
cious phenomena of absorptionf.

OnnethxeionDiwspitehrsiitvseAcPhorowmerastisomf.theByMethdeiaReovf.  the Eye, in con
                                                                     Baden Powell,
M.A., F.R.S., Sav. Prof, of Geometry, Oxford.

The principal experimental results bearing on the question
of the achromatism of the eye are as follows
                                            if

                                                 a

                                                                  :
At distances less than the limit of distinct vision the image
of luminous point coloured or
t                      is                ;                 small opake object be
   a                       a is
interposed, its shadow coloured.

   To near-sighted eyes, small bright object on dark ground
                                                           is
                                                                        a
appears edged with colour, and the effect rendered more con
spicuous by using a blue glass, which allows the extreme rays
of the spectrum to pass, and stops or weakens the middle rays.

   · This experiment, which was published by Sir John Herschel in his Essay on
Sound, was then supposed by him to be new. It appears, however, to have been
            m"adOen  by Mr. Wheatstone.                     very ingenious paper by that
previously            the Resonance of        See          of Air," Quarterly Journal
gentleman,                               Columns
Science, N.S. No. 5.               is                                                   of
                                                        a
    The paper, of which the above an abstract, has since been communicated to
the London and Edinburgh Philosophical Magazine and Journal, vol. iii. p. 401.
                       TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.  375

   Thus, when from any cause the rays do not converge accu
rately upon the retina, the dispersion is sensible.

   To some eyes, however, it is scarcely appreciable, and in all
cases is but small.

   So long as direct centrical pencils have their mean rays
converging accurately upon the retina, no colours are percepti
ble.
When the incident rays are partially intercepted by an
opake body, the image is formed by eccentrical pencils, and
the colours become very conspicuous.
   Fraunhofer admitted the different prismatic rays successively
into a telescope, and found it necessary, in passing from the
red to the violet ray, to adjust both the eye-glass to the object-
glass, and the eye-glass to the micrometer-wire, in order to see
the wire distinctly in the different sorts of light.

   The whole displacement must be the sum of the chromatic
aberrations of the object-glass, the eye-glass, and the eye.

   Fraunhofer does not notice the first; says that the second
is allowed for; and takes the residuum as the dispersion of
the eye.
   He elsewhere states that the telescope was not perfectly

achromatic ; and as the data are not stated, we cannot regard
the inference as conclusive, and Fraunhofer admits that it is

not precise.
The author of this paper has tried similar experiments, but
found the displacement so small that he is quite in doubt whe
tohfetrheanylenwseass  requisite : and considering that the aberrations
                       may be uncertain to a larger amount than the
quantity sought, it cannot be satisfactorily deduced by this

method.
The theories which have been proposed are by no means
satisfactory.
   D'Alembert conceives that the agitation (^branlement) occa
sioned on any one point of the retina, extends itself to the
neighbouring points, and thus each point is influenced by the
sum of the effects due to all the coloured rays at once, and

simple vision results.
Euler's explanation is grounded on hypothetical assumptions

as to the dispersive powers.

   This is remarked by Dr. Maskelyne, who by calculation
finds the aberration so small as to be insensible. He, however,
assumes the dispersions only by analogy from the proportions
assigned by Newton.
   Dr. Wells leaves it as a point yet to be explained.
   Mr. Coddington, admitting a considerable difficulty in the
376                 THIRD REPORT 1833.

subject, suggests that a compensation may take place between
the refractions at the cornea and the crystalline.

Several writers observe, that the sensible achromatism is
difficult to understand, because the refractions are all performed

one way.
With a view to the theory, it is to be observed that although
                 powers of the several   media of
the refractive                                      the eye have
been accurately    determined, and the  dispersive
                                                    indices of the
aqueous and vitreous humours, yet no observations of the se
paration of the different prismatic rays in these media have
been given, and none for the dispersion of the crystalline lens.
The author has accordingly tried such experiments by form
ing portions of these media (from the eye of an ox) into prisms
between glass plates, and measuring the proportions, both of
the whole extent, and of the several parts, of the spectra which

they produced.
   In the vitreous humour this was easily done, as the whole
spectrum was very distinct, and the principal lines well defined.

With the crystalline it was extremely difficult to make the ob

servations satisfactorily, and the results are less certain.
   The measurement was made micrometrically by the rotation

in its own plane of a plate-glass prism of very small angle, so
as to give an image of the spectrum sensibly unaltered, but
deviated in position, and any definite part of this image could
be brought by rotation into coincidence with any part of the
fixed image: the angular separation of the different parts or
lines of the spectrum could be thus readily deduced from the
arc of rotation observed.
   For comparison of the prismatic dispersion of the vitreous
and crystalline, the mean results of several sets of observations
were as follows:

Angle of the prism, 75°.    Angular separation of the extreme red form.

                                                                   _ . ..,

                              The       Boundary       Extreme
                             mean       of green       violet.
                            yellow.     and blue.
Crystalline lens :
     Central portion . .        21'. . 0° 4& . . 1° 22'
     Outer portion . . .    0°

Vitreous humour             0   21 . . 0 38 . . 1 25

                            0   15 . . 0 31 . . 1      9
As far as such determinations
                                can be relied on, it hence ap

pears :
1st, That the dispersion of the several portions of the cry
stalline are nearly equal.              

2ndly, That the separation of the different rays in the cry
stalline is greater than in the vitreous humour ; but
               TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                           377

3rdly, That they are as nearly as possible in the same ratio.
In theory, the principles on which achromatism might be
produced in a combination similar to the eye are easily under
stood by reference to    the common formula           for the dispersion
                                                       absolute indices,
of a single lens. Let   m, m,,m,, &c, be the
relative to vacuum, of the medium of the lens, for the mean,
red, violet, &c, rays.
The common formula applies to the focus for parallel rays
formed in vacuo. Let us now suppose it formed in some other
                                                      are mn mT,, mt/, &c,
medium, whose absolute    indices  (as before)
                          length                      for mean rays in this
and/ the principal focal           of the lens
medium. Then, instead of the common formula for the chro

matic aberration (a), we shall have the analogous one

    Here the numerator may be = 0, or the aberration be de
stroyed, whatever be the absolute values of the indices, pro

vided only the indices of corresponding rays are in the same

ratio in the two media.
   By a construction of the course of the rays it will be easily

seen, that with certain dispersive powers and curvature the
rays will reunite at given distances.

   This appears to be the same principle as that on which Sir
David Brewster proposed an achromatic microscope. {Phil.
Instruments, p. 408.)

On  the Power  of  Glass  Poof tAtentri,mJounny.  to  reflect  Light.  By

                      R.

   In an abstract of a paper which is published in the preceding
volume of these Reports, Mr. Potter gave the results he had
obtained of the reflective power of diamond for light, by the
method of photometry by comparison. Since then he had
experimented with a large larke diamond belonging to Sir
David Brewster, and obtained results nearly identical. He

found this latter diamond to reflect at 2° to 3° incidence

equally with crown-glass at 64° incidence, from which the va
rious trials differed very little.

   The ordinary surfaces on diamond being too small and the

planes not sufficiently true to determine the reflective power at
high incidences, he had recourse to glass of antimony, a sub

stance of very high refractive power, to which he succeeded
378 THIRD REPORT -- 1833.

in giving a plane surface and high polish. Comparing such
a surface with crown-glass, he obtained measures which
enabled him to calculate the light reflected for all requisite
incidences, from the known reflective power of crown-glass.
These show that glass of antimony follows the same law in the
reflection of light as low refracting substances, and that the
number of rays reflected of every 100 incident may be calcu

lated from the same formula, namely, y = a x                         1^~, where

y is the number of rays reflected of every 100, x the sine of
incidence to radius (r), as 100 ; a, b, and c being constants,
and having the following values for this substance, a=7-4,
b = 1 '25, and c = 9. The maximum polarizing angle was
found to be about 65°, so that the refractive index of the
specimen would be about 2-1 to 2'2. The undulatory formula

-\,/ --, by using this value of jx, shows that according to

the received principles of that theory, the reflection of glass of
antimony at a perpendicular incidence should have been about
13-33 rays of every 100 incident, whilst experiment shows that
only 8 '20 such rays are really reflected.

On a  Phcenomenon in the        BInyterIfte. rPenoctetero, f  Light  hitherto  un-
                    described.                                Jun.

    When the image of a luminous point is viewed in a Newtonian
microscope, of which the mirror is of a spherical figure, and
the aperture large in proportion to the radius of the sphere,
there is a large circle of aberration visible. This appearance
is best studied when the point, where the rays reflected near
the edge of the mirror cross the axis, is in the focus of the eye
glass. The circle of aberration then appears to be composed
of dark and bright rings, which are broad and distinct near
the edge, but from the mixture of colours become soon lost
in white light.

   To produce the luminous point, Mr. Potter used a small

mercurial globule, attached by some glutinous matter on a slender
wire. When the image of the sun given by this globule is
viewed in the microscope, the appearance of the rings formed

by interference is one of the most beautiful of this class of
phamomena. It may be seen by candlelight, but to much less
advantage. Mr. Potter states, that on studying the theory of
this case of interference he found that, according to the undu

latory theory, the outer ring should be brightest on its outside
edge, whilst, according to the theory of interference which he
                   TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                               379

has proposed, it should shade away gradually into darkness on
this outside edge ; and he adds that the phaenomenon corresponds
exactly to this latter deduction.

Explanation        oBf ytheSiPrriJnochinpleF.anWd.  Construction  Fo.fRt.hSe.  Actino-
           meter.
                                                     Herschel,

  This is an instrument, invented by Sir John F. W. Herschel,
for measuring at any instant the direct heating power of the

solar rays.

   In the ordinary methods of estimating the sun's calorific
effect, the heating power of the sun is put in equilibrium with
the cooling influence of external causes, and the elevation of

temperature in the body (usually a thermometer,) thus heated,

so as to maintain the equilibrium, is noted and set down as a
measure of the sun's calorific effect. But the principle of such
a proceeding is obviously faulty : the temperature maintained
is just as properly a measure of the cooling as of the heating
influences, and, in fact, is a measure neither of one nor of the
other. This objection applies to all statical measurements of
dynamical effects, taking the word generally to mean cases
where power is transformed into its immediate effect, and ex
hausted by such transformation. The actinometer is intended
to afford a dynamical measure of the solar radiation, i. e. one

in which the actual quantity of heat received per second or in
a given infinitely small time is the object of measurement, upon
a given surface directly exposed to the sun. The instrument
itself is nothing more than a very large cylindrical thermometer-
bulb with a scale greatly enlarged, so as to render the smallest
possible increase of temperature distinctly measurable. In
consequence, the scale is not divided into degrees, but into ar
bitrary equal parts ; and as a very slight elevation of tempe
rature suffices to carry the liquid up the whole column, the
bulb itself is furnished with a screw, by withdrawing which its
capacity may be enlarged, and the power of reading off restored.
The bulb is of colourless glass, and is filled with an intensely
blue liquid. Into the interior of this the calorific rays pene
trate, and are absorbed at some sensible depth within the bulb,
so that the liquid is heated from within, and the whole of the
calorific rays     (not stopped  by the glass)       go   to dilate  the        con
tents, and are     extinguished  in producing       that   effect.             make
                                                                     To
an observation with the actinometer, the instrument must be
freely exposed in the shade for one minute, and the variation
of the reading noted ; then freely exposed to sunshine for the

same time, and the variation again noted ; and lastly, once more
380  THIRD REPORT-- 1833.

in the shade. The mean of the two variations in the shade

being subducted from the variation in the sun, the excess gives
the dilatation per minute due to the sun's rays, the quantity sub
ducted being the effect of the other causes in action at the time.
   Many years' experience and repeated trial of the instrument

under a great variety of circumstances have demonstrated the
complete dependence which may be placed on its indications, as

well as its extreme sensibility. It has been used by its inventor,
Sir John Herschel, on the Puy de Dome ; in an imperfect state
also on Etna by him, and since by Mr. Lunn, in its improved
form, on the same volcano ; and by M. Nicollet and Professor
Forbes on the Alps in Switzerland. In a series of experiments
on the absorptive powers of glasses on heat, and on the reflec
tive powers of metallic and other polished surfaces, as well as
for the purpose of ascertaining the rate of increase and dimi
nution of solar radiation throughout the day, from sunrise to
sunset, it has been found of great utility. In the latter inquiry,
the increase or diminution of altitude of the sun near the ho

rizon is marked by the actinometer nearly as well as by actual
measurement with a sextant*.
                              . i|i,h,.-. - ,s

Sir John F. W. Herschel also communicated some results
obtained by Professor Forbes on the diminution of the intensity
of the solar rays in traversing the atmosphere by means of
the actinometer. He pointed out by direct comparison with
two instruments the degree of dependence to be placed on these
results, which, from experiments made by Professor Forbes at
the observatory of Paris, seem to indicate not more than                  of

the whole effect of radiation as the probable error under fa
vourable circumstances. But the point particularly deserving
of attention, and upon which observations strictly comparative
have now been made for the first time, is the numerical estimate
of the loss of intensity suffered by the radiant heat of the sun
in passing through a definite thickness of the atmosphere. Out
of twenty series, each consisting of several (often many) indi
vidual comparisons made by Professor Forbes, with the assist
ance of M. Kamtz, of Halle, at the top and bottom of the
Faulhorn, an elevated mountain of the Bernese Oberland, and
under favourable circumstances, not one failed to indicate the
diminution of heat alluded to. The difference of height at the
different stations at which simultaneous observations were made,
varied from 5000 to near 7000 English feet, and these obser-

   · The actinometer, as used by Sir John Herschel, is made and     sold  by
Mr. Robinson, optician, Devonshire-street, Portland-place, London.
         TRANSACTIONS OP THE SECTIONS.                                     381

vations were made on different days and at different hours of
the same day. Professor Forbes has not yet finally reduced
his observations ; but from the approximate numbers communi
cated by Sir John Herschel to the Meeting, it appears that even
in the                                      which alone these experiments were
made,)  ctlehaerefostrceweoatfhesor la(rin  radiation is diminished by about one
fifth in passing through a column of 6000 feet of the purest
air.

Account  Moef lsloomnei.  recent Experiments on Radiant Heat.              By
                             Communicated by Professor Forbes.
     M.

The following truths at which M. Melloni has arrived are of
capital importance. The quantity of calorific rays which tra
verse a screen, derived from sources of high or low tempera
ture, is proportional     to  that              temperature       ; but the difference
constantly diminishes     as  the                                  the screen becomes
                                                thickness of
less, till at last, with excessively thin lamince of mica, it is insen
sible. This remarkable result proves that the resistance to
passage which affects the transmission of heat depending on
the temperature of its source, is not exerted at the surface, but
in the interior of the mass.
The extension of this observation to the solar rays gives the
following result. M. Melloni operated with various thicknesses
of sulphate of lime, water, and acids. He found that the quan
tity of heat intercepted by increasing the thickness              of the trans
parent medium is greater for the less refrangible                 than for the
more refrangible rays ; that is, that while for example an
evanescent pellicle of mica would permit as much per cent, of
tvhioelehteartaya,cciofmtphaenythinicgkntehses                             it as of the
                                                red  ray to pass  through  larger per
                                                 be   increased,  a much
centage of the former will be stopped than of the latter; whence
the author concluded that the refrangibility of a heating ray is
coordinate with, and a measure of, its intensity. Thus, a plate
of glass 2mm in thickness stops, out of 100 incident rays of heat,
45 when they proceed from a lighted candle, 70 from a mass of
copper at 950° Cent., 92 from a vessel of boiling mercury, and
100 from a vessel of boiling water.
      Hence the impossibility, as he observes, by the use of lenses
of glass and suchlike materials of concentrating heat of low
temperature. This admits, however, of one most important
exception, the discovery of which forms an epoch in the history
of the science of heat. In a previous memoir, M. Melloni had
compared the transmissive powers of a great number of sub
stances. For uncrystallized compounds and fluids, he found
382 THIRD REPORT -- 1833.

the ratio of transmission for the heat of a lamp to be propor
tional to their refractive powers ; but in crystallized solids the
strangest anomalies appeared. The most remarkable of these
was, that the transmissive power of rock-salt for heat was six or
eight times greater than that of an equal thickness of alum,
which had almost the same transparence and refractive powers.
But the extraordinary property discovered by M. Melloni in

rock-salt is this, that it is equally transparent for heat of all
temperatures or of all degrees of refrangibility ; that the heat
of the hand loses as little in passing through a given thickness
of as the same quantity of solar or any other kind of heat.
it,
                     it

                                                                                                                             1
                                                                                                                                                       ;
This singular fact places rock-salt in a still more important posi
tion in relation to heat than the discovery of Sir David Brewster
pharosApaoplrrlteaiatoednysofoprlfaohcceekda-ts,alrtaind7mirametgin(a-g2rd8friotnom.)liigrnehdtth.-hicoktneirsosn,trfaronsmmitthse
                                                                                                                                    equal
                                                                                                                                    flame
of oil or alcohol, boiling water, and water even below 20° Fahr.
and in all these cases the transmission was 92 per 100 of the in

cident rays. A piece about an inch in thickness was equally
constant in the ratio of transmission.
To all who have been in the slightest degree occupied with
the study of radiant heat, the value of this property will at once
be apparent.  It gives the means of making experiments
hitherto physically impossible. The more delicate of M. Mel-
loni's experiments are made with the thermo-multiplier but
many are capable of repetition by common instruments. The       a;
different transmissibility of alum and salt, for example, may be
shown with the rudest apparatus. By means of a common three-
sided prism, formed of rock-salt, M. Melloni can refract
cil of heat derived from boiling water.                                                                                             pen

The following ?       an abstract of the later discoveries of
M. Melloni, communicated by him to Professor Forbes, in
order to be laid before the Association.is
The colouring matter of glass has been proved to diminish its
power of transmitting heat. The question is, Does this abIt
sorptive force stop all the radiant heat, except that having a
definite degree of refrangibility,  in the same way as
the rays of light                       is                      acts on
                                                it
                                                      is

                                                            it
The character of colour, which always accompanies and
indicates the refrangibility of light,    wanting in regard to
heat; and the operation of measuring the  intensity of an
emergent pencil of the latter would be,
extremely difficult.                          easy to see,
of heat to traverse    has formerly been shown that the power
                      diaphanous bodies diminishes with the
           TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                                       383

refrangibility of the heat. From this we derive almost as easy
a mean for estimating the refrangibility of a degree of heat as
in the corresponding case of light. M. Melloni took a clear
glass, and coloured glasses of various tints of the spectrum, and
adapted each glass to the opening in a screen, through which
rays fell from a lamp upon the sensible part of the thermo-
multiplier. The distance of the lamp was varied till, with each
glass successively, a deviation of 40° was produced in the index-
needle of the galvanometer. In each case the rays transmitted
by the glass were then caused to traverse a plate of sulphate of
lime. The needle always indicated a smaller thermal effect
than before, and its new position was the same for the white,
violet, indigo, blue, yellow, orange, and red glasses ; only in
the green, instead of the angular deviation being reduced
from 40° to 18°, as in the former cases, the needle stood at from
7° to 10°. When alum was substituted for sulphate of lime,
the deviation for green glass was from 1° to 10,6, whilst for all
the others it was 8°. Hence we conclude that red, orange,
yellow, blue, indigo, and violet, as well as clear glasses, pro
duced no elective action on heat, since the rays issuing from all
these traverse an interposed plate with equal facility, which
would not be the case were they differently refrangible. Green

glass, on the other hand, transmits rays easier stopped than
any of the others ; and therefore, from what has been already
said, admits the passage of the least refrangible rays, whilst it
                              which    we know to traverse the sul
stops the  more refrangible,  easily.
           lime or alum most              To confirm this deduction
phate of
was the object of a second series of experiments, since the
transmission of the first and the stoppage of the second ought
to be made manifest.
The author took an Argand lamp, and a spiral of platinum
wire placed over a lamp of alcohol, which, it is easy to show,
had a much lower temperature, and therefore its heat had a
lower degree of refrangibility than that of the Argand burner.
The differences of the quantity of heat from these two sources,
transmitted by all the kinds of glass except the green, showed
that the transmitted rays, in the case of incandescent platinum,
                      hInalfthtehocsaesetraonfsgmreitetend glawshseens,  the
were almost exactly                                                       the  source was
an Argand burner.                                                               difference
was little or nothing. Hence the conclusion that, as was antici
pated, the green glass was more transparent for the rays of
small refrangibility than for those of greater refrangibility (or

temperature).
   Another experiment was performed with the same object,
and with similar results.
384 THIRD REPORT-- 1833.

   Since the rays which have been transmitted by citric acid and
some other substances are those only of greatest refrangibility,

these have, relatively to most substances, a great penetrating
power. In the remarkable case of green glass, where rays of
a low degree of refrangibility are most easily transmitted, the
reverse should be the case. Accordingly, out of 100 parts of
heat transmitted by citric acid, white-, violet-, red-, orange-, yel
low-, blue-, and indigo-coloured glass transmitted various quan
tities of heat, varying from 89 to 28 parts ; whilst two specimens
of green glass only transmitted 6 and 2 parts. What is most re
markable is, that while for all the glasses but green the trans-
missive power is three times greater than when the heat of in
candescent platinum was directly incident upon them, the effect
with that particular glass descended from 23 or 24 per cent,
nearly to 0. The reason is obvious ; for the whole of the rays
of low refrangibility emitted by the platinum, and for which

alone the green glass was transparent, had been stopped by the

interposition of the plate of citric acid, which had, as it were,
sifted it free from these rays.
   Hence M. Melloni concludes
which has coloration for heat,       tihfatwegremenay  glass  is the only kind
                                                        use   the expression ;
the others acting upon it only as a more or less transparent
glass of uniform tint does upon light.

On Thermo-Electricity. By John Prideaux.

  In examining the    theory  of     Thermo-electricity,        Mr. Prideaux
satisfied himself --
1. That thermo-electricity is conveyed through long wires
with the same promptitude as common or voltaic electricity ;
and that it  does not    c:o--ntain  caloric as an element,
from those   principles                                         differently

2. That bringing two heated wires into contact in the bulb
of a large air thermometer, so as to generate a thermo-electric
current there, does not accelerate the cooling of the wires, and
thus that caloric is not consumed in its production ; nor does a
thermo-electric   current become                                caloric is
dered latent, as  in the fusion of   ademveeltoapl e:d--  when              ren

   3. That making the surfaces of a thermo-electric pair iden
tical, by tinning them all over before contact, does not impair
their powers (but rather the                   ; and that large plates of
copper and tin, or tin plate,        reverse)
                                      heated   together, separated from

metallic contact only by fine gauze, or a few threads spread over
the surface, will not produce the slightest deviation of the
needle, although metallic communication being made between
              TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                         385

them by means only of a slip of tinfoil, immediately throws off
the needle 25° ; which experiments, he conceives,
be reconciled with M. Becquerel's views respecting                  racdainathioanr:d--ly
                     de C/iim.,   Aaolluctirc1u8m29s.t)ances,
(Ann. de Phys. et    is, under                                      a better con
   4. That copper
ductor both of heat and electricity than iron ; wherefore the
electro-positive quality of iron to copper cannot be due to supe
riority of conduction ; and, by analogy, conduction should not

generally be the     p:o--sitive  principle in this particular develop
ment of electricity
5. That iron, antimony, and zinc become positive by heating;
that is, a bar of either of these metals hot is positive to a bar of

the same metal cold ; a quality which he denominates thermo

positive.
   That platinum, silver, copper, lead, tin, bismuth, become
negative by heating ; that is, a hot bar is negative to a bar of the
same metal cold, which he calls thermo-negative ; and thus the
metals are resolved into two thermo-electric classes.
That the thermo-positive quality is possessed by the above-
named three metals in the following order :
              Antimonv,T
                                  nearliy equali,
              " J-Iron,
              Zinc.
That the thermo-negative order is as follows :
              Bismuth,

              Silver,

              Platinum,

              Copper,
              Tin,

              Lead.
And that the order of thermo-electric reaction seems due to
the idio-positive or negative quality, compounded with that of
conduction, taking conduction directly in the thermo-negative
class, inversely in the thermo-positive. That is to say, anti
mony and iron are not very different in thermo-positive power ;
but antimony is the worse conductor, and takes the lead.
Iron and zinc differ little in conducting power ; but iron is
the stronger thermo-electric, and takes the lead.
In the thermo-negative class bismuth is the worst conductor,
and strongest thermo-negative, and therefore takes the lowest

place.
Silver is a better conductor, but stronger thermo-negative,
than copper. The one quality should raise the other lower it,
        is

                            ;

                                                               it,
in the table, and accordingly the difference between those two
metals small  and Mr. Pr2idceaux frequently finds copper
     1833.
38G THIRD REPORT 1833.

wires + to silver, though the latter generally stands highest in
the tables. Platinum is a worse conductor, and a stronger
thermo-negative, than copper: both properties cooperate to
lower it in the table, and it falls considerably.

    Platinum conducts a little better than tin, but is much more
thermo-negative. The latter quality being predominant, tin
stands above platinum in the thermo-electric table.

   Lead conducts worse than either of those metals, but has
much less thermo-negative quality ; hence they both range
below it in thermo-electric reaction.

   Zinc has a peculiarity deserving the notice of experimenters

on this subject:

          Above 250° it is thermo-positive.
          Below 200° it is thermo-negative.

   And two bars-- one heated to about 230°, the other at the
atmospheric temperature (say 60°) -- have no reaction on the
needle ; that is, there is between 200° and 250° a neutral point.
The investigation of this thermo-electric change, at such ma
nageable temperatures, seems to offer an opening to new and
advanced ground. Zinc becomes ductile at about 250°.
6. That the currents in masses of bismuth cannot be easily

drawn out by better     conductors, and  do not seem analogous       to
currents in the same    or other metals
                                         acting in pairs :--
7. That foreign metals brought into contact with a homoge
neous circuit, near a heated point, enter into the thermo-electric
communication, and determine a current conformably to their

position in the table.

On  some  newWP.hcSennoomwenHaarorfis,EleFc.tRri.cSa.l  Attraction.  By
                                                        $c.

   The author exhibited and explained to the Section the con
struction and use of some new electrical instruments, by which
he has been enabled to investigate more rigorously than has
been hitherto done the phaenomena of electrical attraction.
These instruments consist of an electroscope, an electrometer,
a unit of measure, and an adaptation of the common balance to
the measurement of electrical force.

   The electroscope acts on the principle of divergence, and con
sists of a long index of reed, easily moveable on a delicate axis
set on points in an elliptical ring of brass. This index diverges
over a graduated circle from two fixed arms of brass when a
slight degree of electricity is communicated to the ring.

   The electrometer measures the force of electrical attraction,
under given conditions, by means of two opposed conductors,
                  TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                  387

one of which is fixed, the other moveable, the latter being sus
pended from the periphery of a wheel. The distance between
the conductors is either constant or variable, according to the
conditions of the experiment, and the force is estimated on a
graduated arc in terms of a known standard of weight or other
wise in degrees.
The unit of measure consists of a small electrical jar, having
a discharging electrometer, and inverted on the prime conductor
of the machine. The quantity accumulated is measured by its
repeated explosions, in consequence of electricity passing from
the outer coating.
   When it is required to communicate comparative quantities
of electricity to simple insulated conductors, sparks are drawn
by means of an insulated transfer plate from an insulated jar
charged by the preceding method with a known quantity.
   By the aid of these instruments, the author has arrived at
some new results in electricity, which appear to be not un
worthy of notice.

   In disposing different quantities of electricity on insulated
conductors of similar form and dimensions, he finds that the at
tractive force is directly as the square of the quantity, the sur
face being constant ; and inversely as the square of the surface,
the quantity being constant ; being similar to the results which
he had already arrived at in examining the disposition of elec
tricity on coated jars*.
On comparing those results with the striking distance of a
given accumulation, he finds that the quantity of electricity re
quisite to produce a discharge is invariably as the square of the
distance directly ; that is to say, when the distance is twice as
great, there is four times the quantity of electricity accumulated
at the instant of the discharge, all other things remaining the
same ; and this is true, whether the accumulation take place on
simple insulated conductors or on coated jars.

  The above laws are general when the conductors or jars are
in every respect similar, but they do not obtain under every
possible kind of extension of the same surface. The author
finds, with Professor Volta, that extension in length increases
the capacity of a given conductor. In examining the capacities
of plane surfaces for electricity, he finds the capacity to be as
the linear dimensions of
                          the plate inversely,   the area being   con
stant; and if the linear  dimensions be the     same, it varies  in an
inverse ratio of the area. The extent of edge or boundary of
the plate, however, has not in itself any influence on the capa-

                  ·  Memoirs  of  the Plymouth  Institution.

                                    5lc2
388 THIRD REPORT -- 1833.

city of a conductor : the extent of edge is merely a function of
the peculiar kind of extension to which the given area has been
subjected, and by which the electrical particles become placed
in respect of each other, in such way as to diminish their ope
ration on external bodies, that is to say, their intensity.
   This view seems confirmed by numerous experiments made
by the author. The same plates turned into cylinders, both in
the direction of their lengths and breadths, were found to have
still the same capacities, that is to say, whether the conductor
was simply a plate or an open cylinder. Neither did any differ

ences arise in turning a given plate into other figures approach
ing cylinders, such as triangular and hexagonal prisms. The
capacity of a sphere, also, is the same as a plane circular area of
equal superficies. Hence the capacity of a cylinder or sphere
for free electricity, may be conceived to be the same as that of
the plane area into which it may be supposed to be rectified.
   These results seem of some consequence to the theory of

electrical action. It has been found, for example, that the in
terior surface of a sphere charged with free electricity does not
electrify a conducting substance when placed completely within
it ; it has been hence inferred, that the electrical accumulation is
disposed altogether upon its exterior surface. Now the inten
sity of a sphere being the same as that of a plane area of equal
superficial extent, it should follow that the electrical distribution

is in each case the same, since it is difficult from any known fact
to suppose a given quantity of electricity expanded over twice

the surface,    as  in the plane area, and  thyeertefmoraei,ntaiifn    the same
intensity.          redundant electricity,                           the above
              The
deduction be true, should only be disposed on one side of the

plate.
   Since the capacity of plane conductors varies in an inverse

ratio of their area and linear dimensions, it is requisite, if we de
sire to obtain plane surfaces whose capacities for electricity shall

be double, treble, &c, of each other, to construct the plates so
that their areas and linear dimensions shall be likewise double,

treble, &c, of each other respectively.
   The law according to which the force of electrical attraction
varies at different distances  is an important object of physical
                               and satisfactorily arrived at by the
research. It may be easily
methods of experiment above mentioned. The author exhibited
to the Section, by the means of his balance, the resulting law
of electrical force when exerted between two circular plane
areas directly opposed to each other, at different distances, and
which was found to be in an inverse ratio of the squares of the
respective distances exactly.
              TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.         389

   This law is immediately apparent when the opposed surfaces
are parallel planes or rings ; but in the case of spheres, or
bodies of other forms, the experiment is of a somewhat more

complicated character.

   With a view of reducing the experiments to a more simple
form, the author has been led to some further inquiries into the
peculiar mode of action of the force under examination, which
merit an attentive consideration. He finds,

   1. The force exerted between an electrified and insulated
neutral conductor is not at all influenced by the form and dis
position of the unopposed portions. Thus the force is precisely
the same, whether the opposed bodies are merely circular plane
areas, or are otherwise backed by hemispheres or cones.

   2. The force is as the attracting surface directly, and as the
squares of the distances inversely. Hence the attractive force
between parallel plane circles being found, the force between
any other two similar planes will be given.
- 3. The attractive force between two unequal circular areas is
no greater than that exerted between two similar areas each
equal to the lesser.

   4. The attractive force between a mere ring on a circular
area is no greater than that between two similar rings.

   5. The force between a sphere and an opposed spherical seg
ment of the same curvature is no greater than that of two similar

segments each equal to the given segment.
These results have been arrived at by the instruments already
mentioned, the electrical intensity in each series of experiments

beAingcasruepfpuolsienddutchteionsamfreo.m the above facts has led the author
to consider the attractive force between two equal spheres as
made up of a system of parallel forces operating between the
homologous points of the opposed hemispheres, the total force
being as the number of attracting points directly, and as the
squares of the respective distances inversely.
These simple elements enable us to determine a point q a*
within  each hemisphere, in which the
posed   to be concentrated, and to be  whole force  mifaeymbaneastiunpg
                                       the same as
from every point of the hemisphere. The locus of this point
within the surface will depend on the distance between the near
est points of the spheres, and may be readily found by the ex

pression z =  o-- , a being the distance between the

nearest points of attraction, and r the radius of the sphere,
and .z the distance of the point within the hemisphere.

   The points q q' being thus found, the whole force is observed
£90 THIRD REPORT -- 1833.

to vary between them according to the general law already
-- Jarrived at.
          It varies   also  as a.       ;   +   ;r-r, that  is,  inversely as the
                                        (a      fir)
distance between the nearest points multiplied into the distance

between the centres.
The author found these deductions accord very completely

with subsequent experiments, so that the weight requisite to

counterpoise the force between two equal spheres at given di

stances may be invariably predicted with great precision. Some
of these results were exhibited to the Section by means of the

balance.
When two plane circular areas, each equal to the areas of the
hemispheres rectified into plane surfaces, are opposed to each
other, and placed so as to pass through the points q g1 above
mentioned, the attractive force is extremely near that obtained
by means of the opposed spheres, the distances being estimated
from the same points.

   The author believes that many of the results thus arrived at
have not been hitherto included in the received theories of elec

tricity, and is disposed to think that we may yet arrive at easier

views of electrical action, and hence bring the phaenomena more
completely under the dominion of analysis.

On Electricity. By the Rev. John G. MacVicar, of St.
AWn.drWewhse. w(eElxl,traFc.Rt .oSf.,a  Letter  from  the Author  to  the Rev.
                                        &c.)

   As a basis for his theory of electrical phaenomena, Mr. Mac-
Vicar assumes that those parts of bodies which are capable of
displaying electric phaenomena possess a filamentary or acicu-
lar structure, an hypothesis which he is not disposed to rest
upon such a consideration as M. Ampere makes it rest, when
advancing his hypothesis of magnetic action, (namely, that by
making such a supposition one may explain many phaenomena,)
but upon these two principles : First, The action of the first law
of motion, which must ever tend to distribute the matter in
which impulses are embodied in a filamentary or acicular ar
rangement, or at all events in an arrangement in which a linear
continuity of matter is maintained, which (since every material
medium is known to be very porous,) can only give rise to such
a structure. Secondly, Upon the known intimate structure of
bodies, so far as that can be observed by the microscope, du
ring solidification, by cleavage or otherwise.

   This granted, he inquires what are the phaenomena of trans
verse vibration that must be displayed by such filamentary
TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.  391

tissue, the length of each filament being regarded as indefinite
in comparison with the smallness of the elementary impulses to
which it is supposed to be subjected during the excitement of
electric phaenomena. And from the well known phaenomena
of extended chords, he infers that each must undulate in a ser
pentine manner, the point where the exciting impulse is ap
plied being the centre of a vibrating portion, which may be
called the primary ; and this accompanied on both hands by
ulterior vibrating portions, which may be called reciprocal or
secondary, and whose phases of motion must ever tend to be
exactly opposite to that of the primary or central part, and
would of course succeed in being so could the filament consist
ing of the primary and two secondary vibrating portions be
regarded as an elastic chord stretched between two fixed nuts
at its extremities. But since the filament, as has been stated,
is in the present case to be viewed as of indefinite length, and
instead of being stopped by two nuts at two definite points, is
to be viewed as equally prepared for being stopped at every
point, and so is analogous to an extended chord possessing
many moveable nuts which spontaneously shift their position so
as to be always adapted to the impulse, he concludes that the
central vibratory portion, and the two reciprocal or secondary
vibratory portions, will not be in unison, but the latter shorter
and consequently more rapid in their movements, and taken
together equivalent to the central or primary one in the quan
tity of motion they embody. Such is the theory from which
he thinks all the phaenomena of electric action may be deduced,
without calling in the aid of electric fluids.

   Mr. Mac Vicar then proceeds to apply his theory to the ex
planation of electric polarity and induction, and points out the
analogy between the production of light by undulations in the
universal aether, and the excitement of electrical phaenomena
by undulations in denser media.

Inquiry into the Cause oRfevE.ndJ.osPmoowseer.and Exosmose. By the

   The author investigates these phaenomena upon La Place's
principles of capillary attraction.

   The two fluids are supposed to communicate by means of a
capillary tube, which has a stronger attraction for one than the
other. The attraction between the particles of the opposite
fluids is supposed to be greater than the attraction of the par
ticles of either fluid for particles of their own kind. Also the
attraction between the particles of the tube and of the more
392 THIRD REPORT -- 1833.

strongly attracted fluid in contact with
                                     a                             supposed to be

                                                     it,
                                                          is
greater than the attraction of the latter particles for themselves.
By reason of this last supposition the fluid will, according to La
Place, form an internal coating of the capillary tube, which in
ternal coating will itself act as capillary tube upon the fluid
next in contact. This new capillary tube, attracting the par
ticles of the opposite fluid more strongly than its own, will
                                                                                             in

turn be coated by thin stratum of that fluid, which may again
                a
                     a
be regarded as fresh capillary tube and this alternation may
                                     ;

extend itself to the very axis of the original tube, the opposite
fluids thus forming series of interlacing cylinders one within
                     a

another.

   That cylinder of fluid which lies in immediate contact with
the tube, must be supposed to become mixed with the opposite
fluid, either before issues from the tube, or at distance be
                     it                                            a

yond less than the sphere of sensible attraction. Were this;
    it
            it
not the case, the tube acting equally at its two extremities

would produce no effect and the action of endosmose (so far
at least as depends on the tube,) would cease, allowing the or
dinary mixing process time to extend itself within the tube;
after which the motion would recommence.
   The maximum force obtained by supposing this mixture to

be completed within the tube, at distance from the issuing ex
                     it              a
                        is
                                                              it
                              is                                     is

                                                                                          ;
tremity not less than the sphere of sensible attraction and this
    the force which     our object to compute, for
is                                                                                         plain that

at the moment when the endosmose ceases from the increase of

pressure within the vessel where the fluid accumulates, the or

dinary mixing process will be at liberty to extend itself within
the tube and, in experiment,         by means of these ultimate
    ;                                it
                                        is
                                            is

                                                                :
pressures that the forces are compared.                          -- the process              being

   The principle of the computation this
supposed to have gone on for some time, the effective attractions
are found by taking the sums of the attractions due to the dif
ferent substances regarded as coexisting (each with a dimi
nished density,) within the same identical space. Expressions
for the forces are thus obtained in terms of these partial densi
ties. The fluids being supposed to suffer no penetration of di
mensions in consequence of mixture, the partial densities, which
are four in number, are readily expressed in terms of the two
actual or total densities, and the constants depending on the
initial state of the fluids and thus we are able to express the
forces in terms of the actual densities and the constants above
                        ;
mentioned.                                              ;

                                                                               is
    The expression for the maximum force of endosmose thus
found to be composed of two terms the first being propor
                         TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.

tional to the difference of densities, and the latter to the square
 of this difference.

   The last term is the force of exosmose. It is proportional

to the effort with which the fluid cylinders tend to penetrate
each other, independently of the action of the tube, and seems to
be a proper measure for the force with which the opposite fluids

tend to unite in the ordinary case of mixture. It is positive
when the attraction between the particles of the opposite fluids
exceeds the arithmetic mean between the attractions of the par
ticles of the two fluids for particles of their own kind; is negative
when less than this mean, and of course vanishes in the case of

equality.

   When the force expressed by this last term is negative, the
fluid cylinders, instead of penetrating further into the opposite
fluid, will retreat into their respective fluids, and no mixture
will take place. This is probably the reason why some fluids,
such as oil and water, refuse to mix.

   The substances with which Dutrochet made his interesting
experiments were saccharine or gummy solutions on the one
hand, and water on the other. These fluids have a sufficient
tendency to mix for the purpose of carrying on the process ;
but that tendency being a very slow one (as any one may con
vince himself by dropping a little treacle or a solution of gum
arabic into a glass of water), the last term is probably very
small ; in which case the force ought to be very nearly propor
tional to the difference of densities, which is the law observed
by Dutrochet.

   In support of that part of this theory which supposes the in
terlacing of the internal cylinders, a passage is quoted from the
Mecanique Celeste, in which La Place contemplates such an
arrangement*. But in whatever way the fluids be supposed to
mix in the interior of the tube, the same force of endosmose will
result, provided that the extremities of the tube are totally im
mersed, one in one fluid and the other in the other, to a distance
within the tube not less than the sphere of sensible attraction.

On Electro-chemical Decomposition. By Michael Faraday,
   D.C.L. F.R.S. Professor of Chemistry in the Royal In

   stitution.
   In explanation of the present report of the subject brought
forward by Mr. Faraday at this time, it may be needful to say
that it forms part of his fifth series of Experimental Researches

                                  · Supplcm. au Xe Livre, pp. 28, 29.
391 THIRD REPORT 1833.

in Electricity. In the first and second were developed the
theory and facts of magneto-electricity; in the third, the
identity of voltaic, common, and other electricities, was proved,
so as to allow of the use of one for the other; in the fourth,
a new law connected with the conduction and decomposition of
bodies was developed ; and in the fifth, by the application of
the third and fourth, an attempt is made to ascertain the true
nature of electro-chemical decomposition.

   This important part of chemical or electrical science has been
expressly treated of by different philosophers, and viewed in
various lights. The opinions formed of it differ very much
from each other, but agree generally in referring it to the at
traction of the poles or metallic terminations of the pole, for
the principles either proximate or ultimate present in the de

composing body.
   Having proved to his own satisfaction that common elec

tricity had the same power of effecting chemical decomposition
as that of the voltaic battery, and even shown that when mea
sured out, a quantity of it does the same chemical work as an
equal quantity of voltaic electricity, Mr. Faraday resorted to
it for the purpose of taking advantage of its high intensity in
effecting decomposition under circumstances in which the
voltaic battery would be quite inefficient, and so to accumu
late facts and gain knowledge which might bear upon and
explain the usual mode of action of the latter. He found that
decomposition could be effected without the use of any poles,
or at least without the use of those metallic terminations usually
called poles ; for when salts and iodides were submitted to the
action of electricity, passing to and from them only through
the air, still decomposition took place. For instance, a piece
of paper being cut into a lozenge-shape, moistened with solution
of sulphate of soda, and placed between two points, one con
nected with the electrical machine, and the other with a dis
charging train, formed of a very extensive metallic system,
communicating with the ground, soon showed evidence of the
evolution of free acid and alkali, as the electricity of the ma
chine passed through though was two inches distant from
either of the points. The acid was evolved at that point where
the positive electricity entered the moistened paper, and the
alkali at that point where the electricity left the paper ». e.
considering the paper as little conductor surrounded by air,
the acid was evolved at the negative extremity, and the alkali
at the positive extremity. Many other facts were referred to,
in which, as in this, air poles were successfully used; but the
word pole must in these researches be understood as having
it,
    a

               it

                                                                                        ;
TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                         395

no other meaning than the substance or surface which limits
the decomposing body in the direction of the electric current.
   It then became an object
                              to  produce a water   pole, and   by
much care this was effected.      strong solution               of
                              A                    of sulphate

magnesia was so adjusted as to have pure water floating upon
it over one half of its surface ; a platina plate was dipped hori
zontally into this water, and another placed vertically in the
half of the solution of magnesia uncovered by water ; so that
the order of things were, platina, sulphate of magnesia solution,
pure water, platina: the first platina was rendered positive,
and the latter negative, by contact with a voltaic battery. Im
mediately there was decomposition both of the water and of

the salt present ; the water yielded its elements against the

platina pole, but the salt could not do so. It is true the acid
appeared against the positive pole, but the earth magnesia
appeared in the plane where the solution and water were in
contact ; in fact, upon the surface of water next the decom
posing solution, and not upon the negative platina pole. Here,
therefore, a true water pole was obtained, i. e. a surface of
water upon or against which the earth magnesia evolved in a
case of electro-chemical decomposition was deposited.

   These were considered as very important facts in determining
the true character of the action taking place in cases of electro

chemical decomposition generally.                  \

Another correction of commonly received opinions was con
sidered as essential in assisting to determine the nature of
electro-chemical action. It has been generally stated by Sir
Humphry Davy and others, that water is essential to decom
position by the voltaic battery; but Mr. Faraday has shown that
such is not the case, and that an immense number of other bodies
have, not merely equal powers, but powers far surpassing those

of water in that respect. The cause of this mistake has been
our ignorance of a law developed in the fourth series of the
Experimental Researches, under which an extensive class of
compound bodies, such as oxides, chlorides, iodides, salts, &c,
which are either very bad or nearly non-conductors when solid,
become most excellent conductors when melted, and then are
decomposed with extreme facility. Water happens to be the
only one of this class of bodies existing naturally in the fluid
and therefore decomposable state : it loses this power when it
becomes a solid, and other bodies gain it when they become
fluid. Electro-chemical decomposition does not therefore, of
necessity, involve the presence of water.

   For the purpose of making his own view of matters clear
and distinct, Mr. Faraday gave a brief view of the theories of
396 THIRD REPORT -- 1833.

electro-chemical decomposition advanced by others, as far as
they could be gathered from their published papers.
   Grotthuss published on the subject in the year 1805. He
considers the pole as an attractive agent ; the poles have at
tractive and repelling powers : the negative pole attracts
hydrogen and repels oxygen, whilst the positive pole attracts
oxygen and repels hydrogen. The powers of each pole upon
any one particle are inversely as the squares of the distances;
hence giving, as he says, (though erroneously,) for any one
particle, a constant force. He first put forth the view of suc

cessive decompositions and recompositions, and so explains
the appearance of the elements at a distance from each other.
He thinks the elements about to separate at the poles, unite
to the two electricities there, and so become gases*.
   Sir Humphry Davy wrote on the subject in 1806. His ex
pressions are very general, so as to accord with many specific
views of decomposition ; but when more particular, he refers
the decomposing effects to the attraction of the polesf . 1 Ie
agrees with Grotthuss in supposing successive compositions and
decompositions throughout the fluid ; supposes that the attrac

tive and repellent agencies may be communicated from the
metallic surfaces throughout the whole of the menstruum, being
communicated from one particle to another particle of the same
kind, and diminishing in strength from the place of the poles
to the middle part, which is necessarily neutral. In 1826, Sir

Humphry Davy said he had nothing to alter in the fundamental
theory just referred to, and uses the terms attraction and re
pulsion in the same sense as before.

   MM. Riffault and Chompr£ in 1807 came to the conclusion
that not merely decompositions, but actual separations of the
elements took place throughout the whole of the humid con
           They consider   the negative current
ductors.  the acids, &c,  to the positive pole,       as collecting and
carrying                                              and the positive
current as doing the same thing with bases, leaving them at
the negative pole.

   M. Biot speaks very philosophically and cautiously, but refers
the effects to the attraction and repulsion exerted by the poles
and the parts in their vicinity. He does not appear to admit
the successive recompositions and decompositions of Grotthuss
and Davy, but seems to consider the particles under transfer
as attached for the time to the electricity, and carried on by it.

   · Annates de C/iimie, ISOfi, torn, lviii. p. 64.   Elements  of Chemical

   t Philosophical Transactions 1807, pp. 28, 29,30;

Philosophy, p. 160.
              TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                  397

Decomposition is supposed to take place at both poles, and not
at all in the intermediate parts, which merely act as imperfect
conductors*.
   M. A. De la Rive experimented and wrote on this subject
in 1825. He says, those who refer the effect to the attraction
of the poles only express the fact, and do not explain it. He
thinks the results are due to a combination of the elements with
the electricities at the poles by virtue of a species of play of
affinities between the substances and the electricities. The
current at the positive pole unites with the hydrogen, combus
tibles, metals and bases it may find there, leaving the oxygen
and the acids at liberty to escape : it passes across to the ne
gative pole, on the surface of which it leaves the ponderable
bodies, entering itself into the metal, and passing awayf. The
electricity at the negative             the same thing with
                             pole does  them across to the   oxygen,
chlorine, acids, &c, and     carrying                        positive
pole, there leaves them. Thus half the elements on each side
are ejected by a species of superior affinity, and the other half
are brought from the opposite pole in combination with the
electricity of that pole. Successive decompositions and recom-
positions are not admitted by M. De la Rive. Decomposition
takes place at both poles, and only at the poles, and the inter
vening parts of the humid conductor are themselves unaltered.
Mr. Faraday contended that the experiments he had de
scribed opposed generally all those views which referred electro
chemical decomposition to the attractions and repulsions of the
           Thus, when the elements were               against air, the
poles.                                      evolved   be theoretically
poles   as attractive agents were absent ;
                                            or if it
said that the air then acted as poles, and attracted the element,
which, however, could not pass across it to the superior metallic

poles on the outside, then he quoted the water pole, where the

element might have gone to the metal, according to the theory,
but was found not to do so ; and as the evolved elements can
be made to appear against air, which is not a conductor, nor is
decomposed ; or against water, which is a conductor, and can
be decomposed ; as well as against metals, which are excellent
conductors, but undecomposable, there appears but little reason

to consider the phaenomena generally as due to the attraction
or attractive powers of the latter, when used in the ordinary
way, since similar attractions can hardly be imagined in the
former instances.
Mr. Faraday's view is, that the effect is produced by an in
ternal corpuscular action, exerted according to the direction of

· Precis Elementaire de Physique, 1824, torn. i. pp. 637, 641, 642, &c.
t Annates de Chimie, torn, xxviii. pp. 190, 200, 202.
398            THIRD REPORT 1833.

the electrical current, and that it is due to a force either super
added to, or giving direction to, the ordinary chemical affinity
of the bodies present. The decomposing body may be consi
dered as a mass of acting particles, all those which are included
in the course of the electrical current contributing to the final
effect : and it is because the ordinary chemical affinity is re
lieved, weakened, or partly neutralized by the influence of the
electric current in one direction parallel to the course of the
latter, and strengthened or added to in the opposite direction,
that the combining particles have a tendency to pass in oppo
site courses.
In this view the effect is considered as essentially dependent
                                                             of the   particles of
kuipnodns.theAmpuaturtailclechceomulidcalnoat fftirnaivteyl                         opposite
                                                              from   the negative   towards

the positive pole unless it found other particles in its course
inclined to travel from the positive to the negative pole. As far
as regards two compound particles, the case may be considered

as analogous to one of ordinary chemical decomposition ; but
as all the compound particles in the course of the electric cur
rent, except those actually in contact with the poles, act con

jointly, the case becomes more complicated, though not more
difficult of comprehension.
Many facts were then quoted in illustration of the manner in
which particles acting under the force of their ordinary che
mical affinities, governed in a greater or smaller degree for the
time by the passing current, according to its force or quantity,
would render themselves, or be excluded at the opposite extre
mities of the decomposable mass in the direction of the currents.
Dilute sulphuric acid of a certain strength was found, when sub
mitted to the action of the pile, to yield after a time a stronger
acid at the positive than at the negative side ; i. e. a certain
quantity of acid had been transferred from the negative towards
the positive pole : but when the acid was previously neutralized
by an alkali, then a far greater quantity of acid was transferred
by the same current of electricity. These and many other ex-
               results will appear in the fifth series of Experimental
&SeRcrAei,mslelwearnhtchtihaceelhsp, ahpstoepneboaemrepedunabsloiosefhxetrtdaranisnofretdrhienoaPfrhyaiclotidossoDptahhvircyoaulagnhdTraoaltnkhasealirecsst,iwohn&escn..
they were discovered, are the necessary consequence of the
theory of Mr. Faraday ; and, in fact, such transferences are by

him considered as essential to electro-chemical decomposition.

   The manner in which the evolved elements are set free at the

poles, inexplicable upon the old theories, are necessary conse

quences of his theory ; or if they combine, still the effects are
TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                        399

natural results due to the influence of the chemical affinity,
modified by the current. The refusal of elements or substances
present to collect at the poles unless they are in relation by
solution or chemical affinity with the substances present, also
finds its natural reason in the theory.

   The fact that an element will sometimes go to one pole and
sometimes to the other, according to the substances with which
it is in association at the time, is an immediate result of the
theory. Nitrogen is said to do this : it will go freely to the po
sitive pole, and doubtfully to the negative pole. Water will go
either to the positive or negative pole, and sulphur will also do
so : from oxygen it will go to the negative pole, from silver to

the positive pole.

   Want of time and apparatus prevented a further develop
ment of this view and its consequences, but it will appear in de
tail in the next Part of the Philosophical Transactions.

Experiments on Atomic Weights. By Dr. Turner.

Dr. Turner reported to the Meeting that he had continued
his researches into atomic weights, and had to his own convic
tion determined the points which had induced him to undertake
the inquiry. These were, first, to form an opinion of the re
lative accuracy of the tables of equivalents employed in this
country and on the continent ; and, secondly, to ascertain whe
ther there existed any trustworthy evidence in proof of the
hypothesis that the equivalents of bodies are multiples by whole
numbers of the equivalent of hydrogen. To examine these

questions he endeavoured to ascertain by careful and often-
repeated experiments the equivalents of silver, chlorine, lead,
barium, mercury, and nitrogen, in relation to oxygen. These
were selected in consequence of their frequent use   in analysis.
                                                     the equiva
An error in these could not exist without affecting
lents of nearly all the other elementary substances. The re

searches on this subject had been lately read before the Royal
Society, and would probably, ere long, be published in some
form or other. The general result is, that the atomic weights
current in this country are much less exact than those given
by Berzelius ; that though they had been recommended to
British chemists as rigidly correct, they were often very inexact,
and had been determined by methods which in some important
cases were defective. Further, he finds that as far as experi
mental evidence at present goes, the hypothesis above alluded
to is unsupported. In some instances the equivalents are so
nearly simple multiples of that of hydrogen that they may be
taken as such without appreciable error ; but in many other
400      THIRD REPORT 1833.

cases the numbers given by experiment cannot be reconciled
                        The                         numbers which he
with the hypothesis.           following are   the  lead, 103-6; silver,
is disposed to believe  very   nearly correct
                                               :--

108; chlorine, 35-42; barium, 68-7; mercury, 202, perhaps
slightly higher, but not higher than 202-3 ; nitrogen, 14-2. Dr.
Turner states that his methods for ascertaining nitrogen were
not so advisable as that in which Dr. Prout is occupied by
weighing the gases. This weight should be kept in abeyance
for the present. He conceives that it does not fall below 14,
nor exceed 14-2. During these researches he incidentally ob
tained some facts for inferring the equivalent of silver ; and
from these it appears that the equivalent of sulphur is nearer
16-1 than 16. He would not venture, however, to make a

positive statement without further inquiry.
He then mentioned that Dr. Prout had kindly informed him
of a fact which he conceived analytical chemists in general to be

ignorant of, and which he thought might have had an influence
on these researches. The fact is, that chloride of silver, however

white and well washed, gives out a little muriatic acid at the
moment of fusing. This fact Dr. Turner has examined, and can
confirm. It especially ensues when fusion takes place before
the chloride has been well dried ; but in the event of the chloride
of silver being first well dried at 300° (when no acid is given
out), and then, without exposure to the atmosphere while cold,
fused, the loss of acid is not appreciable in weight, though it is
still sufficient to redden delicate litmus paper. In two experi
ments about fifty grains of chloride of silver were fused, (pre
viously dried at 300°, introduced while hot into a dry bottle
furnished with a tight cork, and weighed in that state,) and the
loss was inappreciable. From this circumstance, taken in con
junction with the mode in which he habitually weighs the
chloride of silver, he is satisfied that the fact observed by Dr.
Prout does not necessarily produce any error in the determi
nation of chlorine by means of silver.

Notice of a Method of analysing Carbonaceous Iron. By

                           Professor Johnston.

Professor Johnston gave an account of a new mode of deter
mining the amount of charcoal in the carbonaceous irons, by
which he hopes to obtain results more precise and trustworthy
than those arrived at by any former mode. This method con
sists essentially in reducing the iron to fine powder in a steel
mortar,  and burning it with   oxide   of              Mr.  Johnston
expects   to be able to lay a  series  of  copper.          the next
Meeting of the Association.                results  before
       TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                 401

Communication  respecting an Arch  of the  Aurora  Borealis.
                  By R. Potter,    Jun.*
A very luminous arch of an aurora borealis was observed at
Edinburgh by Professor Forbes on the evening of the 21st of
March 1833. It was observed at    Athboy in Ireland by the
Earl of Darnley, by Dr. Robinson  at Armagh, and also by a
correspondent of one of the Carlisle newspapers.
The observations demonstrate the view of the symmetrical
arches being similar to parallels of latitude round the magnetic
axis, the arch being seen in those positions at Edinburgh,
Armagh, and Athboy which such a direction requires.

Report of Experiments on the Quantities of Rain falling at dif
  fGuenrredaneyrtt,aEkJuleennv.a,atitaonntdhseJoarhbeonqvueePshtthielloiSpfustrh,feaFce.ARso.sSofc.tihaGet.ioSGn.r,,oSubenycdreWattailrliYieaosrmko,f

    the Yorkshire Philosophical Society ; with Remarks on the

   Results ofthese Experiments, by John Phillips, F.R.S. G.S.
   I. Report of the Experiments. -- York, the site of these
experiments, stands in the centre of perhaps the most uniform
and extensive vale in England, reaching from the mouth of the
Tees to the aestuary of the Humber, a length of 70 miles, with
a breadth of from 15 to 25 miles. In this vast space no ground
rises more than 100 or 150 feet above the level of York ; and

the Minster, elevated 200 feet from the ground, looks down upon
an area of above 1000 square miles, in which hardly any object,
whether of nature or art, rises to within 100 feet of its summit.

   On the east the vale is bordered by the range of the Wolds,
whose extreme height is 805 feet, and the escarpments of the
oolitic system, which swell to 1485 feet. On the west, the
distant hilly regions of the coal and limestone tract appear
above the low plateau of magnesian limestone.

   These circumstances of situation give an importance to the
moderate height of York Minster which is denied to many
loftier buildings in England. From its summit the course of a

            storm may be well traced from even the distant hills of
BaRsicshinmgond ; and the deflections occasioned by the attraction of
the sides of the vale, the rushing of the air, the sudden fall
of temperature, and many other curious phaenomena accom

panItyiins,gptrhoebapbrelyc,iptoitatthieonpeocfulriaairnit,ymoafyitbsegewoegllraopbhseicrvael ds.ituation

that we are to attribute the remarkable general regularity of the
curves of mean temperature at York ; for the deviation of the

· See Lond. and Etlinb. Philosophical Magazine, Third Series, vol. iii. p. 422.

1833.          2d
402 THIRD REPORT -- 1833.

daily mean temperature at this place from the annual mean is
pretty exactly proportional to the sines of the sun's declination
    tdhaeysyebaerfoirse48th°e-2d;ayofoJfuolybse6r2v°a, tioonf.JanTuharey  mean
25                                                                          34°   temperature
                                                                                 5. Average
of
quantity of rain 24 inches. Prevalent winds W. and S.W. :
about the vernal equinox N.E. winds are frequent.
    The Yorkshire Museum lies nearly west of the Minster, en
tirely beyond the city, which here encircles the Minster by a
narrow belt of houses. Its roof is the highest in the immediate
vicinity : it stands free from other buildings, and is surrounded
on every side by the grounds of the institution.

   In these grounds, south-west of the Museum, the third sta
tion is taken, in the midst of a large grass-plat. The second
and third stations are nearly equidistant from the Minster:

the intervening distances are,                                                   peeL

    ...Between the Minster and the Museum gauges . 1 100
                the Museum and garden gauges                                     136

    Elevation of the gauges above the river, which is nearly
level with high water in the Humber :
                                                                                 Feet In
    Minster top gauge, raised on 9 ft. pole . . . 241 10}
    Museum top gauge                                                             72 8

    Gauge in grounds                                                             29 0

From these data it will appear that it would be difficult to

select three points more remarkably embracing the desired
conditions of gradation of altitude, openness of sky, and con
tiguity of position.

  AThe gauges employed are of the simplest construction.
cubical box of strong tin, exactly 10 inches by the side, open
above, receives, at an inch below its edge, a funnel sloping to
a small hole in the centre. On one of the lateral edges of the
box, close to the top of the cavity, is soldered a short pipe,
in which a cork is fitted. The whole is well painted. This is
the gauge. The water which enters it is poured through the
short tube  into a cylindrical glass                                             to cubic
inches and  fifths of cubic inches.   vessel graduated
                                      Hence one inch                             depth of
rain in the gauge will be measured by 100 inches of the gra
duated vessel,  and -nnnrth of an inch  of rain
                                                 msaaymebemvoeuryld,eaasnilyd
read off. All   the gauges were made    on the
the same glass jar has been used in every observation.
   The gauge in the ground has its edge nearly level with the
grass ; that on the Museum projects 1 1 inches above the stone
work ; and the Minster gauge is supported on a pole nine feet
above the level of the battlements of the great tower, whose
top is 70 feet square.
                TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.

             Table of Results for Twelve Months.

1832, 1833.                                         Ground.

Feb. 4 to Feb. 13.              Inches.    Inches.     Inches.
                          20.    -060       -119       -147
                                  ·010      -010       -008
             27.                                                                     / Abundance of Apliorlii
                                  ·017       ·020       ·018
March         5.                                                                      ( in the Minster gauge.
April       12.                   ·174       ·251       ·366
            If).                  ·198      -273       ·386                           Violent gales.
                                 ·052       -062       ·093                          (-Perpendicular rain,
            86.                  -041        116       ·238                         < without a trace of
             2.                  ·005       ·006       ·004                          L wind, in large drops.

May . .        lfi.              ·701       ·756       ·855                             Thunder storm.

June . .        33.              ·013       ·015      -017
July . .                         ·249       ·353       ·444
                SO.                      1-574      1-887
August .    . 7.               1113         ·442       ·530
                                            ·203       ·257
               14.               ·375        141      ·167
               21.               ·133      ·010       ·012
                                 ·088      ·719       ·792
               88.               ·002    1-138      1-161
                5.               ·557    1-166      1-291
                                -953       ·397       ·438
              12.               -908                1-230
                2.              ·351     1115         ·150
                9.              ·999        133      -825
                                ·113
              16.               ·711       ·785
              23.

                6.

            13. ·033                     -050       -062                            JC Abundance of small

                                                                                         Hymenoptera in the
                                                                                        Minster gauge, but
                                                                                    ]   not in the others.
            27.                                                                     |_  Ditto
              3.               1-639     1-911
September                      1-388     1-747      2-172                                      ditto.
            17.                                     2-036
October .     8.                  ·376     ·500                                        (This occurrence has
November                                              ·583                          been frequently noticed
            12.                  ·439      ·605
December    30.                1-459     2-080        ·753                          in the summer and au
January .                                1-308      2-280
February .  17.                1019      1-012      1-459                           tumn.)
            14.                                     1-399
                                 ·703    1165       1-725

                                 ·836

            1. Snow -195 Snow-279 Snow -6 16 drift                                      Drifted snow on the top
                                                                               ed.       of the ground gauge.

Total of 12 months              15-910   20-461     24-401
                                         20-182     23-785
Ditto, exclusive of            i 15-715
 snow in Feb. 1833

                                         2D2
404                 THIRD REPORT 1833.

csrteeeormdmIeIianse.trgiknoRagttebahlmbeeilranerdidknouasefctqatroiuoenwansluhstihtlitycecshooRnafIcepeshtprhuaneelviatnesrgqsuooabsftntuhatfteifihtniiceeeilesadEnw,xto,pafteonwrrdiahmaienutnehtnaehcttosorc.dm--iazifbuefisenTerseheodmenotefwpetriilhetnehe

vations above the ground.                                                         of the
   1. The notion which is most generally entertained
cause of this inequality is, that wind, blowing horizontally,
causes fewer drops of rain to fall upon the more elevated
gauges. That this notion is a mere fallacy,                   the least acquaint
ance with mechanics is sufficient to prove                    ; for certainly the

number of drops of rain which fall, under the joint influence
of gravitation and ordinary wind, upon horizontal surfaces,
will be, cceteris paribus, exactly the same at all elevations be
low the point from which the rain descends.
2. It is supposed by some that eddy winds, produced by
the sides of buildings and rising                 upwards,    may deflect the     rain
so as to prevent much of it from                  falling on  those buildings.
is certainly conceivable that this                                                  It
                                                   irregular
                                                              action against gra
vity may, when very violent, under particular circumstances,
produce a sensible effect, and such appears to be recognised
by our experiments, in one instance, during the equinoctial
period of March 1832.
   But it is evident that in the majority               of    cases the effect     of
                                                              have noticed in
the eddying wind is quite unimportant.                   I                        se

veral instances the fact, that the wind which accompanies the
fall of rain takes the line of the rain-drops themselves ; and
     Minster, in                                                      strikingly illus
     when, with     particular, this                    was very
Ion the             my friends Mr.                      Jonathan      Gray and Mr.

trated,
William Gray, junior, watched the progress of a storm for 30
miles down the vale of York. The wind was insensible except
during the fall of rain, and then it came downward with the
drops. There is no need of further remarks on this subject,
because the results recorded are too regular, considerable, and
consistent with known properties of the atmosphere, to be

Iexplained by such fluctuating and inadequate agency.                             have

   3. With respect to the observations on the ground,
Yproorcku,refdorsecvoemraplarriesognisterwsithof        rain which    fell  in and about
                                                   the  observations    in  the Museum
                                                  the
garden. By this comparison it is abundantly evident that the
situation of the gauge, its exposure to eddy winds, and other
irregularities, have very little influence upon the mean results.
While the gauge     in the Museum garden                Misr.reJm. aGrrkaayb'sly  open on
                    level with the ground,                                        is raised
all sides, and set

three feet above, and placed in a small garden, surrounded by
                       TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                                m

high walls and         buildings. Yet           in the  Museum   J.gaGrdraeny'swreeshualvtse
for 12 months          23"785 inches of         rain,   and Mr.

for the same period are 23-020. (The snow which fell in this
period is excluded from both these numerical statements.) The
depth of rain appears pretty nearly uniform over the broad
vale of York, and even beyond it. Thus at Ackworth, 25
miles S.W., the quantity collected in 1832                                 = 24-9t
At Brandsby, 12 miles N.                                 level with the
   top of  York                    (station     nearly
At York
                       Minster)                                            25-65
                                                                           23-78*

I4. shall now proceed to arrange the numerical results of
the experiments, in relation to mean temperature and the
        of the                                           the ratios of quantity
season            year, and        thence     to infer   of snow which fell is
at the  several    stations.                 quantity
                                    The
always deducted, because it was found to drift into the lower
gauge. This quantity was, however, very small and only sen
sible in February 1833.

        Period*.            Mean          On On On                         Ratios.
                            Temp.  Minster.     Museum.  Ground.
                                   In. of Rain. In. of Rain. In. of Rain.

7 coldest months, -1        48-20  15-715       20182    23-785 66-1 85-3 100
                            40-8     7-089       9-725   12-079 58-6 80-5 100
Oct., Nov., Dec., 1
JJan., Feb., Mar., f        55-5   11146        13-609

April                       39-3    4-569         6-414
7 warmest months, -\        58-5     8-626      10-457
                            36-3     1-626
April, May, June, 1         47-6    3- 144        2-326  15-666 71-2 87-1 100
.... JJuly, Aug., Sept., C  60-8     6-264        4-202
                            48-3     4-681        7-414
October                                           6-240
5 coldest months, -i
                                                         8119 56-2 79
Nov., Dec., Jan.^ L                                                                 100

Feb., March . . J
5 warmest months, -*

May, June, July, L                                       11-706 73-7 89-2 100

Aug., September J
Winter quarter,        1
Dec., Jan., Feb. /                                       3-297 49-3 70-5 100

Spring quarter,        )                                 5-256 59-8 80              100
Mar., April, May J
Summer quarter, 1
June, July, Aug. J                                       8121 77-1 92-5 100

Autumn quarter, -l                                       7111 65-8 87-7 100
Sept., Oct., Nov. /

·  In 1833,       The  Museum      gauge  gave                    22-959 inches.
                  Mr.                                             23060
                       J. Gray's
                  Dr. Wasse, at Moat Hall, (10 miles from         23-895

                  York)
406                   THIRD REPORT 1838.

5. The first remark which I shall make on these results is,
that the diminution of the quantity of rain received at different

heights above the ground, as compared with that received on
the ground, is very accurately represented by a simple formula
involving one constant, viz. the square root of the height of

the station above the ground, and one variable coefficient.

  Thus, m V h = the diminution of rain at the given height.
In these experiments
     V h for the Minster gauge = V 2 12-833 = 14-5885
     Vfor the Museum gauge =       4-3-666 = 6-6080

Taking m = 2'29, we have for the whole year,
                      calculation
     Ratios                                66-0  84-91
             {BByy observation             66-1  85-3
     For the 7 coldest months      (m = 2'88,)
             By calculation                58    81

(ByBy observation                  58-6          80-5
     For the 7 warmest months ( m = 1-97.)
             By calculation ,      71-3          87-0
             By observation                      87-1   > to  100.
                                   ri-2
     For the 5 coldest months (m = 3-06,)
                      calculation . . . 55'4     79-8
             By observation . . 56 -2
     For the 5 warmest months {m = 1 -75,)       79

             By calculation . . . 74-5           88-4

             By observation . . 73-7             89-2.

In these, which are the longest averages attainable from the

experiments, there is an almost exact agreement between
the calculated and the observed results, the greatest error

beIinngsTh«oTrtthe. r averages of three months, and, indeed, though
less exactly, in every single month when much rain fell, we
may recognise the same constant relation. Thus we have
     For the summer quarter (m = 1"43,)
             By calculation .      79-0          90-5
             By observation
                                   77-1          92-5
     For the winter quarter (m 3-79,)
             By calculation .      44-6          74-7
             By observation                      70-5 > to 100.
                                   49-3          81*1
     For the spring quarter (m = 2-84,)          80'0
                  By calculation . . . 58*6
             By observation . . 59-8             85-4
     ...For the autumn quarter (m = 2-19,)       87'7
             By calculation        68" 1
             By observation . . 65"8
                TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.            .407

   The three most rainy months of the year 1832 were June,
August, and November.

For June we have,                           776    90-1
             By calculation .                      93-2
             By observation                 77-6
                                            77-9   90-1
For August,                                        89-8
             By calculation .               70-2
             By observation                 66-3   86-8
                                                   90-7
For November,
             By calculation .
             By observation

   6. From these comparisons it appears to follow, that though
the exact relation between the diminution of rain and the
height of the station can hardly be considered as satisfactorily
determined by the experiments of twelve months, the nature

of this relation is so far ascertained that we may conclude it
to be constant for all periods of the year, and that the form

>/ h is a good first approximation.
7. The account of Dr. Heberden's experiments on West
minster Abbey                         elevation of the stations ;
                does  not state  the  square part of the roof at
yet if we take   the             the
                      height of
about 120 feet, and from this infer, according to the formula,
the height of the house-top which was the middle station above
the point below the house-top which was the lowest station,
we shall still be able to use those experiments as a check upon
the law of the ratio now given. In this case, */ h = 1 1 "0
and 4*6, and we have

For the whole year,   = 4-23)                              1
By calculation (m                                  80-5
By observation                        .  .  53'5   80-5
                                            53-5
For the 7 coldest months,                          80-4.
By calculation (m = 4-26) .                 53-1   80*5
By observation                              53
For the 7 warmest months,                          81'9 V to 100.
By calculation (m = 3-90) .                 57-1   82
By observation                              57
For the 5 coldest months,                          78-3
By calculation (m = 4-70) .                 4-8-3  78,0
By observation                              48-6
For the 5 warmest months,                          8(H>
By calculation (m = 4-19)                   53-9   80
By observation                              54*5
    408        THIRD REPORT 1833.

         For the winter quarter,
               By calculation (to = 4-42) . 51 -4
               By observation         51 -5        79-6
                                                   79-5
         For the summer quarter,
               By calculation (m = 4- 14) . 55-5   808
               By observation         52-7
                                                   82-6 > to 100.
         For the spring quarter,
               By calculation (m = 4-92) . 45-9    77-2
               *By observation          48         75-1

         For the autumn quarter,                   82-9
               By calculation (m = 371) . 59-2     84-3
               By observation           57 -8

    It is therefore probable that the Westminster results obey the
    same constant relation to height as those of York.

       8. But it is evident that the values of the variable coefficient

    are very different ; that its maxima and minima are perhaps

    not quite in the same periods of the year as at York ; and
               range of variation in  its value is very much less.
    that the   Arago's determination
                                       of the relative quantities of
    From M.
    rain falling on the Observatory at Paris and in the court 28
    metres below, as given by Professor Forbes, in his Report on
    Meteorology, 50-47 : 56-37, the relative mean value of m at
    Paris = 1 -24, while at Westminster it was 4-23, at York 2-29.
    It must be owned that these discrepancies with other obser
    vations as respects the quantity of the diminution of rain up
    wards are somewhat discouraging, and probably will, for a
    considerable time, deprive the most exact local determinations
    of this quantity of a general application. This, indeed, could
    hardly be expected, since the whole quantity of rain is so va
    riously dependent on circumstances of physical geography,
    that centuries have been found insufficient to determine the
    general law and ascertain the numerical constants of local
    climate. Yet, on account of the remarkable regularity of the
    progress of monthly temperature at York, and some very ob

    Ivious relations between the quantities of rain collected and

    the mean temperature of the period, will venture to state
    what seem unavoidably to suggest themselves as probable in
    ferences.
    9. First, it is obvious that the diminution at the upper sta
    tions is greatest in the cold season, and least in the warm

    season, and therefore the coefficient is in some way inversely
    dependent on the temperature, or on some effect of this tem-

               · March very anomalous.

-X
             TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                           409

Ifperature.  we consider it in relation to the mean tempera-

ture, we shall find a near coincidence between the following
                                                e
formula, and observation : m =        if  +  a        where      a=  the
                                                t'3,

ascertained value of m, for the whole year, t the mean tempe
rature of the year, and t'l that of the particular period under

consideration.

                                      Value of in     by obs.    Difference.
                                         by calc.
                                                                    010
For the  7 colder months . .    40-8  = 2-98          = 2-88
                                                                    0-10
         7 warmer months. .     55-5       1-87           1-97
                                                                    010
         5 colder months . .    393       316            306        000

         5 warmer months. .     58-5       1-74            1-74      0-22
                                                                     0-49
         Winter quarter. . . .  363       357            379        021
         Spring quarter. . . .  476       235             284
                                                                    011
         Summer quarter . .     60-8       1-64            1-43
         Autumn quarter . .
                                483       230             219

10. Secondly, it is obvious that the relation between the
values of m and the dryness of the air is inverse. This dry
ness is usually expressed by the difference between the mean
temperature and the mean dew point, and where the latter is
perfectly determined, no better plan perhaps can be suggested.
But this is the case for very few places in Great Britain. There
is, however, another mode of expressing the dryness of the air,

which is fortunately applicable to the present purpose ; the
mean range of daily temperature, or mean difference of maxima
and minima, is a good approximation to an accurate expression

of the relative dryness of the air. The following table of the
mean ranges of temperature near York has been determined

with the greatest nicety, by long averages, from the careful
and continued observations of Francis Cholmeley, Esq., of

Brand sby.

January mean range. ... 8-0           July mean range            19-6

February     101 August                                          17-7

March        13-1                     September                  16-0

April        162 October                                         118

May          19-7                     November                       9-0

June         20-1                     December                       7-7

            General mean range                        14-08

   On comparing these numbers with Mr. Daniell's estimates of
the dryness of the air in London, they will be found analogous
    440               THIRD REPORT--- 1833.

    in general proportions. They may also be compared with an
    excellent series of dew point observations in the Manchester
    Memoirs by my friend Mr. John Blackwall, whose results in
    other respects 1 have found remarkably in accordance with my
    own inferences concerning the climate of York.
    Now, let m be taken inversely as the mean range of tempe

    rature, (r) or m = a              - we shall have the following

    comparison between    the calculated                  and observed values.
    (a = 2-29.)

                                      Value of m          Value of <
                                             calc.              obs. Difference.

    For the 7 coldest months .          2-98              :2-88   010
                                        1-86                      01 1
                   7 warmest months     3-36                1-97  030
                                        1-73                      000
                  5 warmest months .                       306    005
                                        374                       036
                 5 wannest months                          1-73   025
               Winter quarter . .       2-48                      044
                 Spring quarter. . .    1-68               379
                   Summer quarter .
                 Autumn quarter .       263                2-84

                                                           1-43

                                                           219

    So remarkable and continued an accordance between the co

    efficients fixed by observation and those derived by two methods
    from a very simple view of the condition of the air as to heat
    and moisture, appears to me decisive of the question as to
    the general cause of the variation
    of rain at any one height above     of   thgeroquunadn.tityItohf adsimainlruetaiodny

                                        the

    been shown how strictly the observations warrant the con
                      trhaetiowhoofledimyienaurt.ionItat   different heights is
    clusion that the                                      is therefore rather    con
    stant through                                                                as a
    Imatter of very probable inference than a plausible speculation

    that offer the hypothesis, that the whole difference in the
    quantity of rain, at different heights above the surface of the
    neighbouring ground, is caused by the continual augmentation
    of each drop of rain from the commencement to the end of its
    descent, as it traverses successively the humid strata of air at
    a temperature so much lower than that of the surrounding me
    dium as to cause the deposition of moisture upon its surface.
    This hypothesis takes account of the length of descent, because
    in passing through more air more moisture would be gathered ;
    it agrees with the fact that the augmentation for given lengths

    of descent is greatest in the most humid seasons of the year ;
    it accounts to us for the greater absolute size of rain-drops in

-S
                     TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS. -                                -HI

the hottest months and near the ground, as compared with
those in the winter and on mountains ; finally, it is almost an
inevitable consequence from what is known of the gradation of
temperature in the atmosphere, that some effect of this kind
must necessarily take place. The very common observation
of the cooling of the air at the instant of the fall of rain, the
fact of small hail or snow whitening the mountains, while the
very same precipitations fall as cold rain in the valleys where
                                                                      freezing, is
the   dew   point    maAy  be many          degrees   above           dependence    enough
to   prove    this.         converse         proof
                                                     of the                          of the
quantity of rain at different heights on the state of the air at
those heights, is found in the rarer occurrence of a shower
falling from         cloud,          bIutcadnisnsootlvfionrgbeinatro   the air without reaching
the ground.   a      Lastly,                                          remarking, that this hy

pothesis of augmentation of size of the elementary drops
agrees with the result that the increase of quantity of rain for
equal lengths of descent is greatest near the ground ; for
whether the augmentation of each drop be in proportion to its
surface or its bulk, the consequence must be an increasing
rate of augmentation of its quantity as it approaches the

ground.
   The direct mathematical solution of this problem, now that
the laws of cooling and of the distribution of temperature have

undergone such repeated scrutiny, may perhaps be attempted
with success ; but for the purpose of eliminating the effects of
periodical or local modifying causes, it is desirable that obser
                                            should be instituted
vstaatniotnsplaocnest,h--e bsaomthe   plan  the coasts and in the     ianttemriaonry, --anind  di
                                     along                                                     the
humid atmosphere of Cornwall and in the drier air of the mid
land counties. Always, at least three stations should be chosen,
as open as possible, one of them very near to the ground :
their relative heights, the mean temperatures, the mean
ranges of temperature, and the mean dew point for each

month should be ascertained. It would be useful to measure
the size of the rain-drops, and, if possible, their own tempe
rature. The height of clouds, according to the plan of Mr.
Dalton, in his Meteorological Essays, and the direction and
force of wind should                            tahnedseddisattiancItihoanvse
snow, hail, and rain.                be noted,                                 made between
                                                                                not yet found
                                      Some of
              of procuring,
the means     time required,                panadrtlpyairntlycofrnosmequtheencdeiffiocuf lttyheofgwreealtl
labour and
arranging the experiments themselves. But since it is now
ascertained that the general results follow some settled laws,
                                     may be very well
and that    the effects               only to procure                 appreciated  at moderate
heights,                                                              these, but   also several
            I hope not
412 THIRD REPORT -- 1833.

other data towards the completion of the theory of this curious
subject, the patient investigation of which cannot fail to give
us new and penetrating views into the constitution of the at

mosphere.

II. PHILOSOPHICAL INSTRUMENTS AND
                MECHANICAL ARTS.

On a peculiar Source  of   Error in Experiments with the Dip
   ping Needle. By         Rev. William Scoresby, F.R.S.
                      the

Certain discrepancies, at the time apparently unaccountable,
in observations made with a beautiful dipping-needle, by Dol-
lond, entrusted to Mr. Scoresby's care by the Board of Lon
gitude, in an arctic voyage, led him, after a considerable interval
of time, to reflect upon the cause. Whatever might be the
apparent consistency of any particular series of observations
in the ordinary use of the instrument, the differences perceived
when the poles of the needle were changed indicated that
the preceding results were not accurate. But as the different
results thus obtained were capable of being combined for ob
                    true position of the needle, the  formula of Professor
Jt.ainTinogbiathse  Meyer, given in his treatise      De Usu accuratiori
Acds Inclinatorice Magnettcm, was adopted for this purpose.

To verify the position thus obtained, another series of obser
vations on the same spot was then made, with one of the arms
of the needle weighted, so as to render its position more de
cisive from being the resultant of two forces, gravity and
magnetic attraction. The results, however, of the different
series were again anomalous ; but the cause of the discrepancies
thus observed not being fully apprehended at the time, the
consequence was that the observations were set aside for want
of consistency.
Subsequently, however, it occurred to the author that the
cause of the discrepancies was to be found in the alteration of
the magnetic intensity of the needle when the polarity was
changed ; a circumstance furnishing a new element in these
calculations, not hitherto, he believes, taken into account. For
when the poles of the dipping needle are changed, (unless
magnetized with extraordinary care and some perseverance in
repeating the process,) the magnetic intensity of both positions
will not be the same. It is indeed a fact which the author fre
quently observed, that the capacity of a properly tempered
steel bar for the magnetic power (provided it have been kept a
considerable time in the same magnetic condition,) is the great
                          TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                        413

est when the polarity is preserved in the usual way, and of
consequence loses in intensity of                      directive
polarity is changed. This effect,                                       force whenever the
                                                       --thwehn,ichif,  the needle be not
perfectly  cbaanlanbceedexpaencdtesdustpoenbdee, d--,                   strictly speaking, it
scarcely                                               must necessarily follow, that

the calculated position, by the usual formulae, derived from
observations made with the needle in opposite conditions of
polarity, will not give the true direction of the magnetic force.
For wherever there is any defect in accuracy of suspension,
balancing, or
by two forces,            a--djuthsatmt eonft,matghneenticthdeirenceteidolne,  being acted upon
                                                                               depending on its

magnetic intensity, and gravitation, depending on the horizontal

laoexpvieesr,raa--tgineigtsoifpnotfhlsueietincocenenstw.reill,oBfougftrcaoivfuitrwyseit,ohfbtoehneethnedeierrdeelsceutlitoiannntreosfpoefthcttehetopottlwehose
the magnetic intensity be less than in the other, then the re
sultant of the combined forces must change its direction from
the preponderating of gravitation there ; and, consequently,
the effect of gravitation will not be neutralized by the ordinary
mode of mutual correction, because of the relations of that
force to the directive being changed. Of this, an example
taken from arithmetical means will be sufficient for illustration.
Suppose the dip, as determined by the mean of various ob
servations in the usual position of the needle, to be, say 70°,
and the result on inversion of poles be 72°, then the actual
dip will evidently not be the arithmetical mean of 71°, neither
the mean of the tangents of 70° and 72°, that is, 71° 3', unless
the magnetic intensity be in both cases precisely the same. But
as the intensity in the original direction of the polarity would,
probably, be very considerably greater than the other*, the
real dip might be 70° 50', or even 70° 40', rather than 71° !
Hence, for                       of result in          such cases, a new element
seems to be          accuracy   -- that of the         relative magnetic intensities
                     requisite
                      of        poles of the needle under                      each condition of
poor laproiwtyer--s       the   observing the number of                        vibrations of the
                     and    by
needle in a given time, in each state of polarity, these reduced
to actual intensities would afford an element as a corrective for
the source of error herein under consideration.

· The difference of intensity on changing the poles will be the most consider
able in the hardest-tempered needles, or in cases where the fixedness of the axis
renders the best modes of magnetizing impracticable.                           In soft bars, or where

very powerful magnets are used, the differences from this cause become com
paratively trifling, and sometimes altogether disappear; but still there is no
security without verification, that in any case the intensities of the changed
poles will be the same.

                                                                                                                                                                s
414                               THIRD REPORT 1833.

On MthielleCorn,sFtr.uGc.tSio.,n  of a New   Barometer. By    the Rev. W.     H.
                                              of Mineralogy,
                                  Professor                   Cambridge.

This barometer consists of two tubes, of equal diameter, a
little longer than the greatest height and greatest range of the
barometric column respectively, terminating in a small cistern,
the bottom of which can be elevated or depressed by a screw.
The long tube is bent so that the upper part of which         it,
                                                                               a is
closed at the end and has a fine point of glass or steel fixed
        axis, may coincide with                    prolongation of the
in its  which open at the end.               the  graduated scale slides      short
tube,                                                                         along
it                                           A
a vernier attached to the frame of the instrument, in such
                      ismanner that a steel point fixed to the lower end of the scale
may move in the axis of the short tube.
   In making an observation with this instrument, the bottom
of the cistern must be elevated or depressed till the surface of
the mercury in the long tube touches the fixed point therein
                                                                              :

the moveable point on the scale being then brought down till
touches the surface of the mercury in the short tube, the
height of the barometric column indicated by the division of
the scale opposite to zero on the vernier. The barometer maya is
be rendered portable by placing stopcock between the short
tube and the cistern.

  On a Barometer with an enlarged Scale. By William L.is
                                 Wharton.
                                             is
   In this barometer a light fluid introduced upon the top of
the mercurial column of the common barometer, the tube of
the instrument being enlarged at the point of junction of the
two fluids, by which device an instrument of equal or superior
extent of scale may be obtained, without the expense and dif
ficulty attendant upon the construction and erection of a baro
meter of which the whole tube occupied by the light fluid.
Mr. Wharton has employed an instrument of this construction
for twelve years without perceiving that its sensibility at all

impaired.
                                                                              is
   On the CWonislltiraucmtionSnoofwaHnaerwrisW, hFee.Rl .BSa.,ro$m·<er.ter. Byis         is

   The tube of this instrument 0-5 of an inch in diametera
within, bent in siphon form at one end, and at the other ex
panded into a flattened spheroidal bulb, whose diameter
four inches, and axis, in the direction of the tube, two inches.
TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.  415

The straight part of the tube, exclusive of the bulb, is 32
inches ; inclusive of the bulb, 34 ; the recurved end is bent
twice at right angles, so as to project from the tube 3
inches, and rise parallel thereto 7-5 inches. The tube is at
tached to a mahogany support, the spheroidal bulb being up
wards ; and the quantity of mercury is so adjusted in the tube
that at mean pressures the upper level is nearly coincident
with the greatest diameter of the spheroid, and the lower is
near the middle of the shorter leg.

   There is a circle of brass, divided into 1000 parts, fixed to
the front of a light copper drum or case, having a glass front
and back, the centre of which circle is placed just over the
orifice of the glass tube : a small frame of brass is fixed to the
circle behind, so as to carry a light horizontal axis bearing two
small pulleys. The extremities of this axis are turned to ex
tremely fine pivots, and are set in small jewels : the front one
projects forward so as to carry a light index of straw, which is
sustained on a small brass ring, placed by means of a socket on
the extremity of the axis, in the manner of the hand of a watch.
The two small pulleys above mentioned carry, by means of
fine untwisted silk threads, two small cones of glass or wood,
one of which rests on the surface of the mercury in the recurved
tube, the other hangs freely on the outside of the tube. These
cones are nearly equal in weight, that resting on the mercury
being rather the heavier of the two. This slight difference of
weight, setting aside the inertia and friction of the axis, is the
amount of the resistance which the rising or falling of the mer
cury in the tube has to contend with ; and this is all extremely
little, so little that the index moves by the unequal action of
the wind during a light gale, and is put into a state of oscil
lation of some considerable duration by the mere opening of
the door of a room. These pulleys measure very nearly one

inch in circumference, so that if the mercury moves an inch

the index is carried once round the brass circle, and hence one

division thereon corresponds to 1555th of an inch, a correction
being made on the pulley according to the relative capacity of
the tube and the bulb.

   The index is made in three parts, of light straws, a centre
piece and two extreme pieces inserted into it : one extremity
is cut after the manner of a pen to a somewhat short and very
fine point, which is turned edgeways. The whole is carefully
equipoised by a short piece of straw sliding on one of the ex
treme pieces, so that when attached to the axis it takes indif
ferently any position in the circle, and, consequently, follows
exactly the movement of the mercury.
416 THIRD REPORT -- 1833.

  A varnished paper is pasted on the front of the tube, marked
27, 28, 29, 30, &c, to denote the height of the mercurial co
lumn in inches ; these measures being taken with care from the
surface of mercury in the bulb to that in the tube. The index
is set as nearly as possible when the altitude corresponds to
fixed divisions of the scale or measure.
   There is a thermometer close to the mercurial column, the
bulb of which is placed in a small cistern of mercury, to indi

cate the temperature, and a hygrometer to measure the change
which may be supposed to happen in the silk line, to which
the cone resting on the mercury is attached ; but the author
has found that by employing fine unspun silk the changes are

quite unimportant.
The quantity of mercury in the instrument is about 15 lbs.
In order      fill the tube  clear of air,
          to                 for boiling.   Athsemafolllloirwoningcapp,ropceoslisshweads,
adopted   as  a substitute
was first cemented air-tight upon the end of the tube, and into
this was screwed an iron stopcock : a long glass tube was then

cemented to the stopcock, furnished with iron caps, &c, so

that by reverting the instrument and steadying the tubes by
cross-bars of wood, tied with silk-ribbon band, the whole may
be screwed into the plate of a good air-pump.

   The air being withdrawn as completely as a good air-pump
will effect, the cock is closed, the whole is detached from the

pump, the long tube removed, and the barometer tube trans
ferred to a cistern of mercury, under the surface of which the
stopcock is fairly immersed, whilst the tube is inclined as much
as possible. The operator, being placed in a convenient position,
supports the ball of the tube in lus band, and turns the cock

gradually, so as to allow the mercury to be pressed up in an
extremely small stream into the tube, and to flow down without

violence into the ball. During this process the ball is gently
moved about with an easy circular motion, which allows of the
              union of the mercury and displacement of the     air.
more speedy   should be ready to close the cock occasionally,  for

An assistant
the purpose of examining the state of the mercurial mass
within the tube.
   In this way the barometer tube may be filled with great

nicety, so as to show a most resplendent surface, equal in ap
pearance to that produced by boiling even under a powerful
magnifying glass.
   When the tube is complete to the point required, the stop
cock is again closed, the whole is reverted, and the tube is

placed in its intended place ; the cock is then opened by de
grees, and the mercury will gradually descend to the level of
       TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.            417

the atmospheric pressure. The iron stopcock and cap may
now be removed, by cautious application of first a warm and
then a hot iron rod to the cement.

   The mercury intended for the purpose of the barometer
should be first distilled, and then well agitated, about an ounce
or less at a time, in phials capable of holding one ounce and a
half. Previously to introducing the mercury into the tube it
should be well boiled in a crucible, of porcelain or Wedgwood
ware, and should be used just before getting cold, at a tempe
rature of 90° or 100°, the tube of the barometer being also
made a little warm by careful exposure to a charcoal fire.

   The process now described is believed by the author to be,
when carefully performed, in every respect equal to that of
boiling. The wheel-barometer made in this way has been com
pared with other instruments with boiled tubes and of un
doubted excellence, amongst others with a fine mountain baro
meter on Gay-Lussac and Renard's principle, which had been
compared with the standard of the Royal Society in Somerset
House, and with that in the observatory at Paris. The dif
ferences from this instrument, when both were placed in the
same room, were very minute. It is found to be more sensible
than a very finely boiled tube, carefully prepared by that emi
nent maker Mr. Cox, of Plymouth, with a scale and vernier
divided to woth of an inch, set up in an adjoining room.

On a   JnoewhnMNetehwomd aonf,  Constructing a  Portable Barometer.
                                 Mathematical   Instrument Maker.
  By

The object of this construction is to make barometers port
able without the use of a leather bag, which has always been
a defective part of the instrument.
The method adopted is to have a cylindrical cistern of iron
in two parts, rather longer than usual, the upper part, or
chamber, or that to which the cap is fastened, which connects
to the tube, being about three times the length of the lower
part, of the same diameter, moving round upon a pin, and
secured by a screw and collar. The two chambers thus formed
communicate internally in one situation by means of holes in
the divisions, through which the mercury flows upon invert
ing the instrument. The vacant space, or that intended to
receive the mercury from the tube when the barometer falls, is,
when the instrument is in use, in the upper part of the upper
cistern, the lower one being full. Upon inverting the instru
ment, the mercury' flows from the latter into the former, which
                                2e
1833.
418                          THIRD REPORT 1833.

becoming filled, is by a quarter turn of the one now upper
most cut off from communication with it, and the instrument
is rendered portable with the end of the tube dipping into a
cistern of mercury, which is perfectly secure.

   By this method Mr. Newman is enabled to make portable
mountain barometers with very large tubes, for sufficient room
can be left in the cistern to receive the mercury which flows
from the tube into the cistern in high situations, notwithstand
ing the increased diameter of the tube. Barometers, therefore,
can be made and transported, which when put up may be de
pended upon as standard instruments with perfect security.

On an Instrument             fRfoo.rrS.m,aeaFgs.iuGvrei.nnSg.,timthPeer. otfoetBsasylorhtehaoetfinRgeCvhE.effmeJacismttreyos,f
  the Sun's Rays

  Cumming, V.P.

Cambridge.

   It has appeared to Professor Cumming that the information

conveyed to us by the ordinary instruments for measuring the
heating power of the sun's rays is, in one respect, imperfect,
in as much as these instruments indicate only the momentary
energy of the rays : he was therefore led to devise a process
which should measure the total result of their action in a given
time. The process employed is to expose to the sun a retort
with a blackened bulb containing aether, and to note the quan

tities of this liquid distilled over in different days. In some
cases, a second bulb of plain glass has been used to increase

the condensing surface, and the apparatus has been otherwise

modified. With instruments on this plan Professor Cumming
has registered the daily effects of the sun's radiation for more
than two years, and he hopes soon to publish his results in a

connected form.

On some Electro-magnetic Instruments. By the Rev. James
  Cumming, V.P.R.S., Professor of Chemistry, Cambridge.

The instruments exhibited and explained by Professor Cum
        consisted of:
ming                         of four spirals, similar to that     described
    1.  A galvanometer

in his translation of Demonferrand, (pi.            v. fig. 86,)  but formed
offlattened copper wire with silk ribbon            interposed,   each spiral
        AfixBerdeguupeotn's
being                        a graduated slide.  a  conducting    wire  passed
   2.                         thermometer, with

through its axis, for the purpose of measuring either the heat
evolved by different galvanic arrangements in passing through
a given wire, or that evolved in different wires by the same
battery.
TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                            4-19

On the Thermostat, or Heat-governor, a self-acting physical
AUprpea,raMtu.sD.,foFr.R.rSeg.,ul&atcin. g Temperature.  By Andrew

    This instrument acts by the unequal expansion of different
metals in combination : it admits of many modifications of ex
 ternal form, but, in all, the metallic bars must possess such force
 of flexure in heating or cooling as to enable their working rods
 or levers to open or shut valves, stopcocks, and ventilating
orifices.

    Steel and zinc are the two metals employed : they possess a
great difference of expansiveness, nearly as two to five, and
are sufficiently cheap to enter into the composition of ther
mostatic apparatus ; but zinc has in reference to the present
object one property which should be corrected. After being
many times heated and cooled, a rod of that metal remains
permanently elongated. This property may, however, be in
a great measure destroyed, and considerable rigidity acquired
by alloying it with four or five per cent, of copper and one of
tin. Such an alloy is hard, close-grained, elastic, and very
expansible, and therefore suits pretty well for making the more
expansible bar of a thermostat.

   Let a bar of zinc or of this alloy be cast, about an inch in
breadth, one quarter of an inch thick, and two feet long, and
let it be firmly and closely riveted along its face to the face of
a similar bar of steel of about one third the thickness. The
product of the rigidity and strength of each bar should be
nearly the same, so that the texture of each may pretty equally
resist the strains of flexure. Having provided a dozen such
compound bars, let them be united in pairs by a hinge-joint at
each of their ends, having the steel bars inwards. At ordinary
temperatures the steel plates of such a pair of compound bars
will be parallel and nearly in contact, but when heated they
will bend outwards, receding from each other at their middle
parts, like two bows tied together at their ends. Supposing
this recession to be one inch for 180° Fahrenheit, then six such
pairs of bows, connected together in an open frame with
rabbeted end plates, and with a guide rod playing through a
hole in the centre of each, will produce an effective aggregate
motion of six inches, being half an inch for every 15° Fahr.,
or 81° C. Instead of limiting ourselves to half a dozen such
pairs of compound bars, we may readily lodge in a slender iron
frame a score or two of them, so as to furnish as great a range
of motion as can be desired for most purposes of heat regu

                                                  2E2
420 THIRD REPORT -- 1833.

lation ; and the power of pressure or impulsion may be in
creased, if necessary, by increasing somewhat the thickness of
each component lamina. One extremity of the series must
obviously be firmly abutted against a solid fulcrum or bearing,
while the opposite extremity gives motion to a working-rod of
a suitable kind.

   The author of the communication then describes in detail
the various mechanical adjustments by which the apparatus
may be applied to maintain any determined rate of ventilation
through the casements of church windows ; to give alarm and
open valves in water-cisterns in case of fire ; to preserve a cer
tain rate of combustion in furnaces, a uniform temperature in
baths and stills, and to act as a safety-valve for a steam-

engine.

On a Reflecting Telescope. By Thomas Davison, of Low

                               Brunton, near Alnwick.

    The author of the invention described in this communication
is a weaver of linen, who has devoted himself with great per
severance and ingenuity to the construction of telescopes and
other instruments. The modification of the ordinary con
struction of a reflecting telescope which Thomas Davison has
executed is intended to improve the performance of the in
strument by diminishing the false or aberrant light which in
 terferes with the distinctness of the image.

    From the nature of its construction, the Gregorian telescope
is most exposed to this defect, and it is, therefore, to that form
of the instrument that the invention more particularly applies.
To each reflector tubes are adapted, having their axes coin
cident with that of the mirrors, and their free ends directed
 towards each other. The tube connected to the great speculum
enters the hole of that speculum, and is of a slightly conical
 form, diminishing outwards, and prolonged to such a degree as,
without stopping many of the rays which should meet in the
 image, to prevent nearly all the false light from entering the
eye-tube. The tube connected with the small mirror is pro
longed so as to meet the extreme rays which converge from
 the great speculum towards the smaller. Constructed in this
manner, Thomas Davison's telescope was found more effective
than one upon the ordinary plan. By simple contrivances the
instrument can be converted to the Cassegrainian or Newtonian

form.
            TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                                         421

On a Steam-engine for pumping Water. ByW. L. Wharton.

In this engine the steam is admitted from the boiler upon a
deep float, occupying the top of a column of water contained in
a metallic                                           flue of the boiler             The
lower part  coyflinthdeerc, olpulmacnedofinwathteer                        fire.
                                                      is connected by    pipes    to the
under side of a piston, moving water-tight in a much smaller
cylinder, fixed immediately above the pumps of any mine, to
the rods of which is affixed the piston rod. By this arrange
ment the steam always acts upon a heated surface, and its
power is applied to the pump rods without the intervention of a
main beam, parallel motion, &c, and, consequently, without any
expense for frame-work and buildings requisite for their support
in other engines. The friction of this engine, moreover, is very
           paistsotrna.tumAorfodoilorbewinirge  introduced both
trifling,                                        is attached to  above and be
low the                                                          the float, and,

passing through a stuffing box in the top of the large cylinder,
works the hand gear at the proper periods after the admission
and escape of the steam, and consequent depression and ele
vation of the water and float, within that cylinder. A condensing
apparatus may be added, by which the atmosphere may be
rendered available, in addition to the weight of the pump rods,
to force down the piston in the small cylinder, and, conse
quently, the water and float to the top of the large cylinder,
after each stroke of the engine.

On the Application           of a   glass Balance-spring                 to Chrono
                    meters.  By
                                   Edward John Dent.

   Mr. Dent described the various difficulties in the con
struction of chronometers dependent on the imperfection of
metallic balance-springs, whether made of gold, or of soft or
hardened steel ; and explained the advantages which may be
expected to arise from the substitution of some substance pos
sessed of greater and more regular elasticity. Glass appeared
a substance likely to answer this condition, and when formed
into a cylindrical spring, it promised, from the trials that had
been made, to be both accurate and durable. An instrument
was exhibited with the glass spring in movement.

On the Effect of Impact on Beams. By Eaton Hodgkinson.
   The author gave the results of some inquiries into the power

of beams to resist impulsive forces. The experiments were
     422                           THIRD REPORT 1833.

     made by means of a cast-iron ball, 44 lbs. weight, suspended
     by a cord from the top of a room with a radius of 16 feet. The
     ball, when hanging freely, just touched laterally an uniform
     bar of cast-iron, sustained at its ends in a horizontal position
     by supports under it and behind              four feet asunder. The
     1.

       it
                                                             it,

                                                                       :a

                                                                            it

                                                                                                      a
     intention was to strike the bar, sometimes in the middle and
     sometimes half-way between the middle and one end, with im
     pacts obtained by drawing the ball and letting fall through
     given arcs, shifting the bar when the place of impact was to
     be changed, and obtaining the deflections of the bar at that
              by measuring the depth which long peg, touching the
     Slbaaccek of the bar, had been driven by the blow into mass of
     clay placed there. The results were

            The deflections were nearly as the chords of the arcs
     through which the weight was drawn, that is, as the velocities
     of impact.
        2. The same impact was required to break the beam, whe
     ther was struck in the middle, or half-way between the middle

     and one end.
     8. When the impacts in the middle and half-way between
     that and the end were the same, the deflection at the latter
     place was to that at the former nearly as three to four, which
     would be the case the locus of ultimate curvature, from suc
                               if
     cessive impacts in every part, was a parabola.
        The preceding deductions the author had found to agreea
     with theoretical conclusions, depending on the suppositions,
                         form of
     (1.)  that    the                      beam  bent by        small impacts                           was the
     same    as         had been        bent by   pressure       through equal                           spaces
                 if
     and (2.) that the ball and beam, where struck, proceeded toa it          is
     gether after impact as one mass. These suppositions likewise:
     gave as below                                                                                ;
     4. The power of heavy beam to resist impact
                                   a                                                                     to the

     power of very light one, as the sum of the inertias of the
     striking body and of the beam to the inertia of the striking
                                                  is
     body.                                                    a
     5. The time required to produce deflection, and conse
     quently the time of an impact, between the same bodies,
                                                                                                         is

     always the same, whether the impact be great or small. The
     time, moreover,               inversely as the square root of the stiffness
                               is

     of the beam.
     6. The results of calculations, comparing pressure with im
     pact, gave deflections agreeing with the observed ones, within
     an error of about one eighth or one ninth of the results.

~*X
               TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                                 428

On        the  direct  tensile   Strength of  Cast    Iron.              By

                           E.   HODGKINSON.

   The absolute strength of this metal, notwithstanding the

Ifextensive use made of it in the arts, is still a matter of doubt.

    we turn for information to authors, we find Mr. Tredgold
and Dr. Robison making it nearly three times as great as Mr.
Rennie or Captain Brown, and the advocate of the greater
strength (Tredgold) attributing the less strength, as found by
the others, to the straining force not having been kept in the
centre of the prism. For supposing the extensions and com

pressions to continue always equal from equal forces (which they
are under slight strains), a small deviation from a central strain

would make a great reduction in the strength ; and if the force

were applied along the side of a square piece, the strength
would be reduced to one fourth. (Tredgold, Art. 61, 62. 234.)

   The above contrariety of opinion was the cause of the fol
lowing experiments, in which the utmost care was taken to
keep the straining force along the centre of the castings, which
had their transverse sections of the form + , except in the
last two experiments, in which the section of the castings was
rectangular, and the force applied exactly along the side. The
iron was of a strong kind, the same as in the author's expe
riments on beams (Manchester Memoirs, vol. v.), and was broken
by a machine on Captain Brown's principle for testing iron

cables.

                                 Force up the middle.

Experi    Area of section   Breaking weight  Strength per square inch in tons.
ments.                            in tons.
            in parts of an
       1           inch.
      2
      3        3-012            22-5         7-47 1   Ton..
     4
               2-97             210          707 Vmean 7-65.
               3031
               2-95             25-5         8-41 J
                                             6-59 Different quality of iron.
                                19-5

                       Force along the side.

Experi    Area of section. Breaking weight.          Strength per inch.
ments.
               483              11-5         \2-38    mmeoa.nnJ2°f6i92.
      5        4-815            13-75
     6                                       2-855 )
4£4         THIRD REPORT 1833.

Whence the strength of a rectangular piece of cast iron
drawn along the side is rather more than one third of 7-f-
tons, its strength, as above found, to bear a central strain

(2-62 i)\for ^ > ; but from the preceding remarks it ought

only to be one fourth; and, therefore, it would appear that a
shifting of the neutral line had made the pieces capable of
bearing a greater force along the side than in their natural
state.

An Investigation of the Principle of Mr. Saxtoris locomotive
differential Pulley, and a Description of a Mode of pro
ducing rapid and uninterrupted Travelling, by means of a
Succession  of such Pulleys,  set in Motion by Horses or  by
stationary
            Steam-engines.    By John Isaac Hawkins.

   In order to a clear understanding of the operation of this
differential pulley, in the propelling of carriages or vessels, it
will be convenient to view the principle under three cases.

   Case 1st. Let the bottom spoke or radius of a wheel, rolling
on a horizontal plane, be considered as a lever.

   Let the point of contact of the wheel with the plane be the

Iffulcrum of the lever.

       a cord be fastened at one fourth of the length of the
lever above the fulcrum, and it be pulled a given distance, (say
one inch,) then the top of the lever or axis of the wheel will
be moved in the same direction four times the distance, or four

Ifinches, agreeably with the common doctrine of the lever.

        now a pulley be concentrically affixed to the wheel, and
the circumference made to meet the point in the lever where

the cord is fastened ; in other words, if the pulley be three
fourths of the diameter of the wheel, and the cord be wound

around the pulley, and be drawn horizontally in the vertical
plane of the pulley, then the wheel will run along the hori
zontal plane in the direction of the pull with a velocity equal
to four times the speed of the cord, because every point of
the circumference of the wheel as it comes in contact with the
plane becomes a new fulcrum, and the perpendicular line from
that point to the axis becomes a new lever, upon which the
cord acts at one fourth of the length of the lever above the
fulcrum, and thus a repetition of such leverage is continually
brought into action as the cord is drawn along.

   Case 2nd. Let the point where the periphery of the pulley
meets the spoke or lever, and where the cord of Case 1. was
attached, be considered the fulcrum ; and let another cord be
        TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                             425

Ifapplied to the bottom end of the lever.                         this lower cord be

drawn horizontally in the same vertical plane, but in the op
posite direction to that in which the former one was pulled,
then the top of the lever or axis of the wheel will be moved
in the same direction as before, three times the distance that

the cord passes through : thus, if the cord be pulled one inch,
the axis will be moved three inches, because the leverage is
in this case as three to one. Let the pulley be made to roll
along a horizontal plane, and the cord be passed around a
wheel concentrically attached to the pulley by the side of the
plane, the radius of which wheel is equal to the whole lever,
as was the wheel of Case 1 . ; then the cord being passed around
that wheel, and pulled, the pulley will run along the plane with
three times the velocity of the cord that draws the wheel, but
the motion will be in a direction opposite to the pull.
   Case 3rd. Let both the cords of Case 1. and Case 2. be

pulled at the same time, (say each one inch,) then the fulcrum
will necessarily be removed to a point exactly half-way between
the two cords, which fulcrum will be at one eighth of the length

of the lever from the bottom end ; and the top of the lever or
common axis of the wheel and pulley will, in this case, be

moved seven inches, being seven times the distance through
which the cords pass. The ratio of the velocity of the axis to
the cord is as the sum of the two radii of the pulley and wheel
divided by their difference.
   Now fix a spindle in the axis, and support it on a four-
wheeled travelling carriage, or on a vessel afloat upon water,
and make a groove in the wheel to constitute it a pulley, and
pass a cord around each pulley in opposite directions, and
pull both cords with equal speed, then the carriage or floating
vessel will be propelled with seven times the velocity of the
cords, in the direction in which the cord of the smaller pulley
is drawn, because the axis of the pulleys or top of the lever
is seven eighths of the whole length of the lever above the
fulcrum, and the two cords act at one eighth of the length of the
lever above and below the fulcrum, which, in every part of the

revolution of the pulleys, remains perpendicularly under the axis,
                                                                  ends of the radii of
at   a  thweoighptullheyaslf.-waBy ubtetiwfeeinnstetahde  bottom
the                                                               two cords being at
                                                          of the

tached to the pulleys, an endless cord be stretched around two

riggers, placed at some considerable distance from each other,
and one side of the cord be made to take one turn around one

pulley, and the other side of the cord one turn also around the
other pulley, then the cord being drawn at either side or either
end will cause the pulleys to revolve, and the carriage or vessel
                          THIRD REPORT -- 1833.

in which they are hung to be propelled the whole length of the
space between the riggers, with a speed seven times greater
than the motion of the cords.

   In applying this admirable invention of Mr. Saxton to the
propelling of carriages to great distances, Mr. Hawkins pro
poses to place a number of endless ropes in a line, each rope
stretched between two riggers, from a quarter of a mile to four
miles apart, the rope lying upon several rollers to keep it off
the ground, and passing around a pair of differential pulleys,
supported on a light four-wheeled truck, running upon a pair of
slight rails about 30 inches apart ; the diameter of one pulley
to be about 22 inches, and of the other about 26 inches, giving
a velocity of 12 to 1 : the diameter of the wheels on which

the truck runs to be about 30 inches. Each rope to be set in
motion from one of the two riggers being placed on a shaft
passing under the rails and extending a few feet outside the
railway, where the shaft may be turned either by a horse or
horses, by an ox or oxen, or by a stationary steam-engine, ac
cording to the quantity of travelling or traffic on the road, or
to other circumstances. The coach for passengers, or wagon
for goods, to be placed upon four wheels, of about four feet
diameter, running upon a pair of rails, placed five feet apart,
parallel with and lying on each side the pair of truck rails, and
also a little above their level ; so that the axletrees of the coach
and wagon wheels shall pass over the rims of the truck
wheels ; or the same effect may be produced by placing the
four rails on a level, and cranking the axletrees to raise them

over the truck wheels. A pawl in the frame of the carriage
or wagon being let fall upon a post arising from the frame of

the truck, will enable the truck to draw or drive the carriage
the length of its rope ; but on the truck being stopped near
the end of its rope, the momentum of the carriage will continue
its motion until it pass over and beyond the truck of the next
rope, which truck being set in motion, its post catches against
the pawl of the carriage, and drives or draws it on until
it reach the third truck, which again operates in the same
manner.

   In this way 388 horses, each acting, at their most effective
or walking pace of two miles and a half per hour, on a mile of
rope, might easily drive a coach containing eight persons from
London to Edinburgh in 13 hours, at the rate of 30 miles an
hour, the coach passing from truck to truck without stopping,
and the truck returning to take another coach every five
minutes : 500 passengers a day for the whole distance would
be very moderate labour for that number of horses.
           TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                 427

Account of the Depths of Mines. By John Taylor, F.R.S.,

                                                          %c.

   Mr. Taylor exhibited a section, showing the depths of shafts
of the deepest mines in the world, and their position in relation
to the level of the sea.
The absolute depths of the principal ones were :
                                                         Feet
1. The shaft called Roehrobichel, at the Kitspiihl mine
in the Tyrol
                                                         2764
2. At the Sampson mine, at Andreasberg in the Harz 2230
3. At the Valenciana mine, at Guanaxuato, Mexico 1770

4. Pearce's shaft, at the Consolidated mines, Cornwall 1464
5. At Wheal Abraham mine, Cornwall
6. At Dolcoath mine, Cornwall                            1452

7. At Ecton mine, Staffordshire                          1410

                                                         1380
8. Woolf's shaft, at the Consolidated mines . . . 1350
   These mines are, however, very differently situated with re
gard to their distance from the centre of the earth, as the last
on the list, Woolf's shaft, at the Consolidated mines, has 1230
feet of its depth below the surface of the sea, while the bottom
of the shaft of Valenciana in Mexico is near 6000 feet in abso
lute height above the tops of the shafts in Cornwall. The bot
tom of the shaft at the Sampson mine in the Harz is but a few
fathoms under the level of the ocean ; and this and the deep
mine of Kitspiihl form, therefore, intermediate links between
those of Mexico and Cornwall.
Mr. Taylor stated, that taking the diameter of the earth at
8000 miles, and the greatest depth under the surface of the sea
being 1230 feet, or   about ^th of    a mile, it follows that we
have only penetrated                  of nfo-Q part of the earth's
                       to the extent

diameter.
Some account was then given of the mines to which the shafts
referred to belong.

  Of the deepest, at Kitspiihl, as it has long ceased to work,

we do not know much. Villefosse, in his great work on the
Richesse Minerale de I' Europe, states that this was a copper
mine, which passed for being the deepest in Europe ; and that

in 1 759, it was reported on, amongst other mines, by MM. Jars

and Duhamel, and it was then proposed to abandon the work

ing, the water having been already suffered to rise near 200

fathoms.
   The Sampson mine in the Harz is one of the most celebrated
in that district : it has been working since the middle of the
428 THIRD REPORT -- 1833.

sixteenth century, and produces silver ores of superior quality.
The principal            sunk about 6 feet deeper every year, by
which ground   shaft is  is drained for a regular extraction of the
               enough                                and has al
         The mine is one of the oldest in Germany,
ores.  been profitable : it employs from 400 to 500  men. It is
ways
the property of shareholders, who are very numerous, the in
terest having been much subdivided in the course of time.
The mine of Valenciana at Guanaxuato was one of the most
renowned in Mexico. It produced annually, about the end of
the last century, 360,000 ounces of silver, worth about £600,000
sterling, and then employed 3100 persons. The shaft referred
to in the section was commenced in 1791, the mine having been
long previously worked by other shafts : it had attained its pre
sent depth in 1809, when the mine was stopped by the Revo
lution. It is octagonal, and more than 30 feet in diameter, a
great part of its depth being walled with beautiful masonry, and
is probably the most magnificent work of the kind. The ex
pense of forming this shaft is estimated by Humboldt at the
enormous sum of £220,000. The mine was so little troubled
with water that it was considered almost a dry one : during the
suspension of the works however, gradually filled. In 825
one of the English companies undertook to drain it, which
was, after great labour and expense, accomplished but the
mine has not been sufficiently productive since to make worth
                         it,

                                                                                                  ;

                                                                        it
                                                                                                               1

while to continue the working.
The Consolidated mines form the most extensive concern in
Cornwall, embracing what were formerly several distinct mines,
which, as the name indicates, were connected in one under

taking.
  This was arranged in 1818, and the mines which had remained
unwrought for many years were drained by very powerful steam-
engines, and were put into a state of active working. The ma
nagement was confided to Mr. Taylor and the late Captain
William Davey an outlay of £73,000 was incurred, which has
since been repaid with ample profit. The present produce
20,000 tons of ore a-year, yielding about 1920 tons of fine cop
per, being one seventh of the whole quantity raised in Great
Britain. The mines employ about 2400 persons, of whom about
1400 are miners working underground. The water raised to
       is
            is :

                     is

                                                                                                    :

                                                                                 is

                                                                                                                                ;

                                                                                             is
the adit level about 2000 gallons per minute the height to
which this lifted more than 220 fathoms, or 1320 feet the
aggregate weight of the columns of water in the pumps being
512,000 pounds, or about 230 tons, and the whole put in
motion by eight immense steam-engines, four of which are the

largest ever made.
TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.  429

   The depth of the mines has been increased 100 fathoms
since the period of the drainage being completed, being at the
rate of about 8 fathoms a year.

   There are, in the whole concern, 95 shafts, besides other
perpendicular communications from level to level underground
called winzes. The depths of the whole added together make up
about 22,000 fathoms, or 25 miles ; and the levels, or galleries,
will make up, in horizontal distance, a length of 38,000 fathoms,

or about 43 miles.

   Wheal Abraham is an old copper mine, the working of which

was abandoned a few years since, the vein having ceased to be

productive in depth. It was, until very lately, the deepest

mine from the surface in Cornwall, but is now surpassed by
the Consolidated mines.

   Dolcoath mine was formerly called Bullen Garden, and a
section of it as it was at that time will be found in Dr. Pryce's

work, Mineralogia Cornubiensis, published in 1778. It wasthen
rather more than 90 fathoms deep, and probably one of the
deepest mines at that time. It has, therefore, been sunk 140

fathoms since ; but, like all the great mines, it has not been in

constant work. It has now been actively prosecuted for many
years, and at present stands third in the list of copper mines in
Cornwall, arranging them according to the value of their pro
duce. That of Dolcoath, however, does not amount to one half
of that of the Consolidated mines.

    Ecton mine is celebrated in most books on mineralogy as one
of the principal copper mines in England ; and it was so at one

period, though the produce is now inconsiderable. It is situ
ated in Staffordshire, on the borders of Derbyshire, and is

very curious, from being in limestone and having no regular
vein. The ore has been found in large masses, irregularly de
posited, and is generally taken to be an example of contempo
raneous formation. The mine has been regularly worked for a

long series of years, and is now nearly exhausted. It is the
property of the Duke of Devonshire, and very large profits
were given by it in the latter part of the last century, some of

which, it is said, were applied by the late Duke to the erection
of the beautiful Crescent at Buxton. The mine is not far di
stant from this place, and is in a very picturesque situation on
the banks of the river Manifold.

   Mr. Taylor gave some account of the extent to which steam
power is at present employed in Cornwall in draining the mines
which penetrate so far beneath the level of the sea, showing
the influence that the great improvements, which have from time
430              THIRD REPORT 1833.

to time been made, and many of them even recently, must have
upon the production of some of the most useful metals.
The number of steam-engines used in pumping water from
the mines in Cornwall in December 1832 was altogether 64.
   Some of these are of immense size and power : there are five
in the county, of which the diameter of the cylinder is 90 inches,
the pistons making a stroke of 10 feet. Four of these are at
the Consolidated mines, and the first constructed of this size
was planned and erected there by Mr. Woolf. The beam of
such an engine weighs 27 tons ; the pump rods are of mast
timber, 16 inches square, connected by iron strapping plates of
enormous weight. The column of water lifted, the rods and
              up a weight of more than 100 tons, and this is
beam, make    the rate of from 5 to 10 strokes per minute.    kep* t
in motion at
The quantity of coal consumed in drawing water in the same
month in all the mines of Cornwall was 84,034 bushels, and the
quantity of water delivered, about 19,279 gallons per minute.
The weight of water actually poised by all these engines to
produce this effect amounts to about 1 137 tons.
From calculations carefully made in Mexico as to horse power

employed in draining mines, and deduced from a large scale of
operations, it is found that the performance is equal to 19,000
lbs. raised one foot high per minute for each horse.
According to this rate, the coal consumed in Cornwall in a

month being 84,000 bushels, or 2800 per day, and taking the
duty of the engines at 55,000,000 pounds lifted 1 foot by each
bushel, which is very nearly the fact, it will be found that the
sixteenth part of a bushel does as much in raising water in
Cornwall as a horse does in Mexico, (working 3 hours out of
24,) and that thus the number of horses required to drain the
mines of Cornwall would be 44,800.

     On Naval Architecture. By Jeremiah Owen.

A great deal has been done by mathematicians towards at
tempting to establish a general theory of resistances, and con
siderable   expense has been incurred in
           which have been made on the    conducting experiments,
some of                                   Continent under the su
perintendence of eminently scientific men. D'Alembert, Bos-
sut, Romme, and several
times in experiments of this  others were employed  at different
                                                    Spain, and
                               nature. Don Juan in
Chapman, the great Swedish naval architect, also made several
experiments on   the same  subject ; as did also the Society for
the improvement            Architecture, which was established
                 of Naval

in England some years ago, but which has now ceased to exist.
These experiments have always been made upon models, the
TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.  431

largest of which, it is believed, have never exceeded 14 feet in
length. They were generally much smaller. The results which
have been thus obtained on small bodies have not been found
to agree with results similarly obtained on larger bodies ; and
not only has this been the case, but experiments conducted ap
parently with equal care by different individuals have even led
to different results.

    Naval architecture has, consequently, gained but little from
the labour that has been bestowed upon these experiments,
and the forms which have been given by different individuals
to ships have depended rather upon the fancy and general ex
perience of those individuals than upon any facts which this
branch of experimental science has furnished.

   In order to discover that form of the body of a ship which
shall oppose the least resistance to its passage through the
water, the author recommends that experiments be made on
ships themselves, under all the ordinary circumstances of
sailing.

   These experiments must be conducted, not in the mode in
which experimental squadrons have hitherto been, viz. by
comparing together the sailing qualities of ships that have va
ried in every particular. We are no more justified in saying
that results obtained in this way have proved which form of
body is best calculated for velocity, than we are in saying which

Ifship has been the best managed.

       it be desirable to discover by experiment which of two or
more forms is best adapted for velocity, it is, of course, neces
sary that the form shall be the only variable element ; the ships
in every other respect must be exactly similar.

   By the aid which the mathematics afford, we shall be able
most completely to accomplish this. Let a ship be given which
sails well, and which is in all other respects an efficient man-of-
war as regards capacity, stability, &c. &c. Let this ship be
docked, and let the most complete drawings of her form be
made, from which we shall be able to calculate exactly every
necessary element, such as displacement, area of midship sec
tion, of load water section, stability, &c. ; and let the surface
of sail, the position and rake of masts be also acertained.

   Then let one or more ships be constructed, having exactly
the same principal elements as the given one, with whatever
difference of form it may be thought proper to select, and let
the same surface of sail be given to them all. We shall thus
have the same weights to be moved, and the same propelling
force to move them ; the result will, of course, show which form
is best calculated for velocity.
    432 THIRD REPORT -- 1833.

    These ships may be made to sail against each other under
    ever possible circumstance of sailing, taking care always to ap
    ply the propelling force in the same way, that is, by bracing the
    corresponding yards of all the ships to the same angle with a fore

    and aft line, during every comparison, and by raking the masts

    to the same degree.

      It is of importance that during the experiments the surface
    of sail in each ship should be presented as nearly as possible
    at the same angle to the action of the wind ; and this is perfectly
    practicable, for it is easy to measure the angles of the yards by
    an instrument for that purpose ; and the officer who commands
    the squadron can take care, by means of frequent signals, to
    have the yards of all the ships braced to the same angle at the

    same time.

       These experiments would not be limited in their result to the
    discovery merely of that form of a ship which is best calculated
    for velocity, although this of itself is so important as to justify
    almost any expense, but we might also be able to discover how
    far the angle of leeway is affected by the form, which is also a
    very important question connected with the sailing of ships ;
                                      and careful trials, discovered the
    and after  having, by   repeated  in respect of velocity, we might
               superiority
    order of                of ships
    then, by varying the angle of bracing the yards, discover also
    the trim of the sails and the course of the ship by which to gain
    most on a wind, a question which is not by any means satisfac
    torily settled, in as much as it involves all the uncertainty of our
    present knowledge of the resistance of fluids.
       Experiments to determine this latter question might, however,
    be made immediately on sister ships, of which there are several
    at present in His Majesty's service.
    Let two ships be selected of the same form, and let the ut
    most pains be taken to make the position and rake of the
    masts, the seat in the water, the stowage of the ballast, and of
    all the heavy weights, exactly the same in both ships, and let
    them be compared together in sailing both on the wind and at
    various points off- the wind ; the angles of bracing the yards
    being constantly varied, we should doubtless, from a series of
    experiments of this nature, succeed in discovering the best trim

    tohfoItstheemwasyah,iilcsphefrohhraavpeesv,ebreybeenduihrrgeeecredtioarnegcaooinfmstmtheeanwdseeinrdide, sotnohafetevxetphryeeriemcoxepunerstnses.elikoef
    building a ship is so great as to render it advisable not to run
    the risk of building a bad one for the sake of experiment merely.
    But the author suggests that our knowledge of naval architec
    ture is such as to enable us to construct ships which we can

-.
                 TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                  433

certainly predict will be good, notwithstanding they may not
be the best that might be produced ; and the ships which would
be included in the experiments proposed would have all the
essential qualities of a man-of-war, except, that by differing in
form, some would be superior to others in respect of velocity.

   Naval architecture is a branch of science which depends so
essentially upon experiment for its advancement, and the ex
periments are necessarily upon so large and expensive a scale,
as to place it out of the power of individuals, or even of socie
ties of individuals, to conduct them. It is, therefore, one of
those enterprises in science which none but a nation can un
dertake ; and it is worthy of so great a maritime nation as En

gland to endeavour to advance, at whatever reasonable cost, a
subject so important to its defence.

    III. NATURAL HISTORY-- ANATOMY-

                       PHYSIOLOGY.

On  the originary    Structure of   the Flower, and the mutual  De
        pendency     of its Parts.
                                     By Professor Agardh.

The observations in this paper were generally directed against
the commonly adopted view, that the flower is formed of several
verticils independent of each other. The author remarked the
difference between the appearance of the verticillated parts and
their real and originary situations. Adopting the view, that
the flower is nothing more than a branch, which has been re
duced to a mere point whilst its subordinate parts have been
transformed, he concluded that the different parts of each ver-
ticillus formed an originary spiral, and are really of unequal
order, age, and situation, which, in many cases, is still evident
during the inflorescence ; and imagining the branch shortened
to a point, it will be found that the upper, later, and weaker
parts must be the inner ones of the apparent verticillus.
The second point of Professor Agardh's view is, that the
stamens are not transformations of petals but of buds. This
view is consistent with the whole theory of the development of
plants, as laid down in aseparate work (Organography of Plants),
and founded on the principle, that the several appendicular
parts of the plant are not all transformed leaves, but only one
part of them are transformed leaves, and others are transformed
buds, so                          which                      leaf be-
    1833.  that  to  every  part         is  a  transformed
                                  2f
434 THIRD REPORT -- 1833.

longs another part, which is a transformed bud. The stamens
are now, according to Professor Agardh, the buds of the leaves
of the flower, or of the petals and sepals. They are therefore
situated in their axillae, and each stamen belongs to a certain
petal or sepal, and both organs together form a little flosculus
as part of the whole flower, in the same way as the carpella are
parts of the fruit. Thus a Decandrous plant, for example a Ce-
rastium, consists of 10 floscules, each consisting of a leaflet and

of a stamen. A Pentandrous plant, for example a Borago,

consists also of 10 floscules ; but 5 of them, those of the interior
verticillus, are incomplete, bearing no stamens in their axillae.

   The observations made on the situation of the parts of the
flower were collected by Professor Agardh into the following
general laws or views.

    1. The number of stamens, in all cases where this num
ber is determinate, depends upon the number of sepals and
petals ; and when there seems to be a different normal num
ber for the leaves of the flower and for the stamens, it is an
aberration arising from abortion.

   2. The difference between the flowers which have the same
number of stamens as of leaflets, and those where their num
ber is only the half of the leaflets, is caused by the abor
tion of the stamens of a whole verticillus of floscules ; and ge
nerally of the corolline floscules. The reason is, that the corol-
line verticillus is constituted of later parts, which do not arrive

at complete development.

   3. The same reason is to be assigned to the general fact that

the petaline stamens are generally the weaker, smaller, and
later.

   4. The determinate stamens are either 1, 3, or 5 in num
ber, belonging to each leaflet, because the buds, according to
Professor Agardh's theory laid down in his above-mentioned
work, originate properly in the axillae of two deviating fasciculi
of spiral vessels, which fasciculi in the leaf (being no other
than the nerve) are always 1, 3, or 5, &c, and the buds must
therefore have the same symmetry and number. This is the
reason of the determinate number of stamens in several Polyan-
drous families, as, for example, in Rosacece, in which the sepals
have each 3 stamens, and the petals each 1 ; and in Phila
delphice, in which the sepals have 5 stamens, and the petals
1 : whence the former family must have 20 stamens, and the
latter 24.

    5. Some Polyandrous plants have not a determined number
of stamens. In these Professor Agardh distinguished two cases.
                  TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                                        435

In some, as in the Ranunculacece, the buds of the flower are in
a vascillating state between the form of stamens and flower-buds,

and even the sepals are in a vascillating state between bracteae

and sepals. In Helleborus, Nigella, &c, the inferior buds are
nearly like flowers, and also in Ranunculus the buds are only
to be regarded in the same state of transition to petals, as
the sterile flowers of Synantherece approach the form of
petals. By this is explained, not only why the nectaria of
iHfetlhleebyowruesrearoerigaixniallrayrypteotaltsheorselepaavlse,s,wbhuicth          could not be
                                                                              they  why the nec
                                                                             also
taria of Berberidece, which are so nearly allied to Ranunculacece,

are axillary to the sepals ; and finally, why there is an evident
transition between stamens and petals in Nymphceaeece, and
in all the families allied to Ranunculacece, the buds in the
flower having an equal tendency to form flowers, petals, and
stamens.
The other case of Polyandrous plants is where no relation at
all is observable between the flowers, leaves, and the number

of stamens. This is to be explained by the analogous case,
where the flowers in capitula, as, for example, of some Synan
therece, are without distinct bracteae to each single flower ; and
it is not more singular, that the stamens should be in some
cases without their respective flower-leaves, than that the
flowers in some cases should be without determinate bracteae.
6. When some floscules in the same verticillus are sterile or
without stamens, they are frequently those which are younger
or later than the others. The same reason is to be assigned
for the inequality of the stamens in the same verticillus. Ex.
Personatce, Labiate, in which the two younger stamens are

smaller, and the youngest stamen fails.
7. The ternary number in Monocotyledonous plants is de
rived from a leaf-bud, in which two outer leaves, or squamae,
turn their back to the stem, and form two sepals ; and the
third sepal is the leaf, in the axilla of which the bud is situated.
This is evident in Carex (in which the two leaves coalesce into
the utriculus,) and in the Graminece.                                               *

8. Dicotyledonous plants have their flowers formed on two
different plans.
9. One group of them has originally opposite leaves ; on
these the floscules are naturally in pairs, and when a fifth flos-
cule exists, it is to be regarded as the last, and the only one of
the third pair which has found sufficient room to develop. (See
Calyx of Dianthus.)

   1 0. The other portion of Dicotyledonous plants has alternate
2f2leaves, and, in consequence, impair and unequal floscules; but
436 THIRD REPORT -- 1833.

the floscules have a tendency to take a symmetrical form on both
sides, so that in this case a floscule exists which is especially
to be regarded as impair, and which is the first or the last in
the spiral. This impair floscule is commonly placed either near
est to the axis of the racemus (axilis), or outermost in the peri
phery (periphericus) of the racemus.
   1 1 . The petaline floscules have a contrary progression to the

sepaline, so that if the odd or impair sepal is placed nearest

to the axis of the racemus, the odd or impair petal is placed

outermost in its periphery.
12. The situation of the impair floscule is different in dif
ferent families, for example, the odd sepal, (the first or last sepal,)
is axilis in Labiatce, Personates, Umbelliferce , and periphericus
in Leguminosce, Rutacece, &c.

   13. By the situation of the carpella two cases are to be di

stinguished.
14. In some cases the carpella are commensurable with the
number of floscules. They are then placed either parallel to
the sepals, as in the Liliacece, Primulacece, Geraniacece, Cru-
ciferce, or parallel to the petals, as in the Rutacece, Philadelphus,
Onagrarice.
   15. In other families, and by far the greatest part, the car
pella are two, (complete and incomplete,) and thence not com

mensurable with the five divided flowers. In this case one
                          with the impair sepal, and the other
carpellum is parallel     The fruit of the Boraginece and Labiatce
with the impair petal.

is to be referred to this case, two carpella taken together being
placed parallel to the impair sepal, and the two others parallel
to the impair petal, the fifth carpellum having vanished.

Notice  of  Researches    PornofetshseorAcDtaiounbenoyf. Light  upon  Plants.

                      By

The author communicated a notice of certain researches
which he is at present pursuing concerning the action of light
upon plants, and that of plants upon the
   He considers that he has established,  atmosphere.                 on
                                           by experiments
plants immersed sometimes in water impregnated with carbonic
tpoahcrfeoidtphdoegisratcdsiho,eancarognmoedfpaoottshfieotictohesnaertmrasieno,ifnotchafaatrmttbhooetshnipreihcfeuaraniccctciiotdina,oinr,isos,cfoadnlniegtdpaheintenisdnipnegenpctiaraolnnlmyoeotitatthhibnealgert
upon the heating nor yet upon the chemical energy of the se
veral rays, but upon their illuminating power.
          TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                               457

   He regards light as operating upon the green parts of plants
in the character of a specific stimulus, calling into action and
keeping alive those functions from which the assimilation of
carbon and the evolution of oxygen result, and that the de
scription of rays which are proportionally more abundant in
solar than in artificial light are those most instrumental to the

above purposes.

   With regard to the second branch of the inquiry, Professor
Daubeny has only proceeded in it so far as to have satisfied
himself, that in fine weather                      chiefly of leaves
                               a plant consisting  of air night and
and stem will, if confined in  the same portion
day, and duly supplied with carbonic acid during the sunshine,
go on adding to the proportion of oxygen present, so long as
it continues healthy, at least up to a certain point, the slight
diminution of oxygen and increase of carbonic acid which

takes place during the night bearing no considerable pro
portion to the degree in which the contrary effect is observable

by day.
   He accounts for the discrepancy between his own results

and those reported by Mr. Ellis in his work on Respiration, by
his having taken care to remove the plant from the jar imme

diately upon its beginning to suffer from the heat or confine
ment, and from his having carried on the experiments upon a
larger and more suitable scale.
   Considering the quantity of oxygen generated by a very

small portion of a tree or shrub so introduced, he sees no
reason to doubt that the influence of the vegetable may serve
as a complete compensation for that of the animal kingdom,
especially since this same function appears to belong to every
plant which has come under his review, whatever may be its
structure or organization.

On  some  symmetrical  BRyelaWtioanlsteor fAtdheamB,onMe.sDo. f  the  Mega
             therium.

   The author, having examined the bones of the megatherium
which are preserved in the Museum of the College of Surgeons,
was led to observe their forms according to their symmetrical
relations. For this purpose, the coronal breadth of the cra
nium is taken as a common term of reference. It measures
8'75 inches, but in the following scale of proportions its breadth
is denoted by 10, and all the other measures are altered in the
same ratio, and expressed by the nearest integers. Dr. Bar

clay's nomenclature is employed.
438 THIRD REPORT -- l&W.

Hkad     Coronal breadth of cranium                                       1W

         Mesial thickness of the bony plate form
         ing the palate and the basilar surface of

         the nasal passage                                                2

         Mesial height from the surface of the palate
         to the concavity of the coronal surface,
         about the rostral margin of the rostral

         molar                                                            8

         Greatest height of the fragment of the
            head from the palatal surface in the di
                          rection of the socket of the third molar 13

Vertcbr*. . . Breadth of the transverse process of the atlas 14
                ....of the fifth cervical
                                                                           9
                of one of the largest dorsal                              12

                of a caudal vertebra, supposed to

                be that next the sacrum                                   25

                of the seventh of the 12 caudal

                which remain                                              10

                of the smallest caudal                                    4
                                                                          3--
         Length of the body of the atlas
                of the fifth cervical                                     3--

                of one of the largest of the dorsal . 4 4-
                of one of the lumbar
                                                                          5

                of six caudal                                             4+

                of the smallest caudal                                    3

   In the first three vertebrae of the tail in which the length is
diminished, that dimension is greatest on the upper or dorsal
aspect, indicating that about the middle the tail had a ten
dency to curvature downwards and forwards.

Longest spinal process of a dorsal vertebra                               16
Spinal Canal. . Width in atlas
                                                                           3
                                     in fifth cervical
                                                                           3+
                                          at the pelvis                    4

   The ribs of the megatherium were connected to the sternum

by osseous attachments.

Length of the longest rib which has been found (without
    its sternal attachment)                                               36
            of the shortest rib found (probably          the first). ...
                                                                          15 +
Greatest breadth of the shortest rib
                                                                            5

         of the longer ribs                                               3-5

....Thickness of the longer ribs                                          T8
Sternum  Breadth of the rostral portion
                                                                          8

         Mesial length of the same                                        10
         TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                                43J)

Pblvis   Greatest transverse extent of the iliac bones 75
         Width of pelvic aperture
                                                               16

         Depth of ditto                                        28

         Breadth at the mesial margins of the ace-

         tabula                                                18

                       between the acetabula and the

                       ischial tuberosities                    28

                       at the ischial tuberosities             24

         Thickness of bone at the ischial tuberosities 3

         Symphysis pubis, its rostro-caudal extent 1 1
         From the sternal surface of the symphysis

         pubis to the sternal surface of the spinal

             canal, the mesial distance is                     39
         Length of the thyroid foramina                        12

         Breadth of the same                                       6

         From the lateral extremity of the left iliac
         ....bone to the right ischial tuberosity
                                                               58
         .... Breadth from the acromico-glenoid sinuosity 1 7
Scapula

                       from the caudal margin of the gle

                           noid cavity                         20
         Length of the glenoid cavity
         Extent of dorsal margin of scapula                       7
                                                               31

                       ....from the dorso-caudal angle to the
                       extremity of the acromion               33

         From the acromion to the glenoid cavity,

         (greatest breadth)                                    14

         Thickness of scapula at the dorso-caudal

         angle                                                 3

Clavicle. . . . This strikingly resembles that of man.         17
                      Its length                                 7
                      Its girth

Radius   Its length                                            28

         Its greatest breadth near the os humeri . . 8
         Its smallest girth
Astragalus. . Breadth                                          10

                                                               11

         Length                                                10

Calcankum . . Digital breadth                                  8

         Greatest length                                       20
         Proximal breadth                                      12

Crus     Smallest girth                                        20
         Digital breadth                                       13

         Proximal breadth                                      14

         Fibular length                                        24
         Tibial length                                         25
         Tibia, smallest girth
                                                               16

Femur    Breadth                                               18

         Smallest girth                                        30

         Greatest length                                       32
   440             THIRD REPORT 1833.

   Dr. Adam observes, that by the completion of Mr. Clift's
   labours in adapting and mounting the remains of this animal,
   some peculiarities now visible in the internal structure of the
   bones will be concealed, and on this account he directs the
   att"enItniontheofthziocokleogr isptasrtsto
                                                the following  observations :            bones  of
                                               of the ribs as
                                                               well as of the
   the limbs where broken, there are dispersed and conglomerated
   in the reticulated texture, like the spherules in some crypto-

   gamous plants, numerous round bodies from one tenth to two
   tenths of an inch in diameter. These bodies are hard, but of

   a steatomatous appearance: they seem to have resulted from
   the same exuberance of ossification so conspicuous in the ex
   ternal surface. The external surface of the thicker parts of

   the bones looks as if formed by a conflict of the osseous spi-
   culae, which are of the size of coarse needles."
   Dr. Adam is of opinion, that probably the nails of the me
   gatherium might have been doubled under the foot in the same
   manner as those of a living cognate species, the short-tailed
   manis, the feet of which living species had hitherto been incor
   rectly figured in zoological works.

   On   some  new  RSp. eHcieasrlaonf, FoMs.sDil .,SaoufriaPnhsilafdoeulpnhdiai.n        America.

              By

   The species of saurians mentioned in this communication
   had been all examined by Dr. Harlan, and a full account of
   them is preparing for publication. The following extracts will
   make     IckhntohwynostahuerunsamMesissaonudrileoncasliisti.e--s Aof
                                                                         these fossils.  the  head
        1.
                                                                         fragment of
   has been found in a hard bluish grey limestone, near the junc
   tion of the Yellow-stone and Missouri rivers.

     2. A dorsal vertebra, analogous to those of plesiosaurus,
   except that its length is remarkably greater in proportion to its
   breadth. Found in marl on the banks of the Arkansaw river :
   supposed to belong to a very large individual. The marl con
   tains many bivalve shells.
      Remains of crocodiles, geosauri, &c, were also mentioned
   by Dr. Harlan as occurring in West New Jersey in marls.

   Remarks on Genera and Subgenera, and on the Principles on
   which they should be established.                           By the Rev. Leonard

   Jenyns, A.M., F.L.S.

      The object of this paper was to make some remarks on the
   great multiplication of genera at the present day, and to show

-
          TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                                 441

that in constructing them sufficient attention had not always

been paid to the true principles of classification. It was par
ticularly stated that in this country zoologists had very much
overlooked the principle which determines that all groups bear
ing the same title should be groups of the same value ; and
that in raising to the rank of genera the subgenera of the
French, they put these last on the same footing with groups of
a higher denomination, to which in strict reality they were
subordinate. Instances were brought forward from amongst
the genera of British birds, in which this disregard to a due

subordination of groups was particularly manifest. It was
mentioned that in this way Plectrophanes was made a group of
equal value with Emberiza, Lagopus with Tetrao, Coturnix with
Perdix, and Botaurus with Ardea, although it might be clearly
seen, that in each of these instances the first group rested on
characters far less important and less numerous than those

which were common to the two considered as one genus.
   Some remarks were then made on the method of ascertaining

the value of any new group that presents itself. It was ob
served, that to fix this with certainty required a previous ac
quaintance with all the other existing groups belonging to the
same family, and that therefore it can only be determined so
Iffar as the present state of our knowledge of that family will
allow.    it be found on comparison that its characters are of
equal value with those of other acknowledged genera in that

family, the group in question may be considered as a genus

also ; but if of less, it is clear that the group itself is one of
less importance, and must occupy a subordinate station.
   The author concluded with pointing out the impropriety of

splitting up natural genera, as had been done in some cases,
merely because they contained a large number of species. He
stated that the value of a group was not affected by such a
circumstance ; furthermore, that no groups should exist in our
systems but such as exist in nature ; and that for the mere
purpose of abridging labour in the search after particular spe

cies, it was quite sufficient in the case of extensive genera to
institute sectional divisions, indicating such sections by signs.

On  some  parts of the  MNaatcuarratlneHyis, toMry.Do.,f  the Common    Toad.
            By James
                                                          F.R.S.

After commenting upon the unfounded prejudices against the
whole class of reptiles, and the toad in                           the  taouatdh--or
corrects an error concerning  tfhaellemn o--dethoaft  particular,  the
into which even Linnaeus had                          feeding of
                                                      the flies are attracted
442 THIRD REPORT -- 1833.

into its mouth by a power of fascination. " The toad takes

its prey in the same manner as the chamaeleon and many
other lizards, by projecting its tongue, striking the insect, and
drawing it back into the mouth, and this it does so rapidly that

the action cannot be seen ; but if a fly alights on the outside of
a glass vessel in which a toad is inclosed, the creature, thinking
its prey is within its reach, performs the usual act, and the
stroke of the tongue is very distinctly heard against the inside
of the glass opposite to the fly."
   Stories are very frequently published of living toads being

found encased in solid rocks and in the trunks of trees, and
these accounts receive very general credit. To ascertain how
far this is probable, Dr. Macartney made the following experi

ments.
   He placed a toad in a glass vessel covered loosely with a
piece of slate, and buried the vessel containing the toad about a
foot deep in a garden ; on digging it up a fortnight afterwards,
the animal was in perfect health, and had recovered from a
wound it had previously received in the thigh. He then took
the same toad, and having secured the top of the vessel in such
a way that no air nor moisture could be admitted, he buried it
in the same place, and on raising it a week afterwards found
the animal dead and putrid : from hence he concluded that the

toad cannot live if moisture and atmospheric air be perfectly
excluded. It is very probable that toads have been often found
alive in chasms of rocks, or in hollow trees having a small aper
ture through which the air and also insects might enter ; but
that any animal possessing lungs should live for an indefinite
time without some communication with the atmosphere appears
quite incredible.
Cuvier has stated that the toad, although not venomous, yet
when provoked ejects a liquor from two glands placed on its
head, which is capable of irritating the skin. Dr. Macartney
has often had toads in his possession, but never observed any
thing of the kind ; nor does he believe that the animal has any
disposition to injure others : on the contrary, the toad is very
gentle, capable of being domesticated, and of becoming attached
to those who treat it well.

   It is a popular notion that toads cannot live in Ireland, which
opinion is in some degree countenanced by the fact of there
being no reptiles in that
frog, and the latter was   country except the water-newt and    the
                           introduced within the last century.
                                                                 It
is also understood that there are no reptiles in the Isle of Man.
The climate of both these islands being more moist than that
of England would be particularly suitable to frogs and toads,
              TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                                        443

although it would probably be unfavourable to serpents and
many kinds of lizards.

Some years ago the author brought eleven toads from this
country to Ireland, and as he did not wish them to be propa
gated, on account of the alarm and disgust which many weak
people feel towards them, he buried them in a flower-pot co
vered loosely with a slate, to prevent the earth falling in upon
them. In this situation he kept them for two years, occasionally
digging them up, for the purpose of exhibiting them and making
them the subject of experiments. They at length all died during
a very hot summer, the ground in which they were buried
having become so dry that the animals could no longer receive
any moisture ; for although the toad eats many insects when
it is at liberty, it will live and increase in size by imbibing
moisture alone, for which purpose its skin is provided with nu
merous pores.

   The toad possesses greater powers of repairing the effects
of injuries than most other animals. One of the toads which
has been mentioned as living beneath the surface of the earth
for two years had been subjected to the experiment of having
the upper part of the skull removed, and a portion of the brain
scooped out. The wound rapidly healed, leaving a depression
corresponding to the quantity of bone and brain taken away.
The only effect which remained from this injury was that the
animal afterwards did not walk in a direct line, but in curves

to the one side, a fact which has been observed in other in
stances consequent to injuries of the brain. Dr. Macartney has
seen one instance of the same kind in the human subject, the

person being incapable of locomotion, except in circles, as if

he were waltzing.                                             of
   There is one  fact  in  tqheuitneatuunrkanl ohwisnt,or--y       the toad which
author believes   to   be                                     the    utterance by  the
                                                                                   the
animal of a musical sound, consisting of one note, so clear and
pure that it perfectly resembles that which is produced by
striking a piece of glass or some sonorous metal. The season
of the        in which this was heard  was the latter              p"arOt noef
        year  Macartney concludes by   observing that                              au
tumn.                                                                              ob
         Dr.

ject in studying zoology, and that not an unimportant one, is,
by closely investigating the habits of animals, to remove the
prejudices and apprehensions which are traditionally handed
down to us from those ages in which fable took the place of
knowledge. Many of these errors and prejudices with respect
to animals exist in the present day, even amongst well informed

persons, to an extent that would scarcely be believed unless

our attention had been directed to the subject. In selecting
444  THIRD REPORT 1833.

the history of the toad, I have merely employed a remarkable
example of the fact."

     Observations relative  to the Structure and Functions  of

              Spiders. By   John Blackwall, F.L.S.

During the last three years the author has been engaged
occasionally in conducting experiments having for their object
the determination of a highly interesting question in physiology,
namely, what are the true nature and functions of the remark
able organs connected with the fifth or terminal joint of the
palpi of male spiders ? The opinion advanced by M. Treviranus,
and adopted by M. Savigny, that those parts are instruments
employed for the purpose of excitation merely, preparatory to
the actual union of the sexes by means of appropriate organs
situated near the anterior extremity of the inferior region of the
abdomen, is in direct opposition to the views of Dr. Lister and
the earlier systematic writers on arachnology, who regarded
them as strictly sexual ; and the results of the author's investi
gations clearly demonstrate the accuracy of the conclusion
arrived at by our celebrated countryman.
   In the spring of 1 Sol Mr. Blackwall procured young female
spiders of the following species, Epeira diadema, Epeira apo-
clisa, Epeira calophylla, Epeira cucurbitina, Theridion ner
vosum, Theridion denticulatum, Agelena labyrinthica, &c , and
having placed them in glass jars, fed them with insects till they
had completed their moulting and attained maturity, which is
easily ascertained in most instances by the perfect development
of the sexual organs. He then introduced to them adult males,

taking care to remove the latter as soon as a connexion had

been consummated in the usual manner, by the application of
the palpal apparatus to the orifice situated between the plates
of the spiracles in the females. He never in any instance suf
fered the sexes to remain together any longer than he found it
convenient to continue his observations, and remarks that their
union, however prolonged
complished in the manner    and undisturbed, was  ofinvariably acse
                            stated above. After   a lapse

veral weeks the females thus impregnated respectively fabricated

their cocoons, and deposited their eggs in them, all of which
proved to be prolific ; affording a complete refutation of the
opinion promulgated by M. Treviranus.

   That there might not remain the slightest doubt, however,
on the mind of the most fastidious inquirer, in the summer of
1832 the author brought up from the egg young females of the
species Epeira calophylla and Epeira cucurbitina, which, when
TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.  445.

they had arrived at maturity, he treated in the manner de
scribed in the preceding cases. In the autumn of the same
year these spiders deposited their eggs in cocoons spun for
their reception, out of which the young issued in the ensuing
spring, having undergone their final metamorphosis in the
cocoons.

    These experiments, besides effecting the purpose for which
they were instituted, served also to supply collateral evidence

of the correctness of M. Audebert's observations relative to
the capability of the House-spider, Aranea domestica, to pro
duce several sets of prolific eggs in succession, without renew
ing its intercourse with the male ; for three females of the spe
cies Agelena labyrinthica deposited each a second set of eggs,
and a female, Epeira cucurbitina, laid four consecutive sets,
intervals of fifteen or sixteen days intervening, all of which pro

duced young, though these females had not associated with
males of their species for a considerable period antecedent to
the deposition of the first set of eggs.

   MM. Lyonnet and Treviranus, with other skilful zootomists,
have fallen into the error of mistaking the superior spinning

mammulae of spiders, when triarticulate and considerably elon
gated, for anal palpi {palpes de Vanus), denying that they per
form the office of spinners, in consequence of their having failed
to detect the papillae from which the silk proceeds ; and in this
opinion they are followed by the most distinguished arachno-
logists of the present day. The author is inclined to attribute
this singular oversight to the peculiar disposition and structure
which the papillae or spinning tubes connected with the su
 perior mammulae, when greatly elongated, frequently exhibit.
Arranged along the under side of the terminal joint, they pre
 sent the appearance of fine hairs projecting from it at right

angles ; but if the spinners when they are in operation be care

fully examined with a powerful magnifier, the function of the
hair-like tubes may be ascertained without difficulty, as the fine
lines of silk proceeding from them will be distinctly perceived.

    In conducting this observation Mr. Blackwall usually employs
 the Agelena labyrinthica of M. Walckenaer: its size, the length
 of its superior mammulae, and its habits of industry, afford a
 combination of advantages comprised by no other British spider.

    The purpose subserved by the superior mammulae, when very
 prominent and composed of several joints, is the binding down
 with transverse lines, distributed by means of an extensive la
 teral motion, the threads emitted from the inferior mammulae ;

 by which process a compact tissue is speedily fabricated.
    The foregoing facts supply a striking exemplification of the
44G THIRD REPORT 1833.

importance of connecting physiological researches with anato

mical details.
In attempting to drown a small spider, new to naturalists,
(which the author has named Erigone atra,) for the purpose of
taking its dimensions accurately by measurement, he was asto
nished to find that at the expiration of two days, though it had
remained under water the whole of the time, it was as lively
and vigorous as ever. This extraordinary circumstance induced
him to submerge numerous specimens of both sexes in cold
water contained in a glass vessel with perpendicular sides, on
the 21st of October 1832, in which situation they continued till
the 22nd of November, an interval of 768 hours, without having
their vital energies suspended.
   He has tried the same experiment with individuals of other
species, and some of them have preserved an active state of
           for six, fourteen,  or twenty-eight
existence   exercising their                    days, spinning their
lines and                      functions as if  in air, while others
have not survived for a single hour. It is evident, therefore,

from these curious facts, that some spiders possess the power
of abstracting respirable air from water ; for though in the act
of submersion the spiracles are generally enveloped in a bubble
of air, yet so small a supply is speedily exhausted, and, indeed,

soon disappears.

   The external and internal organization of such species of
Araneidce as can exist for a long period of time under water
deserves to be attentively examined ; but those species which
the author has observed hitherto are minute, and it would re
quire the hand and eye of an accomplished anatomist, assisted

by the most delicate instruments and powerful magnifiers, to
effect this desirable object satisfactorily.

On the Reproductionofthe Eel. By William Yarrell, F.L.S.

   Sir Humphry Davy, in his " Salmonia" considered the

mode in which eels produced their young as a problem in na
tural history not then solved, the more general opinion being
that they were viviparous.

   The paper commences with a recital of the opinions of various
writers on this subject, from Aristotle and Pliny to the time of
Bloch and Lacepede, and the author states his belief that the
viviparous nature of eels had been inferred from the circum
stance of their being subject to numerous intestinal worms, three
species of which are named and described as of frequent occur

rence.

  The sexes are distinct ; the females oviparous. The situation,
TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.  447

structure, and peculiarities of the sexual organs are described,
and the author gives a statement, from his own examinations,
of the dates at which eels in various ponds and rivers in
different southern counties deposited their ova and milt, all
of which occurred between the 15th of April and the 7th of
May.

   The migration of adult eels in autumn, in tide rivers, is con
sidered as extending to the brackish water only, and believed
to be induced by the higher degree of temperature there exist
ing. The mixed water is shown by experiment to maintain a
temperature two degrees higher than the pure sea or fresh
water, from the combination of two fluids of different densities.

    Eels pass the winter imbedded in mud.
   The return of adult eels is shown by the habits and success
of the basket fishermen in rivers within the tide-way, who place
the mouths of their eel-pots up stream in autumn, and down
stream in the spring.
   The ascent of the fry is described as it occurs in the Thames,
the Dee, the Severn, and the Parret.
   Sea water contains a much larger proportion of earthy mat
ter, and in consequence less air, than the water of rivers, and
fresh water also yields its oxygen much more rapidly than that
of the sea ; the author states his belief that no instance of a

freshwater fish going to the sea to deposit its spawn will be
found, while more than twenty species of truly marine fishes
ascend rivers to deposit their spawn, obtaining thereby, for the
vivification of the ova, the assistance afforded by a larger quan
tity of oxygen.

   The restlessness of eels during thunder-storms, when enor
mous quantities are taken, is referred by the author to the high
degree of muscular irritability known to exist in all animals pos
sessing a low degree of respiration, with which coexist the
power of sustaining privation of air and food, a low animal tem
perature, and great tenacity of life, all of which eels are well
known to possess.

    Fishes that swim and take their food near the surface die
soon when taken from the water, having a higher degree of re
spiration and less muscular irritability, compared with those that
swim near the bottom ; and vice versa.

   The paper concludes with descriptions of the characters
which distinguish three different species of British freshwater

eels.
448 THIRD REPORT -- 1833.

OnAnafttrhiivceeaN.oaftuBInryadliizCaa,htiaoarnnldesitnhWeEAnilcgleclmaonaxtdi,choCafuerrtauhtseorMHyoetfirlouthsse,  crenatus,   a
                                                                                                                      a native
                                                                                                                      Museum     of
                                                                                                                                 of
the Portsmouth and Portsea Literary and Philosophical So

ciety.

   Mr. Willcox states that when His Majesty's ship Wellesley
was docked at Portsmouth in July 1824, he discovered on the
lead of the cutwater and under the keel a great number of My-
tili, which, on examination, proved to belong to the species
named M. crenatus. The W ellesley was launched at Bombay
about February 1815, and came into this harbour in May 1816,
where she remained for upwards of eight years previously to her
being taken into dock.

   The same species of Mytilus has, however, within the last
twelve months, been found by Mr. Willcox among groups of
Mytilus edulis, on the fore part of the keel of several ships on
being taken into dock, which proves their naturalization in a
climate apparently uncongenial to their nature.

   The Acematichajrus Heros has been found in many parts of
His Majesty's dockyard at Portsmouth for some years past.
Several specimens are in the possession of Mr. Willcox, and al
though it was generally supposed that they were bred in African
timber, imported for the building and repairs of the navy, yet
it was not until the following circumstance occurred that this
fact was proved. With the intention of determining this ques
tion, Mr. Willcox had for a considerable time been in the habit
of examining every piece of African timber which came under
his inspection : at length, whilst a piece of this timber was be
ing cut, several small holes, the size of a pea, were discovered
running in a direction more or less oblique to the fibres of the
wood, and generally increasing to six or seven times their dia
meter at the orifice, the inside surface being perfectly smooth.
Shortly after, a larva was found surrounded by the dust of the
wood, and it was carefully extracted from one of these holes.
This circumstance encouraged Mr. Willcox to make further
search, and he at length succeeded in finding in another hole
the pupa, which was taken out alive, and he found it to be that
of the insect before mentioned.

   The perfect insect was kept alive by Mr. Willcox nine weeks,
by feeding it on sopped bread sweetened with sugar. Several
of these insects have of late been found in an apparent healthy
state, at different parts of the island of Portsea ; two of them

(male and female) Mr. Willcox has now alive. It may be, per
            TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                  44U

haps, concluded from this circumstance that this species of in
sect will ultimately become naturalized in this climate.

AbNostferarAvcnotautsoomfSOyysbtsaeenmrdv. aStiuoBrngsyerJyoanmintehsethMSetarUucncatirvuterneresyiat,yndMoFfu.DDncu.,tbiolPinnrs.ofeosfstohre

   The author begins by stating the received opinion respecting
the structure of the brain, as consisting of two substances; the
one an opake white pulp, which is considered to be the nervous
matter ; the other a coloured substance, in some places inclosing
the white, and at other places being imbedded in it.

   It has been long known, he adds, that the white substance in
many parts assumes the shape of bands or bundles of fibres.
Dr. Spurzheim did not hesitate to call these fibres nerves, and
was more successful in tracing their course in some parts of the
brain than his predecessors had been.
But the author has employed a method of dissecting the brain,
which has enabled him to discover that all our former ideas with
respect to the structure of the cerebral organ fall far short of
the intricacy with which its several parts are combined.
In order to perceive the real structure of the brain, recent
specimens are necessary. The sight should be aided by spec
tacles of a very high magnifying power ; and as the different
parts are exposed in the dissection, they should be wetted with
a solution of alum in water, or some other coagulating fluid. By
these means it will be observed that all the white substance,
whether appearing in the form of bands, cords, or filaments, or
simply pulp, are composed of still finer fibres, which have a
plexiform arrangement, and that all those fibres, to the finest
that can be seen, are sustained and clothed by a most delicate
membrane. By the same mode of dissection, also, it is possible
to make apparent the existence of still finer interwoven white
fibres in all the coloured substances of the brain, in many of

which the nervous filaments are so delicate and transparent that

they are not visible until in some degree coagulated by the so
lution of alum or by spirits.
Dr. Macartney has thus been enabled to see twenty-six
plexuses not hitherto described in the brain, the fibres com
posing which assume two arrangements, the one reticular, the
other arborescent.
   The membrane mentioned as pervading the entire substance
of the brain, and supporting its delicate organization in every
part, has heretofore escaped the observation of anatomists, and
                                                           that such a
yet when    the fact is declared,  2wge  at once perceive

     1833.
    450 THIRD REPORT-- 1833.

    membrane must exist. It cannot be supposed that a mass of
    the magnitude of the brain, and possessing so definite an or
    ganization, should form an exception to the fabric of all the
    other parts of the body, and be left unprovided with a mem
    branous support. This membrane is analogous to the cellular
    membrane ; and if we admit that the filaments of the brain are
    similar to the fibres in other parts of the nervous system, we
    may consider the membrane which sustains and connects the
    cerebral plexuses as their proper musclema.
       The pia mater, or vascular integument of the brain, is com
    posed of two layers ; the external of which passes over the
    convolutions of the cerebrum and the gyri of the cerebellum,
    and the internal is reflected between these forms, and gives all
    their exterior surface an intimate covering. The blood-vessels
    seen on the brain are inclosed between these layers, and are
    conducted on the inner layer to the substance of the organ. The
    inner portion of the pia mater is continuous with the membrane
    of the substance of the brain, but becomes so delicate on enter
    ing the structure of the organ that it is readily detached from
    the brain without apparently injuring the integrity of its sur
    faces. When the inner layer of the pia mater is obtained in
    connexion with a portion of the vessels and membrane which
    penetrate the brain, it has the appearance of tufts or shreds,
    and as such has been described by Ruisch and Alkenus under
    the name of tomentum cerebri.
    The musclema of the brain appears in the adult to be only
    furnished with colourless vessels, except in those places where
    red vessels are seen to pass into the substance of the organ ;
    but in the foetus, the coloured substance of the convolutions
    may be injected so as to appear quite red. This fact is con
    sistent with the structure of many other organs during foetal
    life, which in that period of existence receives red injection,
    yet only admits afterwards colourless fluids. The great degree
    of vascularity in the foetus is particularly remarkable in the eye,
    the lining of the labyrinth of the ear, the periosteum, &c.
       The author has ascertained that the actual quantity of the
    sentient substance existing in the brain and other parts of the
    nervous system is extremely small. The bulk of these parts is
    not materially diminished by removing their nervous matter,
    provided their membranous structure be left behind ; and
    whenever we meet with the sentient substance in connexion with

    a highly attenuated membrane, as in the retina and in several
    of the cerebral plexuses contained in the coloured matter of the
    brain, it is absolutely  invisible until it
    gree of coagulation.     is,                 has  undergone  some de
                             It perhaps,         not  assuming   too much

~N
TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.  451

from these facts, to suppose that the whole nervous system, if suf

 ficiently expanded, and divested of all coverings, would be found
 too tender to give any resistance to the touch, too transparent
 to be seen, and probably would entirely escape the cognizance
of all our senses. Consistently with this view of the matter, the
 author thinks that we can hardly take upon us to say that the
 simplest animals, and even plants, may not have some modifi
 cation of sentient substances incorporated in their structure, in
 stead of being collected, as in the higher classes of animals, into
 palpable membranous cords and filaments.

    The term plexus has been generally employed to signify an
 interweaving or crossing of filaments ; but Dr. Macartney is
 satisfied that there is an actual union or intermixture of sub
 stance in both the plexuses of the brain and of the other parts
 of the nervous system. He has discovered that the roots of
 the spinal nerves, instead of being connected with the medulla
 by mere contact or insertion, as hitherto supposed, actually
 enter into the composition of the filaments of the spinal marrow,
 and that these roots of nerves (as they are called) form com
 munications with each other within the substance of the me
 dulla. With regard to the cerebral nerves also, it can be
 shown that they are continuous with the cerebral plexuses in
 their immediate neighbourhood.

    Many of the communications formed between the right and
left sides of the nervous system are well known, such as the
 commissures of the brain, the crossing white filaments of the
 spinal marrow, the decussation of the pyramids, and the inter
 change of the two optic nerves in fishes. The author has
found so many communications to exist between the origins of
 the nerves on the right and left sides of the body, that he is
disposed to believe it to be a general fact. The optic nerves
 in the human subject do not decussate, as some have supposed,
but form a very intricate plexus where they come into contact.
This mode of conjunction accounts for atrophy of the tractus
 opticus being in some instances found on the same side, and at
 others on the opposite side to that of the eye affected with

 blindness.

    The facts already observed would justify the opinion that
 the sentient substance is in no place distant or isolated ; that
 it is essentially one and indivisible; and consequently the ner
 vous system differs from all the other systematic arrangements
 in nature.

    It appears to the author that this view of the sentient system

 will alone serve to explain the numerous sympathies which
 exist in animal bodies, the occurrence of disease in the higher

                                                   9a 9
452            THIRD REPORT 1833.

orders of animals from indirect or remote impression, and the
operation of all remedies which act through the medium of the

sensibility.
The mode in which the sentient substance is arranged, its
more or less minute subdivision, and the degree of arterial
vascularity, determine the phaenomena of sensibility as they
come under our observation. Hence, we find that the brain,
even different parts of the spinal marrow, the trunks of the
       is
                                  is it,

                                           It

                                                                                                 a

                                                                                                                                               ;
nerves, and their sentient extremities, are so differently en
dowed, that we might be almost led into the error of supposing
them all composed of different materials.
It well known to surgeons and to experimental physiolo
gists, that the brain not endowed with any feeling, in the
common meaning of the word.                            may be wounded without
any sense of pain to the individual.
The trunks of the nerves not possessing the arrangement of

the sentient substance suitable to common sensation can only

transmit the feeling of pain. Thus, patients after amputation
often complain of pain in the part that has been removed but
the author believes that in no instance have they experienced

natural or agreeable sensations, or have expressed conscious
ness of the presence of the removed limb unattended with

pain.
The sentient extremities of nerves are alone capable of being
affected by narcotic poisons. Half a tea-spoonful of the es
sential oil of almonds introduced into the substance of the
brain of a rabbit did not produce the least effect on the ani
mal, nor was                                                end of the
sciatic nerve  any effect produced by placing          the  of almonds
               in a spoonful of the essential          oil
during half an hour, although the animal was afterwards killed
in the usual manner by few drops of this liquid on the
a
                                                    a
tongue.

   Impressions on the extremities of nerves sent to the organs
of sense and to the external surfaces of the body are attended
with consciousness in the individual, whilst those naturally
made on the interior surfaces cause no perception. These
surfaces, however, are amply supplied with nerves, and possess

   high degree of local sensibility, by which they not only
discern mechanic forms, but qualities in food and medicines
that the perceptive powers of the individual cannot distinguish.
These internal and unperceived sensations are continually
though secretly influencing the condition of the whole nervous
system, and are often the cause of remote morbid actions.
Under some circumstances movement follows impression made
on the external parts of the body after consciousness has be
TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.  4.53

come extinct. It is known that the ordinary actions of the iris
correspond with the impressions of light on the retina ; and

the author has observed that the iris continues to move under
the same law after the animal's head has been cut off, or the
eye taken out, as long as the retina retains its local sensibility :
similar effects take place in other parts of the body.

   The mutual influence of the nerves and spinal marrow seems
to be all that is necessary during foetal life, as the absence of
the brain in the acephalous foetus does not interfere with any
of the functions of the creature until the moment of birth.

   The offices which the coloured substance performs in the
nervous system have been matter of speculation with anatomists.
One obvious purpose of its existence is to give support and
security to the finest subdivisions of the sentient substance ;
we therefore find that it affords such protection in proportion
to the necessity : hence, in the brain, the coloured substance is
soft and tender, while in the ganglia of the nerves it is gene
rally dense and firm. Besides, however, forming a nidus for
the ultimate plexuses of the sentient matter, the coloured sub
stance would seem to fulfill some other use not yet ascertained,
as wherever it exists it exhibits the same character with respect
to colour, varying from yellow to green or brown. Dr. Mac
artney considers the yellow spot in the retina of the human
eye, and in that of the monkey and lemur, as a ganglion, having
discovered that it contains a more intricate reticulation of the
nervous filaments than exists in the other parts of the retina.

   The coloured substances of the nervous system in no degree
derive their peculiar tints from the blood that circulates in
them, since the colours are palest in the foetus, and grow
darker as the nervous system approaches its perfect organi

zation.

   It is a generally received opinion that the ventricles of the

brain are cavities or hollow spaces containing some liquid.
This error has arisen from the common modes of dissecting the
brain, which necessarily separate the surfaces of the ventricles
from each other. If, however, the dissection be performed
without disturbing the natural position of the parts, not the
slightest appearance of cavity or interspace presents itself.
The sole use of the ventricles, therefore, seems to be, merely
to gain an extent of surface necessary to the development of
the peculiar organization of the brain. Apparently there is
less superficies in proportion to the magnitude of the mass of

the brain in man than in that of animals ; but if we calculate
the depth of the surfaces between the convolutions of the cere

brum and on the branches of the arbor vitae in the cerebellum,
54              THIRD REPORT -- 1833.

together with the internal surfaces, we shall find that the su
perficies of the human brain is greater in relation to its bulk
than that of any other animal. In addition to the surfaces
already known, Dr. Macartney has ascertained the existence
of                           in the bulb of the olfactory   nerves, and
    ventricles  (so called)  the human adult brain. In      the thalami
in  the optic
                thalami of
the distinction of surface is obscure, but in the olfactory tu
bercles it is sufficiently plain.
    The author concludes with stating his belief that every as
semblage of the nervous filaments in the form of plexus is
destined to fulfill an especial purpose, and with the anticipation
that at no distant period we shall be able to understand many
of the phaenomena of sensation which have been hitherto
veiled in the utmost obscurity.

Abstract   ofBOybsHeurvgahtionCsarolnileth,e  Motions and Sounds              of the
   Heart.
                                              A.B., Demonstrator              in the

    School of Anatomy in the University of Dublin.

    The circumstances in the history of the heart's action which
                      assubfjoelclotwo: f--co1nstt,rotvheerseyxpwainthsiinon
have   been most the                                                          late  years
may   be enumerated                                                            and   con
           of the auricles
traction                     and ventricles, commonly called their
' systole  ' and ' diastole  '                      of the  heart against
                               ;  2nd,  the   beat

the side of the chest; 3rd, the arterial pulse; and 4th, the
sounds perceptible during the heart's motion. With a view to
the explanation of these phaenomena the author has made some
experiments on living animals, the results of which he was
desirous of communicating to the Association.
    In experiments of this kind it is desirable, as well for ensuring
the means of accurate observation as for the sake of humanity,
to diminish as much as possible the suffering of the animal.
This can be accomplished by the use of the artificial respiratory
apparatus, the animal having been suddenly deprived of sensa
tion without shedding its blood. But the author has found
that the application of this apparatus causes the heart to con
tinue and terminate its motions in an unusual manner, and is
therefore liable on some points to mislead the observer. In
those cases in which the employment of artificial respiration is
not expedient, there is much advantage in using very young
animals for experiment. In this stage of life, as well as in ani
mals of the inferior classes, the different organs appear to have

a comparatively independent existence ; and as their functions

are in many instances performed with little disturbance under
         TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                          455

serious injury to the individual, they also retain their vitality
long after their separation from the rest of the system. From
the same causes very young animals appear to suffer less pain
during experiment than those of mature age.
   After discussing the methods of experimenting, the author
proceeds to describe the opinions which have been held by
other persons on the subjects in question, and to compare them
with the conclusions to which his experiments have led.

   1st. It has been asserted by Bichat, and his celebrity has
induced
a power  moafnyacttioveaddopiltattahteiono,pibnyionm, etahnast  the ventricles possess

                                                                of which, when their

systole has terminated, they are enabled to invite into their
cavities the blood from the neighbouring auricles. The author,
however, has ascertained by experiment that there is no such
dilating power in the ventricles, but that these muscles, when
their state of contraction has ceased, become perfectly soft and
flaccid, like all other muscles in their state of repose, and thus
readily admit the blood from their respective auricles, which
had become distended during the systole of the ventricles. The
feeling of resistance which was mistaken by Bichat for a dilating
power, and was supposed by him to accompany the diastole of
the ventricles, the author has ascertained to be caused by the
swelling of their muscular fibres during their systole.

   The auricles contract but little upon their contents in man
and in the higher classes of animals, the small quantity of blood
which the ventricles discharge at each contraction being com
pensated by the frequency of their movement; while in the
cold-blooded animals, in which the heart acts with less fre
quency, the degree of expansion and contraction of both au
ricle and ventricle is much greater than in the former classes,
and the quantity of blood sent through the heart at each move

ment is much larger.
2nd. The impulse of the heart against the side of the chest,
commonly called its beat, has been explained by different
writers in various ways. Mr. Hunter supposed it to have been
caused by the straightening of the curve of the aorta during
the systole of the ventricles, whereby the apex of the heart was
thrown forwards. Meckel refers  it,in part, to the elongation
                                                   is
of the arterial tubes during the ventricular contraction, and
partly to the swollen state of the auricles at that time, by which
the ventricles are pushed forward against the side of the chest.
Harvey mentions an opinion held by some in his time, and which
has been lately revived, namely, that the beat caused, not by
any active power in the ventricles, but by the muscular con
traction of the auricles during their systole, by which the blood
456 THIRD REPORT -- 1833.

being sent with force into the ventricles, distends their cavities,
and causes them to strike against the chest. This opinion,
therefore, supposes the beat of the heart to coincide with the
ventricular diastole. Various other suppositions have been put

forward upon this subject by different authors.
   The author's experiments show that the beat of the heart is

coincident with the systole of the ventricles, and is caused by
the peculiar shape which these parts acquire in their contracted
and hardened state, their middle part becoming globular and
'
                                         is

                                                        '

                                                                              it,

                                                                                                                   '
                                                                                                                                                        '
prominent, and their apex being, as Hunter expressed  tilted

forward. During their systole the ventricles, like other muscles
in a state of contraction, become swollen and hard to the touch,
as was observed long since by Harvey. The greatest quantity
of muscular fibre being situated about their middle part, where
the musculi papillares' are placed, this part during the systole
assumes a globular and prominent form, projecting in front,
and by its protuberance behind pushing forward the body of
the ventricles. The apex  tilted' forward for the following
reason. The author has ascertained, by unravelling the struc
ture of hearts prepared by boiling, that the fibres which pass
from the base to the apex, on the front of the ventricles, are
considerably longer than those similarly placed behind. In
some human hearts he has found them in the ratio of five to
three the shape of the ventricles being nearly that of an ob
;

              is
                                 is

                                          it
                                                    is

                                                               a

                                                   if

                                                                                 a
                                                                                                             a
lique cone, whose base applied to the auricles, and whose
longest side in front. Now  law of muscular action

that fibres are shortened during their contraction in proportion
to their length when relaxed. For instance,       fibre one inch

long lose by contraction one fourth of its length, or one quarter
of an inch, a fibre two inches in length will lose one inch by
contraction of equal intensity. We have seen that the fibres
which by their contraction cause the apex to approach the base
of the ventricles, are much longer on the front than on the back
part, and, consequently, the former are more shortened during
their contraction than the latter. The apex, then, does not ap
proach the base in the line of the axis of the ventricles, but
                 is
                             is

                                                 is
                                                                   is

                                                                                  is
drawn more to the side of the longer fibres, that is, towards
the front, thus producing the 'tilting' forward.
This conclusion  strengthened by the fact that the forward
motion of the apex of the ventricles always proportioned to
the obliquity of the form of these cavities in different classes of
animals. In the heart of some reptiles, the frog for example,
in which the lengths of the fibres of the ventricle before and
behind are nearly equal, the tilting of the apex scarcely dis
cernible. The obliquity greater, as far as the author has
               TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.          457

been able to observe, in the human heart than in that of any
other animal.
Mr. Carlile has ascertained, also, that the ventricles assume

this form during their contraction, after they have been sepa
rated from the auricles by a ligature, and even after they have
been removed from the body, and placed in a vessel of tepid
water, or held upon the hand, the auricles having been pre
viously cut off; in all which cases the peculiar motions which
accompany their contraction and relaxation were observed to
recur as long as their power of moving remained ; proving that
the beat of the heart is produced altogether by the action of
the ventricles during their systole, and that in these, as in all
other muscles, the peculiar forms assumed during their con
traction depend upon the relation, as to length and position, of
the fibres of which they are composed.

   3rd. The arterial pulse, which is produced by the jet of
blood sent from the left ventricle into the aorta during its
systole, has been stated by Bichat and many other writers to
be synchronous throughout the whole arterial system. But
Ifthe experimenter can ascertain in his own person that the pulse
is successive at different distances from the heart.  the hand

be placed over the region of the heart, and the radial artery be
felt at the same time, an interval will be distinctly perceptible

between the beat and the pulse ; and if the anterior tibial artery
be substituted for the radial, the interval will be found still
greater. Repeated observations of this kind show that the in
tervals of time between each beat of the heart and the corre
sponding pulse in different parts of the body are proportioned
to the distances measured along the arteries, from the heart to
the respective parts; and a knowledge of this fact leads, without
further anatomical inquiry, to the conclusion that the beat of
the heart is coincident with the ventricular systole. For, as
the intervals of time between the beat and pulse are propor

tioned to the distances from the heart to those parts where the

pulses are felt, it follows that when the distances become eva
nescent the intervals of time will also vanish. Consequently, at
the origin of the aorta the pulse will coincide as to time with
the beat of the heart ; but the pulse at the origin of the aorta
is necessarily synchronous with the ventricular systole, by which
the blood is driven into that artery ; and therefore the beat
of the heart will coincide with the ventricular systole, a conclu
sion which agrees with that drawn from positive experiment.
   The proportion which exists in the pulse between the in

tervals and distances is dependent upon the elasticity of the

arteries.
458 THIRD REPORT -- 1833.

   4th. An explanation of the sounds of the heart has become
necessary since the employment of the stethoscope in ascer
taining the state of internal parts. Laennec has well described
these sounds, and properly refers the first to the rush of blood
from the ventricles during their systole. But, in supposing
that the second sound is produced by the auricular systole, he
has fallen into an extraordinary error, as the second sound
follows immediately after the first one, whereas the auricular
systole precedes the ventricular. This mistake has been no
ticed by different writers since Laennec's time, who have re
jected his explanation, and substituted others in its place.

    From the observations which the author has made, he has
no doubt that the second sound is caused by the obstacle which
the semilunar valves present to the passage of the blood from

the arteries back into the heart, at the termination of the ven

tricular systole.

   At each contraction of the ventricles a quantity of blood is
driven by them into the trunks of the arteries, which, being

already full, accommodate the addition to their contents by a
lateral expansion of their parts nearest to the heart. When
the systole of the ventricles is at an end, the elastic force of the
arteries, acting upon their contained blood, drives it towards
the heart, its entrance into which is prevented by the sudden
closing of the semilunar valves : and thus a shock is communi
cated to the front and upper part of the ventricles, and to the
adjacent trunks of the arteries, which may be heard by the
ear placed over the region of the heart. The relation, as to
time, which the second sound has to the first, its abrupt cha
racter, and its coincidence with the end of the ventricular systole,
have led the author to adopt the foregoing opinion.

   Mr. Carlile then described the experiments from which the
greater number of the preceding conclusions have been drawn,
and having detailed the circumstances of some made upon living
subjects, proceeded to relate those which follow.

   1. Artificial respiration having been established in a rabbit
which had been strangled, and the heart having been exposed,
the following observations were made.

   The finger being applied successively to the front, back, and
each side of the ventricles, conveyed the sensation of hardness
and impulse when the ventricles assumed the globular form, and
of softness and flaccidity when they became flattened and ex
panded. The end of a probe being laid on the front surface
of the ventricles, was raised nearly a quarter of an inch during
the former of these states, and sank, causing a slight depression
on the surface, in the latter. The probe was more elevated
             TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                    459

when placed on the middle point of the surface, or on the front
of the apex, than when placed elsewhere.

   The right wing being held aside, so as to admit of the right
auricle being seen, this was observed to swell during the con
tinuance of the ventricles in their hardened state, and to dimi

nish its size from the instant in which their flaccidity commenced,
its degree of contraction being, however, inconsiderable. The
contraction of the appendix was preceded by that of the rest of
the auricle, and followed by the instantaneous movement and
hardening of the ventricles. The contraction of the different
parts of the auricle was successive, commencing at the venae
cavae, and terminating at the appendix, of which last the con
traction was much more sudden and distinguishable than that of
any other part.
   The heart in this subject continued to beat for an hour, when
the motions in all its parts ceased, and nearly at the same time ;
both auricles and both ventricles remaining distended, soft, and
full of blood. The heart, separated from the body, was thrown
into tepid water, where it remained, soft, and without motion,
and           lost the power of contracting
    2.  had  rabbit having been strangled,   itself.     was  exposed
                                              the heart
         A
while still beating. In about 10 minutes the left ventricle
ceased to move, and had contracted itself firmly. In a minute
or two afterwards all motion was at an end in the left auricle,
which was also contracted. The right ventricle continued its
movements for 45 minutes, and during its contraction the apex

of the heart was drawn a little to the right side. The right
auricle continued to possess motion for an hour and three quar
ters; and for the last 20 minutes its contraction proceeded
slowly, and with a motion apparently vermicular, over its sur

face ; always commencing at the part contiguous to the vena?
cavae, and ending at the appendix. The right auricle and ven
tricle contained each some blood when their motions ceased ;

but, the heart having been thrown into tepid water, they gra
dually expelled their contents, assuming, as those of the left
side had done, a firm and contracted state.
The difference of the states in which the hearts were found,

after their motions had ceased, in the last two experiments, is
remarkable, and appears to admit of the following explanation.
In the last experiment, in which no means were employed to
continue respiration, the left side of the heart soon ceased to
move ; because a continuance of the functions of the lungs, as
proved by the experiments of Bichat, is necessary to the main
taining of its actions. The firmness of its contraction shows,
that although its ordinary motions had ceased, it still retained
4-60  THIRD REPORT -- 1833.

a considerable share of organic life, as it is known that muscles,
whose vitality is quite extinct, have no power of contraction.
In the experiment in which respiration was artificially main
tained, the left side of the heart continued to beat for an hour,
the sustained function of the lungs affording to it a motive for
prolonged action ; but having been deprived of the influence
which the central parts of the nervous system extend to organs
in vital connexion with them, its powers of life were exhausted
by the long continuance of its motions, and when these ceased,
it was quite dead, and incapable of a vital contraction. The
right side of the heart in the last experiment seems to have
participated in the exhausted state of the left side, because its
motions had been performed with much more energy during
their continuance than would have been the case had not re
spiration been artificially maintained.

OnHethneryMEecahralnei,smF.Ra.nSd.,  Physiology    of the Urethra. By
                                     Professor   of Anatomy and Surgery
to the Royal College of Surgeons.

   The author, having been lately engaged in delivering a course
of lectures on the anatomy and diseases of the urinary organs,
was led to prosecute his inquiries into the minute structure of
the urethra, and to avail himself of the aid of comparative ana
tomy to elucidate the subject. The results of this inquiry he
related briefly to the Section, with a view of reconciling some
of the discordances of opinion at present existing, and of ex
plaining the double functions of the organ.

      On the Nomenclature of Clouds. By          Burt.

   In the course of some meteorological observations, Mr. Burt
found the variations in the forms of clouds to be so numerous,
that it was difficult, by the use of Mr. Howard's nomenclature,
to describe them with sufficient accuracy.

   In consequence, he suggests the propriety of defining the
leading sections of clouds by peculiarities of their external con
stitution, and of characterizing the minor divisions by the ex
ternal forms of the masses.
TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                                              4Gl

On the peculiar Atmospherical Phcenomena, as observed at Hull
during April and May 1833, in relation to the prevalence
Influenza. By G. H. Fielding, M.R.C.S.L.                                   of

   The author observes, that the true causes of epidemic dis
eases being for the most part unknown, all the unusual circum
stances which occur during their prevalence, especially if these
be capable of estimation by exact comparative measurements,
should be carefully recorded. The value of meteorological ob
servations, as tending to determine the most important of the
variable conditions of this interesting problem, is insisted on,
and the results of his own observations are presented as prov
ing that the state of the atmosphere during the period of the
prevalence of influenza at Hull in 1833 was extraordinary.
The following are the numerical results.

 Mean pressure of the air .      April.   May.    Ditf.   April.  May.      Diff.
          dew point
                                30-063   29-989   0-08   29799    30-177    0 38
          temperature in shade  40-006   40-808   0-80   37823    45-253     7-48
                                46-674   49-767   3-09   44-706   55-393   10-69
          temperature in sun .  68-348   72865    4-52            84-122   16-97
         max. temp, in shade    53-933   57-809   3-87     7-251  63-690   12-38
          min. temp             39-416   41-725   2-31   51-310   47-096     8-99
Quantity of rain in inches                        1-58   38-103              3-93
                                  3-820    2-240                    0-600
                                                          4-530

   From the columns of differences it will be seen how much
more sudden and violent in all respects was the transition from
April to May in 1833 than in 1832. The number of hours in
which the sun thermometer, which has a blackened bulb,
could be used was, in April, 81 ; in May, 158. The winds in
April were easterly at the beginning and end, W., S.W., and
N.W. in the middle ; in March generally S., varying to the E.
and W. Rainy clays in April, 23 ; in March, only 2.

   The 16th of May is particularly mentioned as affording a
remarkable instance of contrast between the years 1832 and
1833. In 1833, during 14 hours, the thermometer in the shade
averaged upwards of 70° ; during 8 hours nearly 75° ; from 2
to 3 p.m. 77°. The thermometer in the sun for 19 successive
hours was upwards of 90°. Minimum temperature of the fol
lowing night 49°. Range of temperature in the sun 47°"5 ; in
the shade 28°. In 1832, during 13 hours, the thermometer in
the shade averaged rather more than 48° ; in the sun at 3 p.m.
the thermometer reached 62°*8 ; at 2 and 3 in the shade 50o,8
and 51°, which was the maximum. Minimum of the following

night 33°.
462 THIRD REPORT -- 1833.

   In  conclusion the author states that he  does not offer these
       as affording a complete explanation
data                                         of the prevalence of
influenza, but remarks that it is difficult to imagine otherwise

than that such sudden changes from cold to heat, from wetness
             from midday heat to cold evening fogs, must have
to dryness,
had a very   decided and general influence on the health of the

human body.

             IV. HISTORY OF SCIENCE.

A  short  Account of some  MSS.    PLuebttleicrasti(oanddroefssMedr.toFlMamr.stAeberda's
   ham
          Sharp, relative  to the
             CocfetlheestiAss,)solcaiiadtioonn.theBtyabFler,afnocristheBainislpye,ctVio.nP.Ro.fSth.,e
   Historia
   Members
   President of the Royal Astronomical Society.

These letters belonged to the late Mr. Abraham Sharp, and
were found some years ago in a box deposited in an old lumber,
room, filled with various books and papers, which had been
considered as of so little use that they were frequently taken
out by the servants to light the fire, and were otherwise de
stroyed and lost. The present collection of them, which was

               from such destruction, consists of above 120 letters
!1roremsetrhvedcelebrated Flamsteed, and of about half that number
from Mr. Crosthwait, his assistant at the Royal Observatory,
all addressed to Mr. Sharp, who at that time lived at Little
Horton, in Yorkshire, on an estate of his own. It is probable
that these are the letters alluded to in the life of Mr. Sharp,
inserted in Dr. Hutton's Mathematical Dictionary , the parti
culars of which, however, have never yet been made public.
They are now the property of a relation of the late Mr. Sharp,
residing in London, by whose permission they are exhibited for

insIptecistiowne. ll known that Mr. Sharp divided the mural arc that

was erected at Greenwich for Flamsteed's use, and that he
was for some time the assistant there. He afterwards retired
to his estate at Little Horton, where he lived a very secluded
life, passing most of his time in astronomical calculations.

Flamsteed employed him to compute the places of several of

the stars in his Catalogue, from the original observations ·, and
an extensive and friendly correspondence was kept up between
them till the time of Flamsteed's death, and was afterwards
continued with Mr. Crosthwait, who superintended the print-
TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.  463

ing of Flamsteed's works. This correspondence embraces a
variety of subjects ; but the principal, the most novel, and the
most interesting is the account of the repeated difficulties and
impediments which delayed and almost prevented the printing
of the Historia Ccelestis.

   The date of the first letter, in the present collection, is
February 6th, 1701--2, at which time it appears that Flam-
steed was preparing to publish his work, which was not com
pleted till twenty-four years afterwards, being six years after
his decease. He commenced the publication at his own cost
and risk ; but after he had expended a considerable sum
of money, the subject was mentioned to Prince George of
Denmark, who undertook to defray the expense of bringing
out the work : and here his troubles began ; for, in the first
place, the Prince declined the publication of the maps, which
Flamsteed considered the most important part, and such as,
in his opinion, would tend most to the "glory of the work;"
and secondly, the committee of the Royal Society, to whom
the superintendence of the business was intrusted, appear, from
the whole tenor of these letters, to have thrown every obstacle
in the way to prevent the progress of the printing. It is not
directly stated who were the members that formed that com
mittee, but it is evident from the correspondence that Newton
and Halley formed a part of it ; and Flamsteed can never touch
on this subject (and it forms a prominent portion of his letters,)
without expressing his opinion, in no very courteous language,
of their unfriendly and hostile conduct towards him.

   It was in 1 704 that the Prince offered to undertake to defray
the expenses of the printing ; but so many impediments were

thrown in the way (oftentimes frivolous and vexatious,) that it
was not till the end of the year 1707 that the first volume only,
the least interesting part of the work, was completed. Before
the second volume was commenced, the committee required
Flamsteed to deposit in their hands a duplicate copy of the
Observations, as well as of his Catalogue, which he accord
ingly did, sealed up. New causes for delay, however, were
brought forward, and before the second volume was sent to
the press Prince George died. During the whole of this time
Flamsteed had received only £125 towards the expenses of the
work ; and as he saw no prospect of any further support from
Government, he resolved to wait for better and more favour

able times.

    He then demanded from the committee the return of the ma
 nuscript Observations and Catalogue which he had deposited
in their hands, which request they appear to have refused.
    44M-                         THIRD REPORT 1833.

    The breach was now complete, and the subsequent letters are
    filled with complaints of the conduct of the committee ; and
    Flamsteed eventually commenced legal proceedings against Sir
    Isaac Newton for the restitution of the MSS. But it is prin
    cipally on Dr. Halley that the force of his indignation falls ;
    and if the circumstances referred to in the letters be correct,
                                                       be any doubt, although the
    m(oof tiwvehsichof ththeere   does    not seem to  been misinterpreted,) Flam-
                                 parties    may have
    steed had just cause for complaint and redress ; for he charges
    Halley, in direct terms, with having surreptitiously purloined
    the manuscript Observations and Catalogue deposited with the
    committee, and with having published them in a garbled and

    incorrect manner. It is acknowledged that the seals were
    broken ; but it is pretended that this was done by an order
    from the Secretary of State, for what purpose, however, does

    not appear. It is notorious that Halley did publish an edition
    of Flamsteed's Catalogue, and extracts from his Observations,
    in the year 1712, which is the work alluded to by Flamsteed ;
    and as Flamsteed could never recover back the MSS., there

    is no doubt that these were the documents made use of. In

    fact, the matter is not               disguised by Halley,    cinallsthHe alplereyfac"e.a
    Flamsteed remonstrated                against this conduct ;
    malicious thief," and bestows on him other opprobrious epithets.
    In the year 1716, Flamsteed obtained an order from the King
                  trhesemenapitunritnpogosthe(eunoOsfoblbsdee)irnvcgaotpoidereyss,torwofyhtehicdish,w: ho3er0k0sadycesol,piviheeesredw" esuraep
    to have the
    to him, for

    consequently
    crificed to truth"; and he appears to have missed no oppor
    tunity of destroying every copy that came into his possession.
    Such is Flamsteed's history of the edition of 1712.
       During all this time, no further progress had been made in
    printing the Observations. The first volume only was com
    pleted, but this did not contain any of the observations made
    with the mural arc at Greenwich ; the second, which was to

    commence with those observations, was not yet begun. Flam
    steed, however, had printed, for private circulation only, a cor

    rect copy of his Catalogue of Stars, to counteract the effect of

    Halley's spurious edition ; but no steps had been taken towards
    forwarding the main work, which had now lain dormant upwards
    of ten years, and which was much increased by the numerous

    observations made during that period. At length, not being
    able to regain possession of the MSS., he was obliged to copy
    them again from the original entries, which was a great trouble
    and expense to him; and towards the end of the year 1717,

    rehe sent the first sheet of the second volume to the press ;

-x
       TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                                       465

solved to proceed in the work at his own cost. Before
his decease, which happened on Dec. 31st, 1719, he had

completed that volume, having been occupied nearly nineteen

years in the prosecution of the work, struggling with difficul
ties of various kinds, and thwarted and opposed in various
ways. It is to his perseverance and public spirit, supported
afterwards by the gratuitous exertions of Mr. Sharp and Mr.
Crosthwait, that we are indebted for the British Catalogue,
and for that vast mass of observations made at the Royal
Observatory, which are still of use in various branches of
astronomical research, and which will render his name illus

trious as long as the science exists.
   The correspondence of Mr. Crosthwait relates principally to

the difficulties, impediments, and delays which still prevented
the work from being brought to a final conclusion ; and it may
be safely stated, that had it not been for the extraordinary
exertions of Mr. Sharp and Mr. Crosthwait, the whole would
never have been completed. The Catalogue was reexamined
and compared with the observations, and afterwards reprinted
with several amendments. The preface cost him much trouble:

it was required to be translated into Latin, but no one could
be found adequate to the task, though repeatedly attempted.
Mr. Pound undertook         but eventually declined it; and
                            it,                                            it

                                    a
was at last accomplished by Dissenting minister. The third
volume was at length finished, and the whole work published
in 1725, six years after Flamsteed's death.
   There remained now only the maps, the construction and en
graving of which appear to have cost as much trouble and vex
ation as the letter-press.   Only one of                them was finished
when Flamsteed died.        For the rest                 we are indebted   (tOoriMonr).

Sharp, who constructed them anew, according to Flamsteed's
principles, from the Catalogue. Sir James Thornhill drew the
figures of the constellations, and recommended engravers for
the work but the charges of the English artists were consi
dered so enormous, that Mr. Crosthwait went over to Holland
for the express purpose of engaging some of the best Dutch;
engravers to complete the work. The vexatious delays which
                                           2
                                                     a
necessarily occurred by adopting this method, its increased ex

pense, and the constant attention requisite to prevent mistakes,

dispirited Mrs. Flamsteed, and temporary stop was conse
quently put to the work, although Mr. Sharp (now much ad
vanced in years) and Mr. Crosthwait were willing to continue
their services. At length, some English engravers being found

who offered to execute the maps at a more moderate expense,
the labours of these gentlemen were renewed, and continued till

1833.                                  h
466 THIRD REPORT 1833.

the time of Mrs. Flamsteed's death, which took place on July

29th, 1730.

   Here the correspondence ceases, probably on account of the
circumstances mentioned in the last letter, whereby it appears
that Mrs. Flamsteed did not leave either Mr. Sharp or Mr.
Crosthwait a single farthing for all their services ; neither had
they received any remuneration since Mr. Flamsteed's death
for their unparalleled exertions in her behalf.

   %* Since the above statement was written, Mr. Baily has

discovered amongst Flamsteed's manuscript papers, deposited
at the Royal Observatory at Greenwich, all the Answers of Mr.
Sharp to the above letters of Flamsteed; thus constituting a
complete correspondence between the parties for nearly eighteen
years.

         CORRIGENDUM IN PROFESSOR POWELL'S PAPER.

   In the abstract, given in the Proceedings of the Physical Section, of Professor
Powell's paper a formula is introduced (p. 377) which the author finds, since
the paper was printed, is incorrect ; this however does not affect the rest of the
paper : but the whole will shortly appear in detail in another form.
                   RECOMMENDATIONS

                                                                    OF

          THE BRITISH ASSOCIATION

                                                FOR THE

              ADVANCEMENT OF SCIENCE.

The following Reports on different Branches of Science have
been drawn up, at the request of the Association.

                              Vol. I.

   On the  pAroirgyr,essM.oAf.A, stPrlounmoimany  during the   present century, by
by G. B.                                          Professor    of Astronomy and

Natural Philosophy, Cambridge.

  On the state of our knowledge respecting Tides, by J. W.

Lubbock, M.A., Vice-President and Treasurer of the Royal
Society.
   On the                                                       state of Meteorology,
by James   Dre.ceFnotrbepsro, gFre.Rss.Sa.,ndPropfreessseonrt  of Natural Philosophy,

Edinburgh.
   On the present state of our knowledge of the Science of

Radiant Heat, by the Rev. Baden Powell, M.A., F.R.S., Sa-
vilian Professor of Geometry, Oxford.
   On Thermo-Electricity, by the Rev. James Cumming, M.A.,
F.R.S., Professor of Chemistry, Cambridge.
                              of Optics,                       by Sir David Brewster,
   On the recent    progress
                  &c.
LL.D., F.R.S.,
   On the recent progress and present state of Mineralogy,
the Rev. Wm. Whewell, M.A., F.R.S.                                      by

   On the progress, actual state, and ulterior prospects of Geo
logy, by the Rev. Wm. D. Conybeare, M.A.,F.R.S., V.P.G.S.,
&c.
   On the recent progress and present state of Chemical Sci
ence, by James F. W. Johnston, A.M., Professor of Chemistry,
Durham.
   On the application of Philological
to the history of the Human Species,              banydJ.PhCy. sPicriaclhaRreds,eaMrc.hDe.s,
F.R.S., &c.
                              2h2
468 THIRD REPORT -- 1833.

                               Vol. II.

On the advances which have recently been              made in certain
branches of Analysis,          I.,) by the  Rev.  G.
F.R.S., &c.            (Part                          Peacock, M.A.,

   On    the present state of  the  Analytical Theory of Hydro
statics  and Hydrodynamics,    by   the Rev. John Challis, M.A.,
F.R.S., &c.
   On the state of our knowledge of Hydraulics, considered as a
branch of Engineering, (Parti.,) by George Rennie, F.R.S.,&c.
   On the state of our knowledge respecting the Magnetism of
the Earth, by S. H. Christie, M.A., F.R.S., Professor of Ma
thematics, Woolwich.
   On the state of our knowledge of the Strength of Materials,
by Peter Barlow, F.R.S.
   On the state of our knowledge respecting Mineral Veins, by
John Taylor, F.R.S., Treas. G. S., &c.
   On the state of the Physiology of the Nervous System, by
William Charles Henry, M.D., F.R.S.
On the recent progress of Physiological Botany, by John
Lindley, F.R.S., Professor of Botany in the University of Lon
don.

   The following Reports have been undertaken to be drawn
up, at the request of the Association.

On the theories of Capillary Attraction and of the Propagation
of Sound as affected by the development     of Heat,           Rev.
John Challis, M.A., F.R.S., &c.                       by  the

   On the state of our knowledge of Hydraulics,       (Part II.,) by
George Rennie, F.R.S.
   On the present state of our knowledge respecting the con
nexion of Electricity and Magnetism, by S. H. Christie, M.A.,
F.R.S., Professor of Mathematics, Woolwich.
   On the state of the science of Physical Optics, by the Rev.
H. Lloyd, M.A., Professor of Natural Philosophy, Dublin.

   On the state of our knowledge respecting the application of
Mathematical and Dynamical principles to Magnetism, Electri
city, Heat, &c, by the Rev. Wm. Whewell, M.A., F.R.S.
   On the recent additions to our knowledge of the Phaenomena

of Sound, by the Rev. R. Willis, F.R.S., &c.
   On the state of our knowledge respecting the relative level

of Land and Sea, and the waste and extension of the land on
the east coast of England, by R. Stevenson, Engineer to the
Northern Light-houses, Edinburgh1.

   1 Communications of facts relative to this subject are much wanted, and may
be addressed to Mr. Stevenson, Civil Engineer, Edinburgh.
                             RECOMMENDATIONS.                           469

   On the state and progress           of Zoology,  by  the  Rev.  Leonard
Jenyns, M.A., F.L.S., &c.
On the state and progress of Systematic Botany, by G. Bent-

ham.
   On the state of our knowledge
Climate upon Vegetation, by the        Rreevs.peJc. tiSn.gHtehneslionwflu, enMce.Ao.,f
Professor of Botany, Cambridge.
liamOnCltahrek,stMate.Do.f,FP.Ghy.sSi.o,logPircoaflesskonrowolfeAdgnea,tombyy,thCeaRmebvr.idWgei.l
   On the state of Pathological knowledge, by John Yelloly,
M.D., F.R.S.

             RECOMMENDATIONS

                   THE COMMITTEES,

   WITH NOTICES OF DESIDERATA IN SCIENCE BY THE
                            AUTHORS OF REPORTS.

[The Recommendations adopted at the Cambridge Meeting have an asterisk
                                                         prefixed.']

                             ASTRONOMY.

The Committee for Mathematical and Physical Science stated,
that it would tend much                the advancement of
                              to       observations of the   astronomy  and
the art of navigation, if    the                            sun, moon,  and

plaIntewtsa,smraedsoelvbeyd  Bradley,  Maskelyne, and Pond, were reduced.
                               by the  General Committee, that a represen
tation to this effect from the British Association be submitted
to Government, in the hope that public provision might be
made for the accomplishment of this great national object ; and
that a deputation, consisting of Professor Airy, Mr. Baily, Mr.
Davies Gilbert, and Sir John Herschel, be appointed to confer
with the Lords of the Treasury on the subject.
   The application was immediately complied with by the Go

vernment, and an advance of 5001. has been made by the Trea
sury towards the reduction of the observations from the year

1750 to the present day.
   470 THIRD REPORT 1838.

   Desiderata noticed in Professor Airys Report, p. 1 87.

       1 . Directions for placing a thermometer so as to indicate cor

   rectly the Temperature of the Air at the place of observation,

   for Refraction-corrections, the external and internal tempera

   tures   being supposed as nearly as possible equal.     --
       2.  Experimental Data for the Theory of Refraction
           What is the law of the decrease of temperature, or of

               density, in ascending ?

           How does this vary at different times ?
           Can any means be contrived for indicating practically at

              different times the modulus of variation?
           Does the refractive power of air depend simply on its

              density, without regard to its temperature ?
           Is it well established that the effects of moisture are al

               most insensible ?

           Can any rule be given for estimating the effect of the
              difference of refraction in different azimuths, accord
              ing to the form of the ground ?

           When the atmospheric dispersion is considerable, what
              part of the spectrum is it best that astronomers should

                   agree to observe ?

      8. An investigation of the coefficient of Nutation from the
   Greenwich circle-observations.
      4. The reduction of Bradley's and Maskelyne's Observations
   of the Sun and Planets, on a uniform plan.

      5. Remeasurement1 of the elongation of Jupiter's Satellites,
   to correct the estimate of the mass of Jupiter.

      6. Separate investigations, from observations, of the diminu
   tion of the aphelion distance and perihelion distance of Encke's
   Comet, for the purpose of testing the truth of Encke's assumed
   law of density of the resisting medium.

      7. Calculations of the perturbations of Biela's Comet for the
   interval between 1772 and 1806, and of those of the node and
   inclination from 1806 to 1826, for the purpose of ascertaining
   the identity of the comet of 1772, and examining whether this
   comet gives any indication of a resisting medium.

      8. Verification of Burckhardt's formulae in the Memoires
   de VInstitut for 1808, and extension of them to terms depend
   ing on the inclination.
      9. Theory of the perturbations of Pallas, and of Encke's

   Comet.

      1 Professor Airy himself has since made the required measurements, and
   given a determination of the mass of Jupiter.

X
                        RECOMMENDATIONS.                           471

                        TIDES.

   * That a sum not exceeding 2001. be devoted to the discussion
of observations of the Tides, and the formation of Tide Tables,
under the superintendence of Mr. Baily, Mr. Lubbock, Rev.
G. Peacock, and Rev. W. Whewell.
That the Association should endeavour to procure the gene
ral establishment of systematic Tide Observations along the
coasts of Great Britain and Ireland, and that the standing Com
mittee on Tides be requested to select such places' as may
appear    to them  most important for this                         di
rection,           possible, the intensity of  purpose ; that the  ob
          and, if                              the wind should be
served, as well as its critical changes after having set for some
time in a particular direction ; and that the altitude of the cur
rents of air should also be, as far as possible, remarked.

                        METEOROLOGY.

   1. That the Committee in India be requested to institute such
observations as may throw light on the horary oscillations of

the barometer near the equator.

   2. That the Committee in India be requested to institute a
series of observations of the thermometer during every hour of

the day and night.
   3. That a similar hourly register be established at some mili
tary or naval station in the South of England2.
   4. That the decrease of temperature at increasing heights in
the atmosphere should be investigated by continued observa
tions at stated hours and known heights. The hours of 9£
a.m. and 8\ p.m., as giving nearly the mean temperature of the
         are suggested   for the purpose. (See    Report, p. 218.)
year,                   travelling on mountains,  or ascending in bal
    5.  That persons
loons, should observe the state of the thermometer, and of the
dew-point hygrometer, below, in, and above the clouds, and
determine how the different kinds of clouds differ in these re

spects. (See       Report on Meteorology,   vol. i. p. 245.)       at
                    temperature of springs  should be observed
   6. That the
different heights above the mean level of the sea, and at dif
ferent depths below the surface of the earth, and compared with

   1 Directions for observing the Tides, extracted from Mr. Lubbock's Report,
and Mr. Whewell's Memoranda, are inserted in the Appendix.

    2 Observations in agreement with this recommendation have been commenced
at Plymouth and DevonpOrt, under the directions respectively of Mr. G. Har
vey and of Mr. Wm. Snow Harris.
472 THIRD REPORT 1833.

the mean temperature of the air and the ground. -- Detached
observations on this subject will be useful, but a continued and
regular series of results for each locality will be more valuable '.
        Report, vol. i. p. 224.)
(See    That series of comparative       experiments  should be made on
    7.
the temperature of the dew-point, and the indications of the
wsheo8tu.-bldTulhbbaethfuyprgatrhroteimcrueilnatevrer,sattiatgenandtteiodtn.habt(SeethepeaRidtehpeotoorrty,thvoeofl.imti.hpipsr.o2ivn4es3mt--reunm2t 4e6no.)tf
the instruments of meteorological research.
9. That Mr. Phillips, and Mr. Wm. Gray, jun., be requested
to undertake a series of observations on the comparative quan
tities of rain falling on the top of the great tower of York Min
ster, and on the ground near its base ; and that similar obser
vations be instituted at other
                                         places2.    consisting  of   Profes
  A standing Committee was               appointed,
sors Airy, Christie, and Forbes, Dr. Dalton, Dr. Robinson, Mr.
Potter, and Mr. Scoresby, to draw up instructions3 for ob
serving Auroras, and to endeavour to establish corresponding
observations in every part of the kingdom.

             Desiderata noticed in Prof. Forbes's Report.

1. Verification of Dr. Dalton's theory of the constitution of
the atmosphere, by direct experiment. (Report, vol. i. p. 206 ;
Phil. Trans. 1826.)
2. Experiments in various latitudes upon the temperature of
the earth at moderate depths, by means of thermometers                "wiitnh
long tubes ; with a view to determine the position of the
variable stratum," where external causes cease to produce any

effect. (Report, vol. i. p. 221.)

1 The height of the springs may be determined with sufficient accuracy by a

com: mTohne  portable barometer.   have  been made at three adjacent  stations  of

             observations at York
known height, with gauges made on the same mould, and measured by one gra
duated glass vessel : they have been continued from the 1st of February 1832
to the present time. From the results, it has been inferred by Mr. Phillips
that the diminution in the quantity of rain, at the higher stations, has a certain
constant dependence on the height of the station, and on the condition of the
air as to moisture in the different periods of the year. For the further elucida
tion of this subject, it is desirable that experiments upon the same plan should
be tried in other situations, and especially where the climate is of a different
character from that of York ; in the humid atmosphere of Cornwall, for exam
ple, and in the drier air of the midland counties. Gauges exactly similar to
those in use at York will be supplied from thence to persons undertaking to try
these experiments, on application to the Secretaries.
   3 An abstract of the directions which have been drawn up by the Committee,
is given in the Appendix.
    RECOMMENDATIONS.                                            473

    3. Experiments on the solar and terrestrial radiation. (Re
port, vol. i. p. 222.)

   4. Observations on the horary oscillations of the barometer,
at considerable heights above the sea. This more particularly
applies to places near the equator1.
    5. Additional observations to determine what is the influence
of the moon on the height of the barometer. (Report, vol. i.
    234. See also Arago,    Annuaire for 1833.)
p.  6. The application of  the hygrometric correction

                                                       to  the  ba

rometric formulae for heights. (Report, vol. i. p. 254.)
   7. Observations on the phsenomena of wind at two stations,
at considerably different elevations, (p. 249.) The direction of
the wind should be noted in degrees, beginning from the south
and proceeding by the west.
    8. Magnetical observations, regularly conducted, especially
with a view to auroral phenomena.

                                  OPTICS,
   * That a sum not exceeding £50 be appropriated to the
construction of a telescopic Lens, or Lenses, out of rock-salt,
under the direction of Sir David Brewster.

      Desiderata noticed in Sir David Brewster's Report.
   The determination of various constants, namely,
   1 . The refractive indices of the two pencils in all crystallized
bodies, measured in reference to definite points of the spectrum.
   2. The angles at which light is polarized by reflection from

crystallized and uncrystallized surfaces.
   3. The inclination of the resultant axes of crystals having

double refraction, for different rays of the spectrum.
   4. The dimensions of the ellipse which regulates the polariza

tion of metals and their alloys.
   5. The circularly polarizing forces of fluids and solutions.
   6. The refractive and dispersive powers of ordinary solid and

fluid bodies, measured according to the method of Fraunhofer.
   7. Experimental determination of the effects of the absorp

tion of light by gases upon the light of the fixed stars, (p. 322.)

    1 Those who may possess such observations, continued for one or more weeks,
with observations of the temperatures of the mercury and of the air, and the
probable corresponding temperatures of the air at the level of the sea, are re
 quested to transmit them to Professor Forbes, Edinburgh. The local position
 of the point of observation should also be noticed.
   474   THIRD REPORT 1833.

         MAGNETISM.

   1 . That a series of observations upon the intensity of Ter
   restrial Magnetism be executed in various parts of the king
   dom, similar to those which have been carried on in Scotland
   by Mr. Dunlop. (Some experiments, made in consequence of
   this recommendation, by Dr. Traill, are given in the published
   Reports of the Association, page 557.)

      2. That observations should be made in various places with
   the Dipping-needle, in order to reduce the horizontal to the

   true  mAagsnteatnicdiningtenCsoitmy.mittee,  charged with promoting these
      *

   objects, has been appointed, consisting of Professors Christie,
   Forbes, and Lloyd. The latter gentleman has undertaken to
   make observations on the magnetic intensity in Ireland, before
   the next Meeting of the Association.

             Desideratum noticed in Prof. Christie's Report.

     * A regular series of observations conducted in this country

   on the diurnal variation of the needle.

                       ELECTRO-MAGNETISM.

      The Committee recommend for further examination the Elec
   tro-magnetic condition of mineral veins. (Consult on this sub
   ject the paper of Mr. Fox, Phil. Trans. 1830.)

         RADIANT HEAT.

         Desiderata noticed in Professor PowelVs Report.

   1. Improvement of the means of obtaining accurate indica
   tions of small degrees of radiant heat : the thermo-multiplier
   of MM. Nobili and Melloni to be subjected to examination1,
   (voDl.etie. rpm. in2a9t7io,n&co.)f the following questions
      2. Do the ratios of the conducting powers                (p.  298.) :      re
   main the same for all thicknesses ?                               substances
                                                                of

   3. It is alleged that in certain cases simple heat is radiated
   freely and directly through transparent media : Is it meant that

      1 Professor Forbes gave an account of the performance of this instrument
   at the Cambridge Meeting.

\
                                 RECOMMENDATIONS.                          475

the manner of its transmission in such cases is strictly analogous
to that in which light is communicated ; or is it only an ex
tremely rapid communication by conduction ? What circum
stances can be fixed upon to determine our view of the matter?
   4. Taking into account the thickness, state of surface, &c,
of a body exposed to radiant heat, does any portion of time
elapse before it acquires heat from the source ; or before it
begins to radiate it again, when acquired ? and how soon will
it commence radiating on the opposite side ; or according to what
law does the heat distribute itself over or through the body ?
These questions are put in reference chiefly to the action of
the body as a screen, and to the possibility of accounting for
an apparently direct transmission of heat without the necessity
of supposing any other principle than that of conduction.

   5. What are the modifications which radiant heat undergoes
in
    6p.asSsiirngJ.thLreosulgieh   small  apertures ? (p. 299.)
                                 found   that the focus for simple  heat,  in the

concave reflectors he used, was different from and nearer to
the reflector than that for light : Is this confirmed by more
extensive and exact observations? and what is the precise focal
distance in different cases? (Leslie's Inquiry, p. 14.)
   7. What is the proportion of heat reflected at different in

cidences ?

    8. What radiation takes place in vacuo ? (p. 300.)

                                 CHEMISTRY.

    1. That British Chemists be invited to make experiments
fAozrotree,m&ovcin, gin  doubts respecting the proportions          of Oxygen,
                         the atmosphere; for determining the        proportions
of Azote and Oxygen in Nitrous Gas and Nitrous Oxide ; and
for more accurately investigating the specific gravity of the
compound gases in general.
   2. That Dr. Dalton and Dr. Prout be requested to institute
experiments on the specific gravities of Oxygen, Hydrogen,
and Carbonic Acid, and that a sum not exceeding 50/. be ap
propriated to defray the expense of any apparatus which may

be required.
    3. That Dr. Turner1 be requested to extend his researches
into the atomic weights of the elementary bodies, and to re
port on the progress recently made in this branch of chemical

science.

   1 Dr. Turner reported the progress of his researches to the Meeting at
Cambridge.
476 THIRD REPORT 1833.

   4-. That Mr. Johnston 1 be requested to undertake the expe
riments which have been suggested to the Committee, into the
comparative analysis of Iron in the different stages of its ma

nufacture.

    *5. That a series of experiments on the effects of long-con
tinued heat be instituted at some iron-furnace, or in any other
suitable situation ; and that a sum not exceeding 50/. be placed
at the disposal of a Sub-Committee, consisting of Professor
Daubeny, Rev. W. V. Harcourt, Professor Sedgwick, and
Professor Turner, to meet any expense which may be in
curred 2.

   *6. That inquiry be made as to the most perfect method of
purifying Mercury, and that the true specific gravity of the

metal be determined.

   *7. That an examination be made into the nature and quan
tity of the gases given off from thermal waters, whether there
be any variation in these respects according to season of the
year, hours of the day, or condition of the atmosphere ; and
whether there be any changes of temperature in the same

waters.

   *8. That the gaseous products which are discharged from
the chimneys of smelting and other furnaces and fireplaces be
examined, at various periods of the operations carried on in
them, with a view of ascertaining the compounds which are
formed when the processes are most successfully conducted,
and also of detecting the existence of compounds which may
perhaps be new or valuable.

                          MINERALOGY.

   1. That Professor Miller be requested to undertake an ex
amination of the form and optical characters of those Crystal
lized Bodies which have not been previously determined, and
that Chemists be invited to send him specimens of perfect ar
tifi2c.iaTlhCartysDtar.lsT. urner, Professor Miller, Mr. Brooke, and the
Rev. Wm. Whewell, be requested to cooperate in prosecuting
and promoting the following inquiries, with a view to examine
the theory of Isomorphism, and the connexion between the
crystalline forms and chemical constitution of Minerals :

   1 Mr. Johnston reported the progress of his researches to the Cambridge
Meeting.

   * These experiments have been instituted by Mr. Harcourt, in Yorkshire, at
the Low Moor Iron Works, the property of Messrs. Hird and Co., and at the
Elsecar Furnace, belonging to Earl Fitzwilliam.
                                      RECOMMENDATIONS.                 477

    1. ) To determine whether the angles of varieties of the same
species (in the usual acceptation of identity of species) are
identically the same, under various circumstances of colour,
appearance, and locality ; and if not, what are the differences.
          To determine the chemical constitution of such varieties,
--  2. )   specimens, mineralogically and chemically examined,
    the

being in all cases the same.

   3. ) To determine what quantity of extraneous substances
may be mixed with a crystalline salt, without altering its form.

   4. ) To determine the angles of the various species or vari
eties of isomorphous or plesiomorphous groups, and their

respective chemical composition1.

           Desiderata noticed in Mr. WhewelVs Report.

   1. To determine the optical differences on which depend the
distinctions of the different kinds of lustre, metallic, ada

mantine, vitreous, resinous, pearly.

   2. To determine whether the oblique rhombic prism consti
tutes a real system of crystalline forms, or is a hemihedral
form of the right prism.

   3. To determine the limits of magnitude and simplicity in

crystallometrical ratios.

  4. To determine whether chemical groups are strictly iso

morphous, or only plesiomorphous.

   5. To determine whether the angles of plesiomorphous

crystals are separated by definite or by indefinite steps.

   6. To determine what are the differences of chemical com
position corresponding to differences of optical structure in re

sembling minerals, as apophyllite, tesselite, leucocyclite.

                                      GEOLOGY.

   *1. That measurements should be made, and the necessary
data procured to determine the question of the permanence or
change of the relative level of Sea and Land on the coasts of
Great Britain and Ireland ; and that for this purpose a sum not
exceeding £100 be placed at the disposal of a Sub-Committee,
consisting of Mr. Greenough, Mr. Lubbock, Mr. G. Rennie,
                                      Mr. Stevenson, and the Rev. W.   Whewell :
--Prothfeessmoer aSsuerdegmweinctks,                                   the means
                                      to be so executed as to furnish

of reference in future times, not only as to the relative levels

   1 Professor Miller reported the progress of these inquiries to the Cambridge
Meeting.
478 THIRD REPORT -- 1833,

of the land and sea, but also as to waste or extension of the

land.   bTehraeqt uMesrt.edRotgoefrusrn(iPsrhofeanssaocrcooufntChoefmthisetrpyroignrePshsilwahdiechl

   *2.
phia)
has been made in investigating the Geology of the United States

America.
   3. That Professor Phillips be requested to draw up, with such
cooperation as he may procure, a Systematic Catalogue of all
the organized fossils of Great Britain and Ireland, hitherto de
scribed, with such new species as he may have an opportunity
of accurately examining'.

   4. That Mr. John Taylor be requested to collect detailed
sections of the Carboniferous series of Flintshire, with a view
to a comparison with the same series in other parts of England ;
--with a view also of ascertaining the circumstances under which
the Mountain Limestone is developed, after its suppression in
certain coal-fields in the central parts of England.

   5. That the attention of Geologists be invited to those coal
districts in the midland counties of England, where, the Car
boniferous Limestone and Old Red Sandstone being deficient,
                                                                  Grauwacke
the coal measures    --rwesitthimamvmieewdiattoelydisocnovtehre  whether any  and
Transition rocks ;
                                                                              cir
cumstances connected with the physical structure of that part
of the island can be stated, explanatory of the local absence of

the two great formations above mentioned.

   6. That sections and plans should also be collected of the
Coal-fields of Worcestershire, Shropshire, Staffordshire, Che
shire, Lancashire*, and the south-western part of Yorkshire3.

   7. That the Faults or Dykes in the carboniferous rocks in
Flintshire should be examined, with a view to ascertain whether

some remarkable differences in their character may not be
observed, as compared with that of veins and dykes in other
districts.
   *8. That collections  be made of accurate         plans       of " heaves "
in the Veins of Cornwall and the North of England, with a
view to determine how far the apparently horizontal heaves may
be explained by vertical motion.

   *9. That the direction, intersection, inclination, and breadth

   1 Thia catalogue is commenced, several   monographs are composed,       and a
general basis is arranged. Communications,                                notices
                                               lists of organic remains,
of localities, and specimens of new or undescribed species may be addressed to
Mr. Phillips, Museum, York.
3 Mr. Elias Hall of Castleton has constructed a map and sections of the Lan

cashire coal-field.

8 Mr. Hartop exhibited at the Cambridge Meeting a correct map and de
tailed section of the coal strata on the river Dun.
                    RECOMMENDATIONS.                  479

of the non-metalliferous fissures which cross the planes of the
strata, and in some instances divide many contiguous strata,
should be observed, in relation to the same circumstances in
the dykes and mineral veins of the vicinity ; with a view to
ascertain whether there be any and what connexion between

these phaenomena1.
*10. That the history of ancient vegetation should be further
examined, by prosecuting the researches into the anatomy of
fossil wood which have been exemplified in Mr. Witham's re

cent volume.
   1 1 . That the quantity of Mud and Silt contained in the water
of the principal rivers of Great Britain should be ascertained,
distinguishing, as far as may be possible, the comparative quan
tity of sediment from the water at different depths, in different
parts of the current, and at different distances from the mouth
of the river ; distinguishing also any differences in the quality
of the sediment, and estimating It at different periods of the
year ; with a view of explaining the hollowing of valleys, and
the formation of strata at the mouths of rivers.
   12. That the experiments of the late Mr. Gregory Watt, on
the fusion and slow cooling of large masses of stony substances,
should be repeated and extended by those who, from proximity
to large furnaces, have an opportunity of trying such experi
ments on a large scale ; and that trial should be made of the
effect of long-continued high temperature on rocks containing
petrifactions, in defacing or modifying the traces of organic
structure, and of the effect of the continued action of steam or
of water at a high temperature, in dissolving or altering mine
rals of difficult solution.
*13. That the dimensions of the bones of extinct animals

should be expressed numerically in tables, so as to show the
exact relations of their dimensions to those of animals now
living ; and also to show what combinations of dimensions in
the*  same    animal no longer exist.
        1 4.  That the following Geological  queries  be proposed :
   1. ) Are there any instances of contorted rocks interposed
between strata not contorted ?
   2. ) Is there any instance of secondary rocks being altered in
texture or quality by contact with gneiss or primary slates ?

   3.) Is the occurrence of cannel coal generally connected with
faults or dislocations of the strata ?

   1 Mr. Phillips has undertaken to state the results of his examination on this
subject in certain parts of the North of England, and requests to be favoured
with communications relating thereto.
     480 THIRD REPORT -- 1833.

        4. ) What is the nature of the pebbles in the new red sand
     stone conglomerate in different districts : do they ever consist
     of granite, gneiss, mica-slate, chert, millstone grit, or any other
     sandstone which can be distinctly traced to the coal series ?
        5. ) Is the Red Sandstone of Kelso contemporaneous with
     that of Salisbury Crags ; and what relation do they respectively
     bear to the adjacent coal-fields ?
     6. ) What is the exact northern boundary of the coal-field of
     the River Liddle?
        7. ) What are the relations as to age of               series of whin
     rocks, one running north-east along the      the two      in Roxburgh

                                                  Liddle
     shire, the other south-east in the neighbourhood of Melrose

     and Jedburgh ?
        8. ) Can the Limestone of Closeburn in Dumfriesshire be re
     cognised beyond that valley?
        9. ) Does the Wealden formation exist in the midland counties
     of England ?

        10. ) What is the character of the districts in which ores of

     manganese occur ?

        11. ) What is the history of the Haematite of Dalton in Lan
     cashire, in relation to the beds in which it occurs ?
        12. ) What are                     characters of the
     beds comprised in  the mineralogical  of the Strata in the     several
                        Forster's Section
                                                                    North
     of England ; and what are the fossils contained in each ?

     Desiderata noticed in Mr. Conybeare's Report.

     1. An accurate examination of the conclusions deducible from
     the known density of the earth, as to the solid structure and
     composition of the interior.
     2. The attention of residents in our remote foreign depen
     dencies is invited to the two great questions of comparative
     Geology and Palaeontology. 1. Is there or is there not such a
     general uniformity of type in the series of rock-formations in
     distant countries, that we must conceive them to have resulted
     from general causes of almost universal prevalence at the same
     geological aera ? 2. Are the organic remains of the same geo
     logical period specifically similar in very remote districts, and
     more especially under climates actually different ; or are they
     grouped together within narrower boundaries, and under re
     strictions as to geographical habitats analogous to those which
     prevail in the actual           of things? (p. 410.)
        3. An examination   system  geological structure   of  the  countries

                            of the
     constituting the great basin of the Indus, where, if in any part
     of India, it is supposed a complete series of secondary strata
     may be expected, (p. 396.)

~-S
       RECOMMENDATIONS.  481

   Desideratum noticed in Mr. Taylor's Report on Mineral

                                                  Veins.

  A correct account of the affinity that the contents of a vein

bear to certain of the rocks in which the fissure may be situated.

                             ZOOLOGY.

  The Committee recommend to the consideration of Zoologists
the following subjects of inquiry :

   *1. The use of horns in the class Mammalia; the reason of
their presence in the females of some, and their absence in those
of other species ; the connexion between their development and
sexual periods ; the reason of their being deciduous in some
tribes, and persistent in others.

   *2. The use of the lachrymal sinus in certain families of the
Ruminantia.

   *3. The conditions which regulate the geographical distri
bution of Mammalia.

   *4. The changes of colour of hair, feathers, and other ex
ternal parts of animals ; how these changes are effected in parts
usually considered by anatomists as extra- vascular.

   *5. The nature and use of the secretions of certain glands
immediately under the skin, above the eyes, and over the nos
trils, in certain species of the Grallatores and Natatores ; the
nature and use of the secretion of the uropygial gland.

    *6. How long and in what manner can the impregnated ova

of fishes be preserved, for transportation, without preventing

vivification when the spawn is returned to water.
   ·7. Further observations on the supposed metamorphosis of

Decapod Crustacea, with reference to the views of Thompson
and Rathke.

    *8. Further observations on the situation of the sexual or
gans in male spiders, and on their supposed connexion with the
palpi.

    *9. The use of the antennae in insects. Are they organs of
hearing, of smell, or of a peculiar sensation ?

    *10. The function of the femoral pores in Lizards, and the
degree of importance due to them as offering characters for

 classification.

       BOTANY.

1 . That Botanists in all parts of Great Britain and Ireland
be invited to compose and communicate to the Meeting of the
       2i
1833.
482                          THIRD REPORT 1833.

Association, Catalogues of County or other local Floras, with
indications of those species which have been recently intro
duced, of those which are rare or very local, and of those which
thrive, or which have become, or are becoming extinct ; with
such remarks as may be useful towards determining the con
nexion which there may be between the habitats of particular
plants, and the nature of the soil and the strata upon which they
grow ; with statements of the mean winter and summer tempe
rature of the air and the water, at the highest as well as the
lowest elevation at which species occur ; the hygrometrical
condition of the air, and any other information of an historical,

ceconomical, and philosophical nature.
*2. That Professor Daubeny be requested to institute an ex
tended inquiry into the exact nature of the secretions by the
roots of the principal cultivated plants and weeds of agriculture;
and that the attention of Botanists and Chemists be invited to
the degree in which such secretions are poisonous to the plants
that yield them, or to others ; and to the most ready method of
                                                         other means.
dec*omApoCsoinmgmitthteeese  secretions  by manure or    a series of experi
                             was formed    to conduct

ments on the growth of plants from seeds, and to preserve the
results of their experiments, in order to establish the identity
or confirm the specific distinctions of certain allied plants, and
to communicate the results obtained, from year to year, at the
Meetings of the Association.
Mr. Don, Librarian to the Linnaean Society, has undertaken
to be the channel of correspondence on this subject.

        Desiderata noticed in Professor Lindleys Report.
        An accurate account   "oPfetrhheapms anthneerre  in  which the woody
    1.  of plants is formed.                             is  no mode of pro

part
ceeding to elucidate this point, which would be more likely to
lead to positive results, than a very careful anatomical examina
tion of the progressive development of the mangel wurzel, be
ginning with the dormant embryo, and ending with the perfectly
formed plant."
2. An investigation of the comparative anatomy of flowerless
plants, with a view to discover in them the analogy and origin
of their organic structure.
3. The cause of the various colours of plants.
4. The nature of the faecal excretions of cultivated plants,
and of common weeds ; the degree in which those excretions
are poisonous to the plants that yield them or to others ; the
most ready means of decomposing such excretions by manures
or other means.
                RECOMMENDATIONS.                                            483

              ANATOMY AND PHYSIOLOGY.

   *1. That the effects of poison on the animal oeconomy should
be investigated and illustrated by graphic representations ; and
that a sum not exceeding 251. be appropriated for this object.
Dr. Roupell and Dr. Hodgkin were requested to undertake this

investigation.

   *2. That an experimental investigation should be made of
the sensibilities of the Nerves of the Brain ; and that a sum not
exceeding 251. should be appropriated to this object. Dr.
Marshall Hall and Mr. S. D. Broughton were requested to un

dertake these experiments.

                                 ARTS.

   * That Mr. Dent be requested to communicate to the next
Meeting of the Association, a statement of the performance of
his chronometer with a glass balance-spring.

  Desideratum noticed by Professor Barlow in his Report on
                       the Strength of Materials.

  A set of experiments on the application of a straining force

on vertical columns (of timber, iron, &c).

                          STATISTICS.

*1. That Colonel Sykes be requested to prepare for publi
cation his valuable statistical returns, collected by himself in
India, relative to the four Collectorates of the Deccan, subject
to the Bombay Government.
*2. That Professor Jones be requested to endeavour to ob
tain permission to examine the statistical records understood to
exist in great number in the archives of the India House, and
to prepare an account of the nature and extent of them.
*3. The inquiries of this section are restricted to facts re
lating to communities of men which are capable of being ex
pressed by numbers, and which promise, when sufficiently
                                                  laws.
mu*ltiApliepde,rmtoanienndticatCeomgmenitetreael              section  was  appointed.
                                                   of this
Professor Babbage was requested to act as Chairman, and Mr.
Drinkwater as Secretary.
In a Report since addressed to the Council by this Committee,
it is stated, that the Committee having deemed it expedient to
promote the formation of a Statistical Society in London, a
                                                          of  March,   1834, at which
public meeting  was held  on  the                 i215th
                                2
4-84                  THIRD REPORT -- 1883.

it was resolved to establish such an institution. The Society
already includes more than three hundred members, and has
issued a statement of its objects and regulations, which is sub
joined in the Appendix.
   The Committee remark,  that  " though     the want of such    a

society has been long felt and acknowledged, the successful
establishment of    it,
                       it
                           is

                                 a

                                                       ;

                                                                                                        a
                      after every previous attempt had failed,
has been due altogether to the impulse given by the last Meet
ing of the Association. The distinguished foreigner (M.
Quetelet) who contributed so materially to the formation of the
Statistical Section, was attracted to England principally with
view of attending that meeting and the Committee hail this
as a signal instance of the beneficial results to be expected
from that personal intercourse among the enlightened men of
all countries, which      principal object of the British As

sociation to encourage and facilitate."

                    GENERAL SCIENCE.

   * That a sum not exceeding 100/. be appropriated towards
the execution of a plan proposed by Professor Babbage, for
collecting and arranging the Constants of Nature and Art1.

               APPENDIXif

  CONTAINING DIRECTIONS FOR OBSERVATIONS ON THE TIDES,

                         AURORA BOREALIS, &c

                                TIDES.

Observations of Tides along the coasts of Great Britain
and Ireland will be valuable, both in the construction of more
accurate tide tables, and as data towards the perfection of the
theory of tides.

   Observations of the tides should record particularly,
   The time in hours and minutes, and height of high water
daily, or convenient every tide.
   The time and height of low water.

          See Appendix, p. 490, for an Abstract of Mr. Babbage's Plan.
                                RECOMMENDATIONS.        485

    The direction of the wind, and the height of the barometer

and thermometer.
    The direction and velocity of the stream of flow and ebb.
   At what  hour (with respect to the time              of high water and
            the slack water after the stream            of flood, and after
low water)
the stream of ebb, respectively occur.
    The height of the water must be given from some fixed mark
or line, which should be described accurately, so that it may
be easily found again at a future time. The observer ought to
state the manner in which the height was measured ; the man
ner in which the moment of high water was fixed upon ; the
time employed, whether apparent or mean solar time, and how
it was obtained.
   The height of the water at the end of every minute, for
half an hour before the expected time of high water, and until
there can be no doubt that the time of high water is past.
Machines to dispense with this minute attention are described
in the Philosophical Transactions, 1831, and in the Nautical
Magazine for October 1832'.
    The uncertainty occasioned by waves may be avoided by
making the observation in a chamber, to which the water has
access by a small opening, or by fixing in the water an upright
tube, (of wood or iron, for instance,) the bottom or sides of the
tube being perforated ; in either case an upright measuring
rod, carefully graduated, and connected to a float, will rise and
fall with the tide, and permit, at any moment, the height of the
water to be read off- against the collar through which it works.
This rod may be so constructed as to leave a moveable index

at  Athelohnigghseesritesanodf  lowest points.
                                continued observations
                                                        can alone be of use
towards the determination of the dependence of the time,
height, and other circumstances of high and low water upon
the places and distances of the sun and moon ; but a smaller
number of observations will often be sufficient to determine the
establishment of any place, with more or less accuracy, accord
ing to the number of observations ; and the best mode of do
ing this is by comparative observations with some place of
which the establishment is accurately known, or where obser

vations are continually carried on. A few sets of comparative

observations of neighbouring places will give the relative time
of high water at these places with considerable accuracy ; and
thus the motion of the tide-wave and the arrangement of the

   1 Tide-guagcs may be seen in operation at St. Katharine's Docks, London.
An excellent one has lately been set up near Bristol by the Literary and Phi
losophical Institution of that city.
486                  THIRD REPORT 1833.

cottdal lines   (or  lines along   which   it is high  water at the same
instant,) will   be   discovered.          would be    very desirable for
                                       It
those who have the opportunity, to combine so as to effect the
detailed description of the tides through some small extent of
coast, such as that which has been effected by M. Daussy for
the west coast of France.

                      AURORA BOREALIS.

    Notwithstanding the attention which has been paid to the
phaenomena of the Aurora Borealis, and the various hypotheses
which have been imagined to explain them, it will be found
that there is a want of information on the points which are
most necessary as bases of induction ; and the British Asso
ciation have therefore been induced to appoint a Committee in
the express view of directing observers to the really important
features of this meteor, and of obtaining, by a system of con
temporaneous observation, data which experience shows cannot
be derived from insulated exertion.

   The following are the most important points which demand
the attention of observers:

    1. The elevation of the auroral arches and streamers above
the surface of the earth.

   2. The determination of the question whether the auroral
exhibition is accompanied by sound.

   3. The existence of recurring periods of frequency and bril
liancy in the Aurora.

   4. The influence of arches, streamers, and other auroral

phaenomena upon the magnetic needle.

   1.) It is recommended to all who intend to observe Auroras,
to make themselves well acquainted with the names of all the
principal stars to the north of the equator, especially those
which do not set here. This will be most easily done by stu
dying a celestial globe. Good maps of the stars may also be
consulted with advantage. Either the proper names or the
Greek characters with the name of the constellation will be

sufficient.
   Persons who may prefer to determine the angular elevation

and position of the arches and streamers by graduated instru
ments, must be supposed well accustomed to the use of them ;
they may, however, be reminded, that telescopic sights are
for this purpose useless, and that steady instruments, which
can be handled with ease and expedition, are much more avail
\
1
I

        UROKA BOREALIS

        i TIME.

                            CAMBRIDGE.

                               Profestor Airy.

          N. Lat. 52 · 13'                                                                                                      Long. E. 0» 6'

    25. --The-«urora appeared in the form of a large bright cloud, bounded on

   wer side by the horizon, and on the upper side by an arch of a small circle
   differing much from a great circle). The extremities of the arch were in
   f. E. and W. N. W. or nearly W. The upper boundary was lower than /8
    Majoris by § X distance from a Ursa: Majoris to (S Ursa Majoris. Several
   . black clouds were scattered over the aurora-cloud, and above it were several
   y illuminated, whose light appeared to originate simply in the illumination

   e   aurora.    change,  except that  the  whole  appeared                                                                    to have moved a little  to
   i.
       35. -- No

   vest.
   i. 58 The form and brightness of the arch had not sensibly altered ; but a

       black cloud on its face attracted particular attention. The western cx-
   slity of this cloud was below y Ursa; Majoris, its horizontal length fully three
       the distance from /6 Ursa; Majoris to y Visas Majoris, its vertical breadth
    than one-fourth of its length, the eastern end being somewhat broader than

    western. The aurora-cloud suddenly formed itself into streamers, (or
   amers were formed in front of some perhaps 30° or 40° high, but lasting in
ei i
                   a

                                                     ; it)
                                                                                               ;

                                                                      J

                                                                                                                        ;
                                                                                                                                                     ;
   state only for an instant, and two streamers of sensible breadth shot up either
   front of the black cloud or through it, so as to illuminate it, near its western
   remity in two nearly vertical lines, corresponding to the course of the
   earners, whose upper and lower parts were visible above and below the cloud,

   remarkable change in the constitution of the cloud followed immediately the
   stern half became curdly, the upper edge of its small portions being luminous
   western half began to disappear at 9. 15. no trace of the cloud discoverable.
   9. 10.-- A shooting star from E. to W. very nearly through                                                                   Ursa; Majoris.

      light of the aurora-cloud gradually diminished the part which remained
   gest was little K. of N. where some light was still visible at 10. 30.

   lund the dipping-needle to be unaffected by this aurora at Armagh. It was

      the dark segment was formed at about 124 n- the phenomena ceased
       'he greatest intensity of the aurora was in the direction of the magnetic
/
      h !\                                                                                                                                      of U.
                                ,                                                                                                               lower
               I>
                                          <,
                                                                     a
                                                                                     ;
                                                                                                                             >
rtate *^i,  at 8. 34. low arch was seen there passing below the feet
            middle) above the horizon at 8. 50. the lower edge of the
y. its* ^
   was
%
                     RECOMMENDATIONS.                                 487

able for observations of these faint and often fluctuating me
teors than others of a more refined construction.
   2. ) It is recommended that a magnetic needle be kept in a

proper place, suspended by a silk fibre or slender hair, (a
point-support not being delicate enough,) and so mounted that

deviations can be observed to the accuracy of V. It has been
found convenient to fix in a garden a stone pedestal, on which,
at three invariable points, the frame of the magnetic needle
rests under a glass cover. The needle, 9 inches long, and of
such a weight as to perform about 10 vibrations in a minute, is
suspended by one slender hair. There are simple contrivances

to steady the needle when required, and to adjust the length
of the suspending hair. The scale is divided in degrees for
30° on each side of the centre, and in 10' for 1° on each side.
There is no vernier, but the place of the needle on the scale
is read off with great ease by looking through a fixed magni
fying glass, from an opening at some height above, so as to
avoid sensible parallax. Professor Christie has described more
complete apparatus for this purpose, in the Journal of the
Royal Institution, New Series, vol. ii. p. 278. The observer
must leave his watch with the assistant, very carefully remove
all keys, knives, and other things containing iron, from his
Ifdress, and all loose iron tools and utensils, to at least 20 feet
distance from the needle.         these precautions are not scru
pulously attended to, the results will be fallacious. It is proper
to caution the observer that there is a regular daily variation
of the needle, independent of the Aurora.
   Dipping-needles, unless constructed               with the utmost
cannot be considered very satisfactory                 instruments ;    care,

                                                                      yet, if

their suspension be sufficiently delicate, they may probably
very well answer for observations during Aurora, of which the
object is to determine not the absolute dip of the needle, but
the change     of dip occasioned by   the Aurora. The same pre
                                      removal of iron, &c, are ne
cautions of    one certain position,
cessary, as in the use of the horizontal needle.
   3. ) It is                                           be made for ascer
               recommended that   arrIafngneemarenatns  observatory of any
taining the                                           with         transit clock
               error of a watch.                     there        good meridian

kind,   the watch    should  abneAucroomrapar: eidf          the
there,  immediately   after                                 is a

Ifline or good dial, the error of the watch on mean time should
be found as soon as possible.         a watchmaker in the neigh
bourhood has a good regulator, the watch should be adjusted
by and the mode of keeping the regulator should be ascer
it,            a mail-coach from London passes near, the guard's

      :

     if
tained
watch may be consulted. The longitude of the place of ob
488 THIRD REPORT -- 1833.

servation should be ascertained from a map or otherwise. The
attention of observers is especially called to the point of ascer
taining the time correctly, as it is one of the most important
points, and the one which probably will require the longest

forethought.
   4. ) In default of intelligence of an Aurora, the observer

should go out of doors to some station where the horizon is
pretty clear, and look about every evening at 10, Greenwich
mean solar time, as near as may be. He should keep a journal,
noting for this time every evening whether there was an Aurora :
a single word will be sufficient.
   5. ) As soon as the    iofbascecruvsetor mpeedrcetivoesmaogrnereticceivoebssenrvoatictieonos,f
an Aurora, he should,

observe the    magnetic   needle, and should  gaondtoasonmotee-bcoomokm. andA
ing situation   with his  watch in his hand,

person so prepared will have little difficulty in fixing on the ap
pearances most worthy of notice. We may, however, point
Ifout the following :

      I. there is an arch, the positions of its two boundaries,
            its terminations, &c, should be noted by the way in
which they pass among the stars, (the proportion of
distances between the stars admitting of very accu
rate estimation by the eye). If, as rarely happens,

      the sky is cloudy, the observer may notice the ele
      vation and extent of the arch, by moving till it appears
      to touch the top of some terrestrial object, noting his
      situation as well as he can, and the next day observing
     with a theodolite the angular elevation and azimuth of
      the object ; or ascertaining the height and horizontal
      distance, and thence computing the angular elevation,
      and observing the azimuth by a common compass : but
      it is recommended not to adopt this method when the
      observation of stars is practicable. Notice should be
      taken whether one edge is better defined than the
      other; whether there is a clear sky or dark cloud
      above or below ; whether it terminates at the end in
      sky or in cloud ; whether there is any dark band in
it ; whether in its general composition it is uniform or
     striated ; whether stars can be seen through it, &c.
IfII.   any change takes place in the situation or appear
      ance of the arch, the observer should instantly look

      at his watch and set down the time, and then proceed

IfIII.to note the change.   or     streamers,  the time should be
           there are beams
noted ; then their position among the stars ; then their
                       RECOMMENDATIONS.                                  489

            height among the stars ; their motion (whether vertical
            or horizontal) ; the velocity of motion (by the time of
            passing from one star to another) ; their changes ; their
            permanency ; whether they appear to affect the arch,
           Ifor to be entirely in front of it.

       IV. there are any black clouds in the luminous region,
            notice should be taken whether the streamers seem to
            have any relation to them ; whether the arch seems
            to have any relation to them ; whether and in what

          Ifmanner they increase or disappear.

       V. there are waves or flashes of light, the observer
            should notice the time of beginning and of finishing;
            the general extent of the flashes (up and down, as
            well as right and left) ; whether the flash is a real
            progress of light or successive illumination of different
                                               that strikes him.
       VI.  places ; and anything else         of colours will, of       course,
            The existence and change

               be noticed.

       IfVII. From time to time, the needle should be observed.

                 there are two persons capable of accurate obser
            vation, it is most desirable that one should steadily
            watch the needle, and the other the sky.
   6. ) When all is over, the observer should immediately put
his rough notes in form, and as soon as possible should com
pare his watch with the regulator or other authority for his

time.
   7. ) The next day he should, from a celestial globe, take the
altitudes and azimuths by means of the stars ; he should reduce
his observed time to Greenwich mean solar time, and he should
append these reductions to his rough observations. In this
state the observations are fit for publication, and adapted for

immediate use. It is desirable that they should be transmitted
without delay to the Assistant Secretary of the British Asso

ciation, Museum, York.

                       FALLING STARS.

M. Quetelet's mode of observing and recording the charac
teristic circumstances of these meteors is contained in the fol
                       of a letter
low"inIgtaekxetrmacyt  station out  from him   :   a  situation  which com
                                    of doors,
        a good view of the sky,                in     mapappeaorfs,thIe
        out before me. When
mands                               with a good                          heavens
spread                              a falling star                       mark on
the map the point of its commencement, the line of its course
490                       THIRD REPORT 1833.

amongst the nearest stars, and the point where it vanished.
This is done by an arrow-line, which marks the apparent di
rection and extent of the course of the meteor. The time is
carefully noted ; a number of reference is placed on the line,
and the principal circumstances of the meteor are then regi
stered in tables of the following form :

                          Magnitude  Duration of         Time of
             No. relative to Stars, the Appearances.  Appearance.               Remark-.
     Epoch.
             12                      2"-5             10h 6' 4".
Aug. 29

   It is important to remark whether the falling star leaves, or
not, any trace of its course, as sometimes happens, in the form
of reddish scintillations. The condition of the atmosphere, as

determined by the usual instruments, should be noted : the
time must be accurately ascertained. More than one observer
should be engaged at each station, because the meteors some
times succeed one another very quickly, and the duration of
the phenomenon is too short to permit one person to note the
position, time, and circumstances of each, with sufficient pre-

           CONSTANTS OF NATURE AND ART.

" Amongst those works of science which are too large and
too laborious for individual                       aIrewitshherteofopreoinfitt
to be undertaken by united           efforts, and                               objects
                                     academies,                                 out one

which seems eminently necessary at the present time, and which
would be of the greatest advantage to all classes of the sci
            world.
Ient"ific  would propose  that its title should be The Constants of
Nature and of Art.        It ought to contain all those facts which

can be expressed by numbers in the various sciences and arts."
(Babbage, Edinburgh Journal          of Science, N.   S., No. 12.)
   The following extracts from       Mr. Babbage's     general plan             of
contents will exemplify the objects and arrangement of the
proposed work.
These contents should consist of:
odrisbt1iat. n, cA&ellco,th--f eepacrcoohnpsoptarlatnintoentq, uo--afnptliietgirehisotdrbeoecfleoirvneegvdinoglufrttoioomno,ut--hr eisnyscsultinen,ma--ti;o--fonracoes,f
of gravity on the surface of each, &c.

    1 Contemporaneous observations are especially desirable on this subject.
Persons desirous of undertaking the investigation are therefore requested to
apply to a member of the Auroral Committee, or to the Assistant Secretary
at York, for information of the evenings and hours appointed for this purpose.
                      RECOMMENDATIONS.      491

hefrelaea32cct..t,tirv--iTLcehiiscteypto,ona--wodtoufetmcret,thin--icneagcpwimtryeope,ipgot--aowhlrtsets,ripooefnwfcoiibftroiohcdf eierclahseo.yelcusatmrti,rcne--isftlyec,cof--tonerddmusepcolettuiicnntifggioc fppgo1ori0wan0vte0,irt--, y--,fr--oeart
an incidence of 90°.
ewset45ig..lehnLStg,ips--tehtc,wi--foeicfiigtgsmhrtaasmvmoiftmaielslakselesiatle,otfcoiwnrac,ilutl--hmbfowecdreoieeliungsmc.hetn, so--f feoiatrschhsepbiegocnhifeti,c, ----gliretasnvggittryhe,,a----t
--bnrauirtmntihoubn,me--borefoorlfiffoeysf,uo--ciunknspignprgoiarp,at--otairotonbiofsirnmtphoae, ftr--ummrniatiunlyemu,st--bete,otr--efmeomppfeaeprlreiuaostldsuaproetri,ofodbn--ulsicnapedvedner,reams&gscien.au&fdtteuec,.r
   After enumerating twenty such general heads of Constants,
Mr. Babbage observes, that "most of them already exist, and
that the difficulty of collecting them consists chiefly in a judi
cious selection of those which deserve the
                                            "grteoatinesstertcotnhfeidehnecaed.s
It would be desirable, however," he adds,
of many columns, although not a single number could be placed
in them ; for they would thus point out many an unreaped field
within our reach, which requires but the arm of the labourer
to gather its produce into the granary of science." Mr. Bab

bage expresses his opinion, that if any scientific body of men
would undertake to form such a collection, and to revise it from
time to time, it would be a work fraught with advantages to
knowledge, by continually leading to the more accurate deter
mination of established facts, and to the discovery and mea
surement of new ones.

   Persons desirous of undertaking or cooperating in the exe-
ecution of any of theforegoing Recommendations, are requested
to make known their intention to the Secretaries of the British

Association, Museum, York.
              PROSPECTUS

                                                               OF THE

              OBJECTS AND PLAN

                                                               OF THE

STATISTICAL SOCIETY OF LONDON,

                    Founded on the 1 5th March, 1834.

The Statistical      Society of London       has  pbuebelinsheinsgta"blFisahcetds
for the purposes of                         and                                          of
                     procuring, arranging,
calTcuhlaeteSdtattoisiltluicsatrlateSotchieeCtyonwdiiltliocnonasnidderPriot stpoebctes  the  Society."
                                                                                             first and

mnaitootensntstieofrsnosmernitgiaiotlsroruturslaleynsoatofctifitoasnctssc,o--nadnuadcntd,ptuaosbelifcxaacrtluioadsnesi,tc--amrteoafyuclolbynefainlfelouonpitdis
possible, to facts which can be stated numerically and ar
ranged in tables.
                        of the Society  will probably be to sub
   The first operation
divide and organize its general council in such a manner as may
enable that council to deal conveniently with all the subdivisions
of the subject-matter before it. Those subdivisions will ne

cessarily be numerous.

   The whole subject was considered, by the Statistical Section
of the British Association at Cambridge, as admitting a division

into four great classes :
           1. Economical Statistics.
           2. Political Statistics.
           3. Medical Statistics.
           4. Moral and      Intellectual Statistics.
If  these                                                                                    ana
           four classes are  taken as the basis of a further
lysis, it will be found that the class of
Economical Statistics comprehend, 1st, the statistics of the
natural productions and the agriculture of nations ; 2ndly, of
manufactures ; 3rdly, of commerce and currency ; 4thly, of
the distribution of wealth, or all facts relating to rent, wages,

profits, &c.
Political Statistics furnish three subdivisions : 1st, the facts re
lating to the elements of political institutions, the number of
electors, jurors, &c. ; 2ndly, legal statistics ; 3rdly, the statis
                               STATISTICAL SOCIETY.                                 493

tics of finance and of national expenditure, and of civil and

military establishments.
Medical Statistics, strictly so called, will require at least two
subdivisions ; and the great subject of population, although
it might be classed elsewhere, yet touches medical statistics
on so many points, that it would be placed most conveniently,
perhaps, in this division, and would constitute a third sub
division.
Moral and Intellectual Statistics comprehend, 1st, the statistics
   of literature ; 2ndly, of education ; 3rdly, of religious instruc
tion and ecclesiastical institutions; 4thly, of crime. Although
fourteen subdivisions have now been enumerated, it is pro
bable that more will be required.
It will not of course be necessary to have a distinct Sub-com
mittee of the Council for each of these subdivisions ; but a
convenient division of the Council, and an arrangement of the
individuals composingis a      so as best to deal with all the different
                               a it,

                                    it

                                  is A
                                                                           a
                                                                 it
portions of the common subject, will be necessary preliminary
to any systematic course of inquiry.

   When these subdivisions are established, will be for them,
subject to the approbation of the Council, to sketch the outline
of their own operations.
                               few observations on the more
general efforts and objects of the Society are all that need be
                  here.
preIstenwtielld  be desirable  that the Society should, as soon as possi

ble, endeavour to open communication with the statistical de
partment established by Government at the Board of Trade.
Without such communication, constantly kept up, the Society
can never be assured that      not doing unnecessarily what the
Government doing at the same time and better. The result
of such a communication would probably be that the Society
would abandon to the care of the Government some part of this
very extensive field of inquiry altogether, and more of par
                                                                              a it
tially, which would still leave a very sufficient, though less
overwhelming task to the Society.
The Society, having its own work thus somewhat limited and
defined, may next proceed to consider the best means, 1st, of
collecting fresh statistical information and, 2ndly, of arranging,
                                   ;

condensing, and publishing much that already exists. Towards
collecting fresh statistical information, the first step in order,
both of time and importance, would be the arrangement of a
good set of interrogatories, to be drawn up under the superin
tendence of the Sub-committees, and afterwards examined,
sanctioned, and circulated by the Council. The careful execu
tion of this task essential both to afford guidance and aid to
                 is
494 THIRD REPORT -- 1833.

individual inquirers, and to protect the Society against the in

flux of imperfect or irrelevant statements. Willing agents of
inquiry exist in abundance quite ready to aid in collecting ma
terials ; but few of these agents take a very wide view of all the
objects of statistical inquiry, and indeed few have very distinct
notions about the precise information the Society may wish to

collect, even as to any one object. To sketch, therefore, di
stinctly by means of interrogatories, carefully and succinctly
drawn, the whole outline which it is wished to fill up, is the
only way to secure to the Society the full benefits to be expected
from their zeal. It is difficult to overrate the importance of the
step which will be made towards the accumulation of statistical
knowledge from all quarters of the globe, by the publication of
such a set of questions ; but the operation will be as laborious
as it is important. It properly may, and probably will, form the
chief object of the exertions of the Council during the first year
of the Society's existence.
Obvious advantages may be drawn from communication with
intelligent Englishmen about to travel abroad, with residents in
the Colonies, and with colonial gentlemen resident in England.
The Society has already the satisfaction of knowing, that it will
have friends and assistants equally zealous and able in our
western colonial possessions. Various societies, foreign and do
mestic, abound both in our own country and on the Continent,
some of them already devoted to this subject, and others very
willing to take it up. In addition to those already in existence,
the Society may hope to see other local societies springing up
in every part of the British dominions, in direct and constant
connexion with the London Society, circulating its queries in
their immediate neighbourhood, and
                                     collecting and authenti
cating the answers. A body of facts  can be thus most conve

niently collected, which may properly enter into a common pub
lication, and will afford safe grounds for comparing the present
condition and future progress of different parts of the empire.
The London Society, therefore, will carefully cultivate a con
nexion with, and attend to the wishes and suggestions of, such
local societies, and will look forward to their multiplication
and correspondence as among the best supports of its own
continued efficiency.
The collection, by such means and agents, of new statistical
materials will form, it will be remembered, only one part of the
Society's work. To condense, arrange, and publish those al
ready existing, but either unpublished, or published only in an
expensive or diffused form, or in foreign languages, would be a
task of equal usefulness. Authentic statistical accounts, even
                 STATISTICAL SOCIETY.                                                                            495

of an old date, may perhaps advantageously receive some atten
tion. Our Oriental dominions alone present a field of statistical
research as interesting as it is immense. Many materials, col
lected from that field by the meritorious exertions of the East
India Company, are known to be in existence, and it is to be
hoped that, sooner or later, they will be brought through some
channel before the public.

   To point out such existing collections, old and new, their
character, value, and the degree of interest attached to them,
will form an appropriate part of the duties of the Sub-commit
tees of the Council, and will itself be a considerable step in
statistical knowledge. The extent to which the Society shall
deal with the existing materials so pointed out to                                               it
be considered when the means and resources                                                           is      can only

                                                                                                        it,to possess

are better ascertained.
It will of course be one prominent object of the Society to
form complete Statistical Library as rapidly as its funds may
a

admit.
The proposed annual subscription to the Society
                                                                                                             is  two

guineas, which may be compounded for by one payment of

twenty guineas.

                 COUNCIL AND OFFICERS

        Elected at the General Meeting, 3rd May, 1834.

   SPTrerecesraiedstuearnreiter. .s--.----MHWaernoqrruyoisnzHooawfllLaamGn,rsedEigos,wq.nEes.q.  Charles Hope Mac
lean, Esq. E. Carleton Tufnell, Esq.
   Charles Babbage. Esq. William Burge, Esq. Rev. Geo.
D'Oyley, D.D. John Elliot Drinkwater, Esq. Howard El-
phinstone, Esq. Earl Fitzwilliam. Rt. Hon. H. Goulburn, M.P.
Joseph Henry Green, Esq. Edmund Halswell, Esq. Dr.
Bisset Hawkins, M.D. Rt. Hon. Fr. Jeffrey, M.P. Rev.
Richard Jones. John Lefevre, Esq. Sir Charles Lemon,
Bart., M.P. Rt. Rev. Lord Bishop of London. S. Jones
Loyd, Esq. Rev. T. R. Malthus. G. R. Porter, Esq. Vis
count Sandon, M.P. G. Poulett Scrope, Esq., M.P. N. W.
Senior, Esq. Dr. John Sims, M.D. Lieutenant-Colonel
Sykes. Thomas Tooke, Esq. T. Vardon, Esq. Rev. W.
Whewell.
                                          497

         OBJECTS OF THE ASSOCIATION.

The Association     contemplates no            interference                wariteh, --tThoe
                    other Institutions.
ground occupied by                               Its objects
                   --imtopuplsreomaonted
give a   stronger                         a more systematic                direction to sci
entific  inquiry,                         the intercourse of               those who culti

vate Science  iwn itdhifffeorreenigt n paprhtislosoofpthheers,Br--ititsoh   Empire, with one
another, and                                                               obtain a more gene

ral attention to the objects of Science, and a removal of any dis
advantages of a public kind, which impede its progress.

                    RULES.

                                         MEMBERS.

   All Persons who have attended the first Meeting shall be en

titled to become Members of the Association, upon subscribing
an obligation to conform to its Rules.

   The Fellows and Members of Chartered Societies in the Bri
tish Empire shall be entitled, in like manner, to become Mem
bers of the Association.

   The Office -Bearers, and Members of the Councils or Managing
Committees, of Philosophical Institutions shall be entitled, in
like manner, to become Members of the Association.

   All Members of a Philosophical Institution, recommended by

its Council or Managing Committee, shall be entitled, in like
manner, to become Members of the Association.

   Persons not belonging to such institutions, shall be eligible,
upon recommendation of the General Committee, to become
Members of the Association.

                                    SUBSCRIPTIONS.
   The amount of the Annual Subscription shall be One Pound,
to be paid in advance upon Admission ; and the amount of the
composition in lieu thereof, Five Pounds.

                    MEETINGS.

The Association shall meet annually, for one week, or longer.
                                          2k
1833.
498 RULES OF THE ASSOCIATION.

The place of each Meeting shall be appointed by the General
Committee at the previous Meeting ; and the Arrangements for
it shall be entrusted to the Officers of the Association.

                              GENERAL COMMITTEE.
    The General Committee shall sit during the time of the Meet
ing, or longer, to transact the Business of the Association. It
shall consist of all Members present, who have communicated
any scientific Paper to a Philosophical Society, which Paper has
been printed in its Transactions, or with its concurrence.
    Members of Philosophical Institutions, being Members of
this Association, who may be sent as Deputies to any Meeting
of the Association, shall be Members of the General Committee
for that Meeting.

                            COMMITTEES OF SCIENCES.
    The General Committee shall appoint, at each Meeting, Com
 mittees, consisting severally of the Members most conversant
 with the several branches of Science, to advise together for the
 advancement thereof.
    The Committees shall report what subjects of investigation
 they would particularly recommend to be prosecuted during the
 ensuing year, and brought under consideration at the next Meet
 ing. They shall engage their own Members, or others, to un
 dertake such investigations ; and where the object admits of
 being assisted by the exertions of scientific bodies, they shall
 state the particulars in which it might be desirable for the Ge
 neral Committee to solicit the cooperation of such bodies.
    The Committees shall procure Reports on the state and pro
 gress of particular Sciences, to be drawn up from time to time by
 competent persons, for the information of the Annual Meetings.

                                 LOCAL COMMITTEES.
     Local Committees shall be appointed, where necessary, by the
 General Committee, or by the Officers of the Association, to
 assist in promoting its objects.
     Committees shall have the power of adding to their numbers
 those Members of the Association whose assistance they may
 desire.

                                          OFFICERS.

   A President, two Vice-Presidents, two or more Secretaries,

 and a Treasurer, shall be annually appointed by the General
 Committee.
RULES OF THE ASSOCIATION.                      409

                                         COUNCIL.
   In the intervals of the Meetings the affairs of the Association
shall be managed by a Council, appointed by the General Com
mittee.

                      PAPERS AND COMMUNICATIONS.
   The General Committee shall appoint, at each Meeting, a
Sub-Committee, to examine the papers which have been read,
and the register of communications ; to report what ought to be
published, and to recommend the manner of publication. The
Author of any paper or communication shall be at liberty to re
serve his right of property therein.

                                        ACCOUNTS.
   The Accounts of the Association shall be audited, annually,
by Auditors appointed by the Meeting.

                        TREASURER.
John Taylor, Esq., 14, Chatham Place, London.

LOCAL TREASURERS.

Dr. Daubeny, Oxford.           Rev. Thomas Luby, Dublin.
Prof. Forbes, Edinburgh.       Dr. Prichard, Bristol.
Jonathan Gray, Esq., York.     George Parsons, Esq., Birming
Prof. Henslow, Cambridge.
William Hutton, Esq., Newcas-      ham.

    tle-on-Tyne.               Rev. John J. Tayler, Manchester.

                               H. Woolcombe, Esq., Plymouth.

                                                                    '
INDEX.

Objects and Rules of the Associa          Barometer, wheel, on the construc
                                             tion of a new, 414.
     tion, 497.                                       with an enlarged scale, 414.
Officers, Council, Committees, &c.
                                          Beams, on the effect of impact on,
    xxxviii.                                  421.
Proceedings of the General Meeting,
                                          Blackwall (J.) on the structure and
             ix.                             functions of spiders, 444.
             of the Sectional Meetings,
                                          Botany, on the philosophy of, 27.
---- xxxii.                               Brain, on the physiology of the, 63.
            of the Committees, xxxv.      Buckland (Rev. Dr.), address on re
Recommendations of the Commit
                                             signing the President's Chair, ix.
    tees, 469.

Absorption of light by coloured me        Carlile (H.) on the motions and
    dia, on, 373.                            sounds of the heart, 454.

Achromatism of the eye, on the, 374.      Challis (Rev. J.), report on hydro
Actinometer, the principle and con
                                             statics and hydrodynamics, 131.
   struction of the, 379.                 Christie (S. H.), report on the mag
Adam (Dr.) on some symmetrical
                                             netism of the earth, 105.
   relations of the bones of the me       Chronometers, application of a glass
   gatherium, 437.
Agardh (Prof.) on the originary              balance-spring to, 421.
    structure of the flower, 433.         Circulation in plants, on, 32.
Algebra, on the science of, 185 ;         Colours of plants, on the, 55.
   signs of transition, 232 ; signs of    Compressibility of water, on, 131,
   discontinuity, 248 ; convergency
    and divergency of series, 267.            353.
Analysis, on certain branches of, 185.
Antimony, glass of, its power to re       Cumming (Rev. J.) on some electro
    flect light, 377.
Architecture, naval, on, 430.                magnetic instruments, 418; on an
Atomic weights, experiments on, 399.         instrument for measuring the heat
Attraction, electrical, some new phae-        ing effect of the sun's rays, 418.
    nomena of, 386.
Aurora borealis, on an arch of the,       Decomposition, on electro-chemical,
    401 ; directions for observations         393.
   of the, 486.
                                          Dent (E. J.) on the application of a
Baily (F.), account of some MS.
    Letters relative to Flamsteed's           glass balance-spring to chronome
    Historia Ceslestis, 462.                  ters, 421.
                                          Daubeny (Dr.) on the action of
Barlow (P.), report on the strength           light upon plants, 436.
    of materials, 93.
                                          Earth, on the magnetism of the,
 Barometer, new, on the construction           105.

    of, 414.                              Eddies in rivers, on the causes of,
           , portable, new method of con       109.

    structing, 417.                       Eel, on the reproduction of the, 446.
                                          Electrical attraction, some new phe

                                              nomena of, 386.
                                          Electricity, on, 390.
                                          Electro-chemical decomposition, on,

                                              393.
502 INDEX.

Electro-magnetic instruments,      on,        construction of the actinometer,
    418.
                                               379.
Endosmose and Exosmose, on the
                                           Hodgkinson (E.) on the effect of im
cause of, 391.
                                               pact on beams, 421 ; on the strength
Equations, on the theory of, 296;             of cast iron, 423.
                                           Hydraulics as a branch of engineer
    composition of, 296 ; general so           ing, on, 153.
   lution of, 305.                         Hydrostatics and Hydrodynamics,
Eye, on the achromatism of the, 374.          report on, 131.

Faraday (M.) on electro-chemical           Influenza of 1833, peculiar atmo
                                              spherical phenomena during the
    decomposition, 393.                       prevalence of, 461.

Fielding (G. H.) on the peculiar at        Iron, mean strength and elasticity
   mospherical phaenomena during               of, 103.
   theprevalence of influenza in 1833,
                                                  , carbonaceous, method of ana
    461.
Flamsteed's Historia Ctrleslis, ac            lysing, 400.

   count of some MS. Letters rela                  , cast, on the strength of, 423.

    tive to, 462.                          Jenyns (Rev. L.) on genera and sub-

Flowers, on the structure of, 433.                           440.
Fluid motion, review of the theory of,        fennsetorna, (Prof.) on a method of ana
                                              lysing carbonaceous iron, 400.
    131.
Fluids, on the motion of in pipes and      Leaves, on the theory of wood being
                                               generated by the action of, 36 ; on
    vessels, 135, 153 ; on the resistance      the arrangement of, 40; on the
   of, 149, 153; on the velocity of
   propagation in, 136, 153.                   structure of, 41.
                                           Life, on the term, 59.
Genera and subgenera, on, 440.
Glass, its colouring matter dimi           Light, on its absorption by coloured
                                               media, 373 ; on the power of glass
   nishes its power of transmitting            of antimony to reflect, 377 ; on a
    heat, 382.
                                               phaenomenon in the interference
          . of antimony, on its power to
   reflect light, 377.                         of, 378.
Gray (W.) experiments on the quan
   tities of rain falling at different     Lindley (Prof.), report on the philo
                                              sophy of botany, 27.
    elevations, 401.
                                           Lloyd (Rev. H.) on conical refrac
Hamilton (W. R.) on the character
   istic function in optics, 360.              tion. 370.

Harlan (Dr.) on some new species of        Locomotion, on the function of, 68.
   fossil saurians, 440.                   Locomotive differential pulley, in

Harris (W. S.) on some new pheno              vestigation of the principle of the
   mena of electrical attraction, 386;        424.
   on the construction of a new wheel-

    barometer, 414.                        Macartney (Dr.) on the natural hi
                                              story of the common toad, 44 1 ; on
Hawkins (J. I.) on the locomotive             the structure and functions of the

   differential pulley, 424.               ManceVrvicoaurs(Kseyvs.temJ.,   149.
Heart, on its motions and sounds,                                         G.) on

454.                                                                              electricity,

Heat, radiant, experiments on, 381.        390.

Henry (Dr. W. C), report on the            Magnetism of the earth, on, 105.
                                           Materials, on the strength of, 93,
   physiology of the nervous system,

    59.   (Sir J. F. W.)                   103, 421, 423,
Herschel
                          on  the  ab      Medulla oblongata, on the, 72.

sorption of light by coloured me           Megatherium, on some symmetrical
                                           relations of the bones of, 437.
dia, 373 ; on the principle and
INDEX.                                       503

Mellon i (M.), experiments on radiant           theory of gradual development,
                                                53 ; on their irritability, 54 ; on
    heat, 381.                                  the action of coloured light on, 54 ;
                                                on the various colours of, 55 ; on
Miller (Rev. W. H.) on the con                  excretions, 56 ; on the structure of
   struction of a new barometer,                the flower, 433 ; on the action of
                                                light upon, 436.
    414.                                     Pollen, on the origin of, 44.
Mineral veins, on the state of know          Potter (R. jun.) on the power of glass
                                                of antimony to reflect light, 377 ;
    ledge respecting, 1.                        on a phaenomenon in the interfer
Mines, on the depths of, 427.                   ence of light, 378 ; on an arch of
Morphology, on the theory of, 50.
                                                 the aurora borealis, 401.
Mylilus crenatus, on the naturaliza          Powell (Rev. B.) on the dispersive
    tion in England of, 448.
                                                powers of the media of the eye, in
Naval architecture, on, 430.                     connexion with its achromatism,
Needle, on its variation, 106; on the            374.

    change in its direction, 107; on         Power (Rev. J.), inquiry into the
    the diurnal change in the varia
    tion, 108.                                   cause of endosmose and exosmose,
                                                  391.
            , dipping, on a peculiar source
    of error in experiments with,            Prideaux (J.) on thermo-electricity,
     412.
                                                  384.
            , magnetic, on the dip of,
     109 ; on the variation of the dip,      Rain, experiments on the quantities
     110.                                        of falling at different elevations,
 Nerves, on the, 80.                              401.
 Nervous system, on the physiology
     of the, 59 ; on the structure and       Refraction, conical, on, 370.
     functions of the, 449.                  Rennie (G.), report on hydraulics as

 Newman (J.) on a new method of                  a branch of engineering, 153.
                                             Respiration, action of the medulla
     constructing a portable barometer,
     417.                                        spinalis and oblongata on, 73.

 CErsted (Prof) on the compressibi            Saurians, fossil, new species of, 440.
     lity of water, 353.
                                              Scorcsby (Rev. W.) on a peculiar
 Optics, on the characteristic function          source of error in experiments
     in, 360.                                     with the dipping-needle, 412.

 Owen (J.) on naval architecture,             Sedgwick (Prof.), his addresses, x.
                                                 xxvii.
      430.
                                              Solar rays, on an instrument for
 Peacock (Rev. G.), report on certain             measuring their heating power,
     branches of analysis, 185.                   379 ; on the diminution of their
                                                  intensity in traversing the atmo
 Phillips (J.), experiments on the                sphere, 380 j on an instrument for
                                                  measuring the heating effect of,
     quantities of rain falling at differ         418.
      ent elevations, 401.
  Physiology of the nervous system,           Spiders, on the structure and func
      59 ; of the brain, 63.                       tions of, 444.
  Plants, on the circulation in, 32 ;
      on the structure of the axis, 33 ;      Spinal marrow, on the, 74.
      on the cause of the formation of        Stars, falling, mode of observing, 490.
      wood, 36 ; on the arrangement of        Statistical Society of London, objects
      leaves, 40 j on the structure of
       leaves, 41 r on the anther, &c.,           and plan of, 493.
      43 ; on the origin of the pollen,       Steam-engine for pumping water,
      44 ; on the fertilization, 45 ; on
      the origin of organs, 49 ; on the            421.
      theory of morphology, 50 ; on the        Strength of materials, on, 93, 103,

                                                   421, 423.
.504                           INDEX.

Taylor (J.),   report on the   state of     table fertilization, 45 ; vegetable
                   respecting  mineral      physiology, 49.
    knowledge                            Veins, mineral, on our knowledge
veins, 1 ; on the depths of mines,          respecting, 1.
                                         Vibrations, musical, in tubes, on,
    427.                                     140.
Telescope, reflecting, 420.
Terrestrial magnetic force, on the       Water, on the compressibility of,
                                             131, 353.
   direction of, 106 ; on the intensity              a steam-engine for pumping,
                                             421.
    of, 118.
Thermo-electricity, on, 384.             Waves, on the problem of, 142.
Thermostat, or heat-governor, on the,    Wharton (W. L.) on a barometer

    419.                                     with an enlarged scale, 414.
Tides, directions for observations of               on a steam-engine for pump

    the, 485.                                ing water, 421.
Timber, table of the mean strength       Whewell (Rev. W.), his address, xi.
                                         Willcox (C.) on the naturalization in
    and elasticity of, 103.
Toad, on the natural history of, 441.        England of the MytUus crenatut,
Trigonometry, on the science of, 288.        448.

Turner (Dr.), experiments on atomic      Yarrell (W.) on the reproduction of

weights, 399.                                 the eel, 446.

Ure (Dr.) on the thermostat, orheat-
   govemor, 419.

Vegetable anatomy, on, 27 ; vege

      Printed by Richard Taylor, Red Lion Court, Fleet Street.
                     NEW            Albemarle- Street, August, 1834.

                          WORKS.

                         NOW READY,

                  GUIDE TO THE
HIGHLANDS and ISLANDS of SCOTLAND,

Including ORKNEY and ZETLAND ; descriptive of their Scenery,
Statistics, Antiquities, and Natural History, with numerous His

torical Notices.
   By George Anderson, General Secretary to the Northern Institu

tion for the Promotion of Science and Literature ; and

   Peter Anderson, Secretary to the Inverness Society for the Educa

tion of the Poor in the Highlands.

One Pocket Volume, Post 8vo., accompanied by a most elaborate and complete                     Map,
             engraved by Arrow-smith, and containing the most recent information
                            respecting Roads, &c. for the use of Travellers.

    This work is the result of an extensive and familiar acquaintance with the High
lands and Islands of Scotland, and the various publications relating to them. The
authors are constantly resident in the Highlands, and have enjoyed peculiar opportu
nities of personally visiting and examining, and they have purposely inspected, almost
every scene and object described in their work. In any instances where this is not the
case, they have been at pains to procure authentic information from persons on the
spot. The design of the undertaking is to present a full, but succinct, delineation of
this part of the kingdom, in a style interesting to the general reader, but so arranged
as to form a complete Traveller's Guide. Such a work has been long and much
wanted. The materials of the present volume have been gradually accumulating
in the authors' hands for upwards of ten years ; and thus, not being a hasty pro
duction, it will, it is hoped, prove an acceptable and useful contribution to the history
of the North of Scotland.

   Introduction.                              Braemar and Athole, with Loch-an-
   Section I. --General observations on the
Highlands and Islands of Scotland.            eilan, Cairn-Gorm, &c.
                                              /. Blair Athol to Grantown in
  II. -- Highland roads, coaches, inns,       Strathspey, by Glentilt and Braemar.
                                                       Appendix to Roots' 1.
steam-navigation, outline of the most in      of GSecoolotlgayndo--f tLhoecaHliitgiehslandosf
teresting routes, expense of travelling, &c.                                                    and Islands
                                                                                               the different
  III. --Town of Inverness.
                                              formations and rocks.

IV.-- Route 1. Inverness, by the High         V.-- Route 2. The Great Glen of

land road across the Grampians to Perth.      Scotland, and voyage from Inverness by
        Branch o. Inverness to Fort George,   Fort William to Glasgow.

    Moor of Culloden, Cawdor Castle, &c.      Branch a. Invermoriston to Kyle
                                              Rhea and Kyleakin.
b. Strathnairn and Stratherrick.              A. Corryarock and Loch Laggau
c. Strathdeam and the river Find-             roads with Glenroy.
                                              c. Glengarry road to Loch Hourn-
horn.                    Fochabers, El
    d. Strathspey, with                       head and Cluany.
                                              Loch Arckaig -- passage
gin, and Burg-Bead.                           it.                                              to the
                                                             by

                                                                                 B
e. Routes across the Grampians to             west coast  Glen Dessary.
2 New Highland Guide.

e. Fort William to Arisaig and                 A b. Skye, Strathaird's Cave, Co-

Moil] art.                                   ruisk, and Glen Sligachan.
                                                 B. Broadford to Brochel Castle ia
  /. Oban to Stafla, Iona, &c.
                                             Rasay, &c.
   g. Oban to Dunbarton, by Dalmally,           C. The Outer Hebrides, or Long
Inverary and Loch Lomond.
                                             Island, and St. Kilda.
   h. Islands of Islay, Jura, Colonsay                 Appendix to Route 4.
and Oronsay, and Inch Cormac with
Loch Swin.                                   Round Towers, Duns or Burghs, and

   i. Kintyre, Ailsa, and Arran.          sculptured stones.

Appendix to Route 2.                        VIII.-- Route 5. Inverness to Wick.

Botany of the Highlands and Islands.      John O'Groat's House, and Thurso.
Characters of Alpine Flora.                      Branch a. Inverness to Beauly, Falls
Sketch of the distribution of British,
                                             of Kilmorack, Glenstrathfarar, and
and especially Scottish plants.
                                              Strath Glass.
VI.-- Route 3. Stirling to Fort Wil
liam, by Callendar and Glencoe.                   b. Inverness to Avoch, Fortrose and
       Branch a. Callendar to Loch Ca-
                                              Cromarty.
   trine, Lochs Lomond, Con, Ard, and             c. Dingwall to the western coasts of

Monteith.                                     Ross-shire.
                                                  d. Bonar Bridge to Tongue, Durness
b. Lochernhead to Crief, and thence
                                             and Cape Wrath.
to Straths Tay and Tummell.      by Kil-         e. Bonar Bridge to Loch Inver ; and
   c. Lochernhead to Dunkeld
                                              from Assynt to Durness.
lin and Kenmore.
                                               /. Tongue to Thurso.
Appendix to Route 3.
                                                       Appendix to Routb 5.
   Circles of upright stones and cairns.     Vitrified Forts.

  VII.--Route 4. Skye, the Long              IX.-- Route 6. The Orkney and Zrt-

Island, &c.                               land Islands.
       Division An. Skye, Armadale, Kyle      Table of Distances.
                                              List of Books relating to the Highlands
    Rhea, and Kyleakin, to Dunvegan and
    Duntulm.                              and Islands.

                                              Index.

TRAVELS                                  II.  BOKHARA;

                                 INTO

                                         WHILE ON A MISSION

              TO THE COURT OF LAHORE,

WITH PRESENTS FROM THE KING OF GREAT BRITAIN :

                By Routes never before taken by any European.

                                                                        BEING

                  THE ACCOUNT OF A JOURNEY

From INDIA to CABOOL, TARTARY, and PERSIA.

                                                              ALSO,

   VOYAGENABRRYATIVTE HOFEA INDUS;

Performed under the Orders of the Supreme Government of India, in the

                                           Years 1831-2 and 3.

           By LIEUT. ALEXANDER BURNES, F.R.S.,

           MEMBER OK THE ASIATIC SOCIETIES OF BENGAL, MADKAS, AND BOMBAY.

           Three Vols. 8vo. ; with Illustrative Engravings. £2. 8s.
                    Lieut. Burnes' Travels to Bokhara.                    8

This Work lays open to our view a wide extent of country which has not
been visited by Europeans in modern times, though it is full of interest from

early impressions and classical associations. It is the Journal of an Officer
who has trodden those unfrequented regions, .partly as an accredited agent
of his government, and partly in a love of travel and research.      He first

ascends the Indus from the sea to Lahore, a river of which we have no
account since the days of Alexander the Great. Its importance in a gene
ral and commercial point of view is clearly pointed out, and we have much
matter of an interesting nature regarding the chiefs and people who inhabit

its banks. In particular, the gorgeous splendour of the Court of Runjeet
Sing, the ruler of Lahore and Cashmeer, at which our traveller resided,
brings us back to the age of the Caliphs. He next traverses the countries
at the base of the Hemilaya mountains, and crosses the Indus to the king
dom of Cabool. The mission of the Honourable M. Elphinstone terminated
at the city of Peshawur, close to the Indus ; but Lieut. Burnes carries us
to Cabool, and over the  owrhoHliendeoxotenKtooofsthh--e ktoingthdeompla--intsheoflofTtayrtmaroyu,ntaaimnsonogf
the Indian Caucasus
tribes which have been hitherto undescribed. We are then conducted be
yond the Oxus to the far-famed countries of Samarcand and Bokhara, in
which latter city he resided for two months. The intercourse with the
Uzbek nations will be found both novel and amusing. The route then
leads through the inhospitable deserts of the Toorkmans, eastward of the
Caspian Sea, which Lieut. Bumes reaches in safety, and at length enters the
capital of Persia.
Besides a very full and interesting personal Narrative of the Adventures
and Dangers of the undertaking, this Work contains an Historical and Geo
graphical Account of the Countries which have been visited, as well as much
information regarding their Antiquities, and some remarkable Bactrian

Coins collected by the Author. It is also embellished by a few sketches of
Scenery and Costume, which are being engraved by the first artists.

  The Map, constructed to illustrate these volumes by Mr. J. Arrow-

smith, who has devoted much time in studying the Geography of this por
tion of Asia *, will doubtless be deemed most valuable, since it adds greatly
to our knowledge, as well as rectifies much of the Geography found most
variable and erroneous in all former Maps of Central Asia.

   Price in cover, 7 s. 6d. ; on canvass, and in case, 10*.
   * Mr. Arrowsmith has been engaged for many years in the construction of an
extensive and beautiful General Atlas, which will appear in the course of a few day i.

          LANDSCAPE ILLUSTRATIONS

                         THE BOF IBLE,

MADE FROM ORIGINAL SKETCHES TAKEN ON THE SPOT.

   Engraved in the best style by W. and E. Finden. Accompanied by
Descriptions, drawn up from Original and other Sources.

By  the"  REV. THOMAS         HARTWELL HORNE,B.D.                 Author of
                                                                  &c.
          An Introduction to  th« Study of the Holy Scriptures,"

                    In Monthly Parts, price Is. 6d. each.

                                                           B2
                                                               ALBEMARLE STREET, 1834.

    WORKS ON SCIENCE AND NATURAL HISTORY,

                                                                   AND

                           VOYAGES AND TRAVELS.

    FIRST and SECOND RE                                        A New Edition of the CON
PORT of       the PROCEEDINGS of                            NEXION of the PHYSICAL SCI
BRITISH         ASSOCIATION for                       the   ENCES. By Mrs. Somervii-lb, Fcp.
                                                      the
ADVANCEMENT of SCIENCE. At                                  8vo. 7s. 6d.
YORK in the Year 1831, and at OX
FORD in 1832. In one vol. 8vo.                                  ''The general
                                                            John Herschell's   raider, before he enters upon Sir
            Contents ;--Part I.                                                  Treatise on Astronomy, saonU
1. Rev. William Vbrnon Harcourt.                            prepare his thoughts for the tone of eleiark*
                                                            which it    requires,  boynretahdeing-                                    Mrs. Sonierviifc «
    Exposition of the Object and Plan                       delightful     volume                                                    Connexion of ttr
     of the Association.
2. Detailed Account of the Proceed                          Physical Sciences.' The stylo\,f this astonish
    ings at York in September, 1831.                        ing production is so clear and unaffected, and
                                                            conveys, with so much simplicity, so great a
                                                            Cmleaacsliesadsofimnpartsohtfeeoruehndadntdkhsneoowgf leeendveegrreay,l   that it should be
              Part II.                                      cation."-- Quarterly Review.                                             youth tnp moment
                                                                                                                                     rudiments of edu

    Reports read to the Society at Ox                       MODERN BRITISH VOY
                ford, June, 1832.                           AGES and DISCOVERIES in the
                                                            POLAR SEAS, NORTH AMERICA,
1. Professor Airy, F.R.S., on the State
    and Progress of Physical Astro
    nomy.                                                   and AFRICA. Principally undertaken
                                                            by order       ForfatnhekliBnr<, tisDhenGhoavxe,rnamnedntC. laBfy-
2.  J.  W.   Lubbock, Esq.,   on the Tides.                                  In thirteen small volumes, with
3.  J.       Forbes, Esq.,    F.R.S., on the                Parry,
         D.                                                 perton.
    Present State of Meteorological
                                                            forty-nine Plates, Maps, &c. Price 4i.
    Science.                                                each volume. The Work may be pur
    Sir  oDn athveidPrBogrreewssstoefr,OFp.tRic.Sa.l  L. &
4.  E.,                                                Sci  chased entire or in sets.

     ence.                                                  PRINCIPLES of GEOLOGY;
                                                            with
5. Rev R. Willis, on the Phenomena                          tion   a  Glossary, containing an Explana
                                                                      the Scientific Terms used in the
      of Sound.                                                   of
                                                            Work. By Charles Lyei.l, F.RS^
6. Rev. Professor Powell, on the
    Phenomena of Heat.
7. Rev. Professor CuMMinG,on Ther                           Foreign Secretary of the Geological So
                                                            ciety. Illustrated with Ninety-three
     mo-electricity.                                        Wood-Cuts and Six Copper-Plates. The
                                                            Third and Last Volume. 8vo. 20*.
8. F. W. Johnstone, Esq., on the Recent
     Progress of Chemical Science.
9. Rev. Professor Whewell, M.A.,                               " It   is   very interesting and amusing, and
    MF.Rin.Sb.r,aolongtihcealStSacteienacned. Progress of   should    b«
                                                            est iu         read by every   one who takes an inter
10. Rev. W. Conybeare, M.A., F.R.S.,                                 this   rising branch  of Natural History."_

                                                            Jameson's Phihsoph. Jour.
    F.G.S., on the Recent Progress, Pre                     " It altogether forms the work which we
                                                            should recommend to a mind that is vigorously
    sent State, and Ulterior  Development                   --resBorlivteisdhtoCrciutilct.ivate this branch of philosophy.'-
    of Geology.

   Together with an Account of the Pub                      " Mr. Lyell's ' Principles of Geology' will now
lic Proceedings of the Society, and of the                  take their station as a standard work on all the
Daily Transactions of the Sub-Commit                        great and interesting subjects on which he
tees, during the period of the meeting.
                                                            treats. We had almost said that it ia a work
                                                            that supersedes everv other on geology." -- A«w
         A few copies on/y remain.                          Monthly magazine, March, 183*.
                    Works of Science, Natural History, <$*c.

   THE BOTANICAL MISCEL-                                                          SALMONIA; or DAYS of
LAN V ; containing Figures and De                                              FLY-FISHING. Third Edition, with
scriptions of new, rare, or little known
Plants, from various parts of the World,                                       Plates and Woodcuts. 12».
particularly of such as are useful in Com
merce, in the Arts, in Medicine, or                                              The JOURNAL of a NATU
in Domestic Economy. By Professor
IIookkk. Complete in 3 vols. 8vo.,                                             RALIST. Third Edition, post 8vo..

with 1 12 Engravings, many coloured,                                           with numerous Additions and Improve
                                                                               ments, Plates and Woodcuts, lbs.

41. 14». 6rf.                                                                  Birds,   Plants, trees, and stones, we note.
                                                                                        insects, beasts, and many rural
The Numbers may be had separate,                                                 " It   is a book that ought to find its  things.
                                                                                                                          way into
price 10». <></.                                                               every rural drawing-room in the kingdom, and
  " We draw our readers' attention to this most                                one that may safely be placed in every lady's
valuable work ; and although its merits have
fully established its character amongst the cul                                boudoir, be her rank and station in life what
                                                                               tdhee"liygThhmtifsauyl .i"so--faamQlluosastrtuteddreiellyisg.h" Rt--feuvlAiethbweo,n'oSakoe.ounm?8.t.he most
tivators of Botany, we esteem it a duty to the
cause of this  beloetgaannictasl cipelnacteestoarreeceaxllceitlletontt"he--ir
notice. The

Asiatic Journal.                                                                  The SECOND SERIES of
  The EVENTFUL HISTORY                                                         GLEANINGS in NATURAL HIS

of the MUTINY in the BOUNTY ; its                                              TORY. By Edward Jessee, Esq. Com
CAUSE and CONSEQUENCES. By
John Barrow, Esq., F.R.S. With six                                             prising Extracts from the unpublished

Plates. One vol. 5*.                                                           Journals of White of Selbourne. Post

EXCURSIONS in the NORTH                                                        8vo. with Woodcuts, 10s. 6c..

oFfINELUARNODPE,,  through parts of RUSSIA,                                    " The first volume of Mr. Jesse's work re
                   SWEDEN, DENMARK,                                            ceived a very full approbation from the public ;
                                                                               it was a work of much curious observation, of
and NORWAY, in the Years 1830 and                                              patient attention, and of kind benevolent feel
1833. By John Barrow, Jun. Post                                                ing. The tone of cheerfulness and good-nature
                                                                               that pervaded it, seemed in unison with the
8vo. 12i. With a few characteristic                                            subject. There was the sunshine of nature
                                                                               spread over the volume; the outpourings both
Sketches, and two Maps.                                                        of "anWoebsceornvcalundt emoinudr  and benevolent heart.
                                                                                                                  few hasty remarks on
JOURNAL of an Expedition                                                                                                                 a
                                                                               very ingenious and interesting work, for which
to Explore the Course and Termination                                          nwaetureratulisrnts,ourtothtahneksa, uitnhocro."m--moGnenwtiltehmaanll'soMthaer
                                                                               gazine.
of the Niger. By Richard and John
Lander. vVith Portraits of the Authors,
and other illustrative Engravings, and a                                       *** A new Edition of the First Series
Map of the Route, showing the Course
                                                                                               was lately published.
of the Niger to the Sea. In three vols,
                                                                                  The ZOOLOGY of NORTH
small Svo. 15*.
" These volumes record perhaps the most im                                     AMERICA, Part I., containing the
portant geographical discovery of the present                                  QUADRUPEDS. By John Richard
ago. In consequence of the attraction possessed                                son, M.J)., Surgeon of the late Expe
by them, and the very accessible form under                                    dition under Captain Franklin. Illus
which, in preference to the cosily and ponder
ous quarto, their enterprising pnblisher has                                   trated by Twenty-eight spirited Etchings,
presented them, there will perhaps be very few                                 by Thomas Londseer. 4to. 1/. 1 Is. in!.
of our readers to whom the incidents of this
remarkable voyage will not be familiar. The                                       %* Published under the Authority
narrative never ceases to  be very                                             and Patronage of His Majesty's Govern
-- Edinburgh Review.                interesting."
                                                                               ment.

CONSOLATIONS in TRA                                                               The ZOOLOGY of NORTH
VEL ; or, the LAST DAYS of a PHI                                               AMERICA, Part II., containing tha
LOSOPHER. By Sir Humphry Davy,
late President of the Royal                      In                            BIRDS. By John Richardson, M.D.,
1 vol. Printed uniformly      Swoictihety."                                    With Fifty coloured Engravings, drawn
                                               Sal-                            by W. Swainson, Esq., and numerous

monia." 6*.                                                                    Woodcuts.
  " We
work.'*--  have been greatly  delighted  with  this
           Monthly Review.
" The work is of a very superior character,                                        Printed uniformly with the Narratives
elaborately written, full of most ingenious                                    of Captains Franklin and Parry's Expe
thoughts, with some passages of great beauty."                                 ditions, to which it may be considered to
--Astatic Journal,                                                             be an indispensable Appendix.
                    Works of Science, Natural History, 8cc.

   The NATURAL HISTORY                           LIFE of SIR ISAAC NEW

of INSECTS, embellished with nume              TON. By Sir David Brewster. With
rous Woodcuts. Vol. I. (to be completed        a Portrait and Woodcuts. 1 vol it.

in 2 vols.) Second Edition, small 8vo. 5«.       CHEMICAL MANIPULA

   The PHILOSOPHY of the                       TION; being instructions to Students
MORAL FEELINGS. ByJoHnABXR-                    in Chemistry on the Methods of Per

crombib, M.D., F.R.S.E., First Phy             forming Experiments of Demonstration
sician to His Majesty in Scotland. 8vo.        or of Research, with accuracy and success.
                                               By Michael Faraday, F.R.S., F.G.S.,
(,,. (I,/.                                     M.R.I. 8vo. 18*.

   LETTERS on NATURAL                            A MANUAL of CHEMISTRY,
MAGIC. Addressed to Sir Walter
Scott. By Sir David Brewster,                  Practical and Theoretical ; containing an
                                               Account of all recent Investigations and
K.G.H., One Volume small 8vo., illus           Discoveries. By W. T. Brands, F.R.S.,
trated with eighty Woodcuts. 5».
                                               Professor of Chemistry, at the Royal In
POPULAR ESSAYS on some
oSfinthHe emnosrty  important DISEASES. By     stitution, &c. Compressed into 2 vols.
                    HAi.FORD,Bt.M.D., G.C.H.,  8vo., only 30i. Third Edition, consider
President of the College of Physicians.        ably enlarged and improved, with nume
Post 8vo. 6s. 6d. A Second Edition.            rous Plates, Woodcuts, Diagrams, &c.

                    Contents.                     TABLES      in Illustration of the
                                               THEORY of      DEFINITE PROPOR
                                               TIONALS, showing the Prime Equiva
I. On the Climacteric Disease.                 lent Numbers of the Elementary Sub-
11. On the necessity of Caution in
       estimating the Symptoms of the          stancss, and the Volumes and Weights
                                               in which they combine ; compiled for the
III. last Slaves of some Diseases.             Use of Chemical Students and Manu
                                               facturers. By W. T. Brande, F.R.S.,
       On the Tic Douloureux.
IV. Popular and Classical Illustrations
       of Insanity.                            8vo. 8». 6rf.

V. On the Influence of Disease on                 OUTLINES of GEOLOGY;
       the Mind-- The Death-Bed
       George IV.                   of         being the Substance of a Course of Lec
                                               tures delivered in the Theatre of the
VI. On the Brain Fever.                        Royal Institution, by W. T. Brands,
 VII.      the Treatment of Gout.              F.R.S. 1 vol. post. 8vo. 7*. 6d.
VIII.  On  the White Swelling.
       On                                         The design of this Work is to mike
IX. On the Treatment of Insanity.              the Student acquainted with the objects
X. On the Death of some illustrious            and uses of Geology.
        Persons of Antiquity.
                                                 NAUTICAL ALMANAC for
XI. An Account of the opening of the
       Coffin of King Charles I. in 1813.      1834. A New Edition, royal 8vo. 5i.

                             The First New and Complete Edition of

C R A B B E'S LIFE AND WORKS.

                          NOW COMPLETED IN EIGHT VOLUMES,

                                     Five Shillings each.
       The Drawings from which the Vignettes are taken, are all made on the spot

                           expressly for this Work, by Stanfield.
FAMILY LIBRARY.

                           THIS DAY ARE PUBLISHED,

      Vols. XLI. to XL VI. of thb FAMILY LIBRARY,

UNIVERSALBEINO HISTORY,
                                                       FROM THE
          CREATION OF THE WORLD.
                                                       BY THB l.ATE
           ALEXANDER FRASER TYTLER,
                                       LORD WOODHOUSELBE.

        COMPLETE IN SIX VOLUMES OF THE FAMILY LIBRARY.

                                          PRICE FIVE SHILLINGS EACH.

This Work comprehends the whole Course of Lectures on Uni
versal History, delivered, with so much success, by Lord Wood-
houselee, while Professor of Civil History, and Greek and Ro
mknaonwnAn'tiqEuleitmiees,ntsin   the University of                                                                                              His well-
                                                                                                                                   Edinburgh.   outlines of
                                 of History ' are                                                                                 the heads or

this Course of Lectures ; and these have been so favourably re
ceived as to have gone through Ten Editions in this country,
besides numerous reprints in America ; and to have been adopted
as a text-book, in the English as well as Scotch Universities.
The extended Work itself is now for the first time given to the
Public. The preparation of it for the press was the last of the
literary labours of its distinguished Author.
   As there is no Universal History now in the hands of the
English Reader, except an enormous collection occupying nearly
oetthhlfeeirgatyahmnotoulasErrt--pgeiatbcocumootcmetat--pvholeisnhorveteodslpuurmlemtepsaao,nrfedttho,hefehlapelsirtfotteeidllyrous,nc--gtitoocntahnomuoeghfehatatr,dthclyaeo,nmddpietamecxiatsenrdptaironeondf
sumed, fail to be considered as filling up an important blank in
the popular literature of the day.

hHuasisve"tefouNrly--o,btehteihnncagonmtmphtrhaoeitrhseewnewdaioancrrgekceapwto'anabtrhleeUeno--ifvwcemohrsuooallrdele  ton fabricated by Turselline --rejecting
                                                                                                                        also the common method of arranging
course of Lectures on that subject de-                                                                                  general history according to certain epoch,

                                                                                                                        or eras,   adopted by Bossuet,    Mehegons
                                                                                                                        Millot,   &c -- Professor Tytler  presents us

livered by the author, while Professor                                                                                  at once with a grand connected picture of
of Civil History, and Greek and Ko-
man Antiquities, in the University of                                                                                   the origin, progress, and simultaneous
                                                                                                                        existence of all the chief nations of the

Edinburgh,' and now for the first time                                                                                  earth. Regarding one nation or empire
                     in                                                                                                 as predominant, and to which all the rest
given to the public  the  awrcitoemr --pletthee  state.                                                                 bear, as it were, an under part, he traces
The mere name of                                 fame
at least which he has justly acquired -- is
                                                                                                                        the principal events in other nations to

a sufficient guarantee for its excellence.                                                                              some natural connexion with the superior
Rejecting the dry Lectures of Peter Bur-
                                                                                                                        state. Altogether, we pronounce this to

man and Professor Mackie on the stale-                                                                                  be at once the most simple and the most
8 Universal History.

                                                                                                                                   a
                                                                                                                                                                      :

                                                                                                                                                                          is,
                                                                                                                                                                                             is
lucid, the most comprehensive, and the                                                                                             weariness. The secret                            that this not

most beautiful synopsis of Universal                                                                                               hasty compilation every thing has been
History that hag yet appeared." -- Court                                                                                           well digested in the mind of the author--
Journal,                                                                                                                                             coofntevmiewpla--teadndleisthuerelwy,hoalned   in
   " Mr.   No. 263.   just  commenced                                   a                                                          every fact                                                      ar
          Murray has                                                                                                               all points
                                                                                                                                   ranged on logical principles so that the
most valuable and interesting work, to                                                                                                               is
be completed in six volumes, -- an ' Uni                                                                                                                                                  a;
                                                                                                                                   reader has no difficulty in following

versal Hiilory, from the Creation of the                                                                                           the narrator's drift, but feels constantly
World;' which will commence as the                                                                                                 that he in the hands of guide who
Forty-first volume of his ' Family Li                                                                                              has mastered the ground, and has a clear
                                                                                                                                   notion of                sraeystwinhga-pt lamceischbieefforehahsimo.f
brary,' a work which stands unparalleled                                                                                           We need           every
                                                                                                                                                      not
fcohre"aapmMnure.ssesMm."ue--rnrtaJoyhanndhBausinlls.struupcptliioend,  and for
                                                                        a desi                                                     late been done by the employment even
                                                                                                                                   of high talents in the absurd attempt to
deratum in our literature, and done the                                                                                            write history currente calamo. That
                                                                                                                                   does well enough for some sorts of com
best he could both for family libraries
and ' The Family Library,' by under                                                                                                lpeosssi--tion    but here                 worse than worth
taking a new and very enlarged edition of                                                                                                        it
                                                                                                                                                    is ;

                                                                                                                                                            ;
                                                                                                                                                                       it
                                                                                                                                                                          is
                                                                                                                                                     positively injurious to the cause
the late Mr. Fraser Tytler's Elements of                                                                                           of literature and every intelligent reader
History. The first, and unequal, as it                                                                                             glances over pages so put together, no
is perhaps the completest Universal His
                                                                                                                                   matter in what superficial brilliancy
                                                                                                                                   of effect, with a feeling of sorrow, and
tory, is too voluminous and expensive for
general readers ; it makes too large a                                                                                             alm"oWsthoefnindwiveiducaolnssidhearmet.hat the only
demand upon their purse and their time.

Mavor's is a mere compilation ; and the                                                                                            Universal History hitherto in the hands
best of other publications are, for the                                                                                            of the          oBfrihteisahvyPuanbdliccocsotlnysistotsmeos f--swomriet
                                                                                                                                   dozens
most part, meagre chronologies, or bril
liant disquisitions on the progress of the                                                                                         ten, too, hundred years ago, and there
human race. The work of Lord Wood-                                                                                                                   a                                        views and
                                                                                                                                                                                              impossible
                                                                                                                                                                           it
                                                                                                                                                                                   is
houselee  will  supply an   useful medium                                                                                          dfoisreproavbeodundsitnagteminenetsx--ploded
between   the   one and    the other-- less                                                                                        to doubt that the present work fills up
                                                                                                                                   an important vacuum. It roust be
prosy and diffuse than the old collec
tion, of we forget how many octavo vo                                                                                              found eminently useful to all engaged
lumes -- more specific and more exact                                                                                              in the                        ofItyowuitllh,bewwheetlchoemr edin
....than such eloquent sketches as Bus-                                                                                            schools         instruction
          It is not the mere compilation                                                                                                           or colleges.
                                                                                                                                                      source of
suet's.                                                                                                                            as a delightful   the private              amusement and
                                                                                                                                   knowledge in                               family --indeed
of a writer hired for the job, but the pro
duction of a life of labour devoted to the                                                                                         we know of no book better calculated

subject by a man whose business was to                                                                                             for the use of young ladies, especially as
                                                                                                                                                                                     with a deli
hllueamcv"teueTsrtheheeoofanfiur'hsthtiTsohttrowerohya.bFseafcmoIotrnieltyirsuivsteL.o"dib--fortoarSmrcpyoens;cdit'xeantvsoweore.  the author has composed                    ;
                                                                                                                                   cacy of feeling never thought of by per       it
                                                                                                                                   sons engaged in works of such a class
                                                                                                                                   some generations back and last, not
the universal history of the world, down to                                                                                        least, the general scholar himself will
the establishment of the House of Hano                                                                                             here possess a book of easy reference.

ver, within such limits, that six volumes                                                                                          exact in dates, faithful in citing authori
of the ' Family Library' will place the
                                                                                                                                   ties and embraced, when compared with
                                                                                                                                   ;

whole before the public in a compact, neat                                                                                         any other bearing a similar title, in the

form, and at a moderate cost ; and yet we                                                                                          bulk of a nut-shell. The taking of

can safely say there is no dryness, no                                                                                             Rome by           the Gauls   ; is  the last great event
index-like sterility in the execution. On                                                                                          included                              and no one can
                                                                                                                                                     in Vol. II.
                                                                                                                                   fail to admire the sagacity by which the
the contrary, this is a singularly lively                                                                                          historian had anticipated, in regard to
work, and very agreeable reading. Fami                                                                                             most points of importance, the critical
liar as we may be supposed to be with the                                                                                                                                                     and
                                                                                                                                                                                              G«-
usual authorities for the period to which                                                                                          views         lately developed             --by   Niebuhr
                                                                                                                                   other         German literati."                  Literary
these opening volumes refer, we have gone

through the whole without any sense of                                                                                             zttte.

Every    Work published in  the Family Library complete                                                                                          is              in    itself,       and may be
                               purchased separately.

                JOHN MURRAY, ALBEMARLE-STREET.

