Report of the ... Meeting of the British Association for the Advancement
of Science.

British Association for the Advancement of Science.
London : J. Murray, 1834-1917.
http://hdl.handle.net/2027/njp.32101076796315

                                          Public Domain, Google-digitized
                                              http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google

                                                          We have determined this work to be in the public domain,
                                                          meaning that it is not subject to copyright. Users are
                                                          free to copy, use, and redistribute the work in part or
                                                          in whole. It is possible that current copyright holders,
                                                          heirs or the estate of the authors of individual portions
                                                          of the work, such as illustrations or photographs, assert
                                                          copyrights over these portions. Depending on the nature
                                                          of subsequent use that is made, additional rights may
                                                          need to be obtained independently of anything we can
                                                          address. The digital images and OCR of this work were
                                                          produced by Google, Inc. (indicated by a watermark
                                                          on each page in the PageTurner). Google requests that
                                                          the images and OCR not be re-hosted, redistributed
                                                          or used commercially. The images are provided for
                                                          educational, scholarly, non-commercial purposes.
',211
.2 -

                             jfifrr&tgiif

                     tyxmzetxm Uniimmig..
V
t
/

                REPORT

                    FOURTH MEETING

        BRITISH ASSOCIATION.
/
                 REPORT

                FOURTH MEETING

 BRITISH ASSOCIATION

                                                              FOR THE

     ADVANCEMENT OF SCIENCE;

                                     HELD AT EDINBURGH IN 1834.

1

                         LONDON:

            JOHN MURRAY, ALBEMARLE STREET.

                                                          1835.

i
PRINTED BY RICHARD TAYLOR,

 RED LION cOURT, FLEET STREET.
   CONTENTS.

Proceedings or the Meeting                                                  Page.

                                                                               ix

   REPORTS ON THE STATE OF SCIENCE.

Report on the Geology of North America. Part I. By Henry                    1
   D. Rogers, F.G.S

Report on the State of our Knowledge of the Laws of Contagion.              67
   By William Henry, M.D., F.R.S., &c, late Physician to the
    Manchester Royal Infirmary and Fever-Wards

Report on Animal Physiology ; comprising a Review of the Pro                 95
   gress and Present Slate of Theory, and of our Information re             143
   specting the Blood, and the Powers which circulate it. By
   William Clark, M.D., F.R.C., F.G.S., F.C.P.S., late Fellow
   of Trinity College, and Professor of Anatomy in the University
   of Cambridge

Report on the Recent Progress and Present State of Zoology. By
   the Rev. Leonard Jenyns, M.A., F.L.S., F.Z.S., F.C.P.S. . .

Report on the Theory of Capillary Attraction. By the Rev. James
Challis, late Fellow of Trinity College, Cambridge
                                                                            253

Report on the Progress and Present State of Physical Optics.
   By the Rev. Humphrey Lloyd, A.M., M.R.I. A., Fellow of
Trinity College, and Professor of Natural and Experimental
Philosophy in the University of Dublin
                                                                            295

Report on the Progress and Present State   oPfarotuIrI.KnBoywlGedegoergoef
   Hydraulics as a Branch of Engineering.
Rennie, Esq., F.R.S., Acad. Reg. Sc. Turin. Corresp., &c. &c. 415

   TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.

   I. Mathematics and Physics.

Professor Hamilton on the Application to Dynamics of a General
Mathematical Method previously applied to Optics
                                                                            513

Professor Hamilton on Conjugate Functions, or Algebraic Couples,
as tending to illustrate generally the Doctrine of Imaginary
Quantities, and as confirming the Results of Mr. Graves re
specting the Existence of Two independent Integers in the com
plete expression of an Imaginary Logarithm
                                                                            519

4
Vi CONTENTS.

                                                                                         Page.
John Thomas Graves on the Theory of Exponential Functions. 523
John S. Russell's Notice of the Reduction of an anomalous Fact
in Hydrodynamics, and of a new Law of the Resistance of
Fluids to the Motion of Floating Bodies
                                                                                         531
Eaton Hodgkinson on the Collision of imperfectly Elastic Bodies 534
The Rev. James Challis's Theoretical Explanations of some Facts
relating to the Composition of the Colours of the Spectrum . . 544
The Rev. Professor Powell on the Achromatism of the Eye ; in
Continuation of a Paper in the last Volume of the British Asso

ciation Reports                                                                          548
The Rev. Professor Powell on the Theory of the Dispersion of
Light by the Hypothesis of Undulations
The Rev. Professor Powell on the Repulsion excited between                               549

Surfaces at minute distances by the Action of Heat                                       549
The Rev. William Whewell's Suggestions respecting Sir John
Herschel's Remarks on the Theory of the Absorption of Light
by coloured Media
The Rev. T. R. Robinson on the Visibility of the Moon in Total                           550

Eclipses                                                                                 552
Professor Miller's Account of some Observations made for the
purpose of determining the Positions of the Axes of Optical
Elasticity in oblique prismatical Crystals
R. Addams's Account of a new Phaenomenon of sonorous Inter                               556

ference                                                                                  557
Professor Lloyd's Account of Magnetical Observations in Ireland,
and of a new Method of observing the Dip and the Force with
the same Instrument
Sir Thomas M. Brisbane on an apparent Anomaly in the Measure                             557

   of Rain  Phillips's                             Report of the Result of Twelve        560
Professor
                        Second

Months' Experiments on the Quantities of Rain falling at different
Elevations above the Surface of the Ground at York, under
taken at the request of the Association by William Gray, Jun.,
and Professor Phillips, F.R.S. F.G.S., Secretaries of the York

shire Philosophical Society                                                              560
Luke Howard on the difference of the Quantity of Rain at different
                        Surface of the neighbouring
    Heights above the   Attempt to connect some of   Ground                              563
Professor Stevelly's                                 the best-known
ProPfheasesnoormCenharisotfieMe--teEoxrotrlaocgty
             Sykes's Notes                         with established Physical Principles  564
Lieut.-Col.  Hailstone on                          of a Letter to Professor Forbes . .   566

The Rev. J.                 on mean Temperatures in India                                567
H. H. Watson                a peculiar Oscillation of the Barometer                      569
                        use of Leslie's Hygrometer with a new Scale
Alexander J.  on the     Account of Experiments on the Expansion                         569
              Adie's

of Stone by the Application of Heat                                                      569
                                CONTENTS.                                                           Vli

                II. Chemistry. --Mineralogy.

Adam van der Toorn's Table of the Proportions of anhydrous acid
  in acetic acid of every degree of concentration between pure
water and the hydrated acetic acid, compared with the specific
gravities, water at 59° Fahr. being taken as unity
Robert W. Fox's Account of some Experiments on the Electricity                                      571

of the Copper Vein in Huel Jewel Mine                                                               572
Sir David Brewster's Notice respecting a remarkable Specimen
of Amber
Sir David Brewster's Remarks on the value of Optical Characters                                     574

in the discrimination of Mineral Species                                                            575
The Rev. William Vernon Harcourt's Experiments on the ef
fects of long-continued Heat on Mineral and Organic Substances 576
Dr. Clark's Explanation of the Successful Application of the Hot
Blast to the Production of Cast Iron
                                                                                                    578

Professor Graham on hydrated Salts and metallic Peroxides ;
with Observations on the doctrine of Isomerism
George Lowe on some new Chemical products obtained in the                                           579

Gas-works of the Metropolis                                                                         582
Henry Hough Watson on the quantity of Carbonic Acid in the

J. Atmosphere                                                                                       583

F. W. Johnston on the Chemical Composition of crystallized
                of Antimony
   Oxichloride  Williams on                                                                 of a    587

Charles J.B.                 the  phenomena and                                   products

low form of Combustion                                                                              588
Dr. Wm. Gregory's Abstract of the Discoveries made by Dr.
Reichenbach, in his examination of the products of destructive

Distillation                                                                                        591

III. Mathematical Instruments and Mechanical Arts.

Professor Forbes on a new Sympiesometer                                                             593
David Dick on the construction of Achromatic Object-Glasses. . 593
John Dunn on a new Klinometer and portable Surveying Instru

    ment                                                                                            594
                                                                                                    595
....E. J. Dent on a Chronometer with a Glass Balance-spring
Mr. Gordon on the Polyzonal Lens
                                                                                                    595

PMrro.feRsesonrniSeteonvealnlyInosntrutmheeanpt pfloicrattaiokningofuap  Water    at great depths   595
                                                                         Vernier   to a Scale, not

of equal but of variable parts, and particularly to Wollaston's
Scale of Chemical Equivalents
                                                                                                    596

IV. Natural History, Anatomy, and Physiology.

                                Botany.

...Robert Brown on the plurality and development                         of Embryos         in
the Seeds of Coniferce                                                                           596
                             ,
Vlll CONTENTS.

Dr. Arnott on the Cocculus Indicus of Commerce                                                    Page.
Dr.  CD. aTurbeevneylyoannEoxncrtehteioDnsistfrriobmutiothne          of Vegetables               597
W.                                                            Roots
                                                              of the  Phaenogamous                S98
    of the Faroe Islands                                                             Plants

                                                                                                  598

                          Zoology.

John Graham Dalyell on the Propagation of certain Scottish

J.  Zoophytes     on the Transformations                      of the Crustacea                  598
    O. Westwood                                                                                 608
P. J. Selby's Observations on the Orbital Glands in certain tribes
   of Birds
                  Notice of Birds observed                                                                 609
P. J. Selby's                                                 in Sutherlandshire, June,

    1834                                                                                        610

Sir W. Jardine's Observations on the Salmonidce which were met
    with during an Excursion to the North-west of Sutherlandshire
    in June 1834
                                                                                                613
James Wilson's Notice regarding the Coleopterous Insects col
    lected during a Tour in Sutherland
M. Agassiz on the different Species of the Genus Salmo which                                    615

    frequent the various Rivers and Lakes of Europe                                             617
Dr.  Allen                                                                     of Reptiles.
Dr.               Thomson's remarks on some                   specimens                      .  623
     Traill       on the Laryngeal Sac of the                 Reindeer.                         623
J. B. Pentland on the Ancient Inhabitants of the Andes
                                                                                                623

                          Geology.

David Milne on the Geology of Berwickshire                                                      624
Major-General Lord Greenock on the Coal-fields of Scotland . . 639
Dr. Hibbert on the Ossiferous Beds contained in the Basins of

   the Forth,      the Clyde, and the Tay                     of the  Orkney    Islands. .      642
                  on the Geological Structure                                                   644
Dr. Traill

Professor Jameson's remarks on the Fossil Fish CepAalaspis. . . . 646
M. Agassiz on the Fossil Fishes of Scotland
Mr. Maclaren on the Pentland Hills                                                              646
W. Macoillivray's account of the central
                                                                               of the great     649

                                                                      Portion
    Mountain Range of the South of Scotland, in which arise the
   Sources of the Tweed
C.G. S. Menteath's notice of the Limestone of Closeburn, in re                                  650

   ply to a Query of the Geological Committee                                                   65 1
Dr. Knight's notice of the Flints of Aberdeenshire                                              651
R. I. Murchison on the Old Red Sandstone and other Forma

    tLioynseloln   the Welsh Border       of the                                                652
                  on the Change of Level
C.                                                            Land    and  Sea  in   Scandi

    navia                                                                                       652

W. Gilbertson on Marine Shells of recent Species found at consi

    derable elevations, near Preston                                                            654
Professor Phillips's Notices in reply to a Question proposed by
                                   CONTENTS.                                             IX

....the Geological Committee at Cambridge, as to the Relations of                        Page.

Mineral Veins and the Non-metalliferous Joints in Rocks                                  654
James Bryce on some Caverns containing bones, near the Giant's

Causeway                                                                                 658
Thomas Andrews on some Caves in the Island of Rathlin and the
adjoining Coast of the County of Antrim
                                                                                         660
W. Nicol on the Anatomical Structure of recent and fossil Woods 660

                 V. Anatomy and Physiology.

Sir C. Bell's Observations on the proper method of studying the
Nervous System
Dr. Abercrombie on the importance to the Medical Profession                              667

of the study of Mental Philosophy                                                        670
Dr. J. Reid's notice of some Experiments on the connexion between
the Nervous System and the Irritability of Muscles in Living
Animals. With Observations by Dr. Alison
Dr. Alison's Notice of some Observations on the vital properties                         671

Dr.ofMAartresrhieas llleaHdiangll  to inflamed parts                        of Progress  674
                                   and Mr. Broughton's
                                                                    Report
made in an Experimental Inquiry regarding the Sensibilities of
the Cerebral Nerves, recommended at the last Meeting of the
Association
Dr. Hodgkin and Dr. Ruppell                                                              676
                                         on the Effec' ts           of Poisons on  the   681
   Animal  QSconomy                       the Varieties             of Mechanism    by
                                   into
Dr. T. J.  Aitkin's Inquiries
which the Blood may be accelerated or retarded in the Arterial
and Venous Systems of Mammalia
Dr. Sharpey's Observations on the Anatomy of the Blood-vessels                           681

   of the Porpoise                                                                       682
Mr. Dick on the Use of the Omentum                                                       683
Dr. W.Thomson on the Infiltration of the Lungs with black Matter,

and on black Expectoration                                                               683

Professor Syme on Excision of diseased Joints                                            684
Dr. Joseph Clarke's account of a Registry kept in the Lying-in
Hospital of Great Britain-street, Dublin, from the year 1758 to
the end of 1833
                                                                                         685

                                   VI. Statistics.

Dr.  CIIlekylawnodo'ds--StSattaistitsictiscsofoGf Mlaasgnochwester                       685
Mr.                                                                                      690
Mr. Gordon's notice of the new Statistical Account of Scotland. . 692
Earl Fitzwilliam's remarks on the Statistical Reports regarding

Agriculture                                                                              693
OBJECTS AND RULES OF THE ASSOCIATION.

                             OBJECTS.

The Association contemplates no interference with the ground occu
pied by other Institutions.   Its objects  are, -- To give a
pulse and a more systematic  direction to  scientific inquiry,  --strtoonpgroemr oimte

the intercourse of those who cultivate Science in different parts of the
British Empire, with one another, and with foreign philosophers, -- to
obtain a more general attention to the objects of Science, and a removal
of any disadvantages of a public kind, which impede its progress.

                           RULES.

                                               MEMBERS.

   All Persons who have attended the first Meeting shall be entitled to
become Members of the Association, upon subscribing an obligation to

conform to its Rules.
   The Fellows and Members of Chartered Literary and Philosophical

Societies publishing Transactions, in the British Empire, shall be en
titled, in like manner, to become Members of the Association.

    The Office- Bearers and Members of the Councils, or managing Com
mittees, of Philosophical Institutions shall be entitled, in like manner,
to become Members of the Association.

   All Members of a Philosophical Institution recommended by its

Council or Managing Committee, shall be entitled, in like manner, to
become Members of the Association.

    Persons not belonging to such Institutions shall be elected by the
General Committee or Council, to become Members of the Association,
subject to the approval of a General Meeting.

                                          SUBSCRIPTIONS.

    The amount of the Annual Subscription shall be One Pound, to be
paid in advance upon admission ; and the amount of the composition
in lieu thereof, Five Pounds.

   IfSubscriptions shall be received by the Treasurer or Secretaries.

        the annual subscription of any member shall have been in arrear
 for two years, and shall not be paid on proper notice, he shall cease
 to be a member ; but it shall be in the power of the Committee or
 Council to reinstate him, on payment of arrears, within one year.
                            RULES OF THE ASSOCIATION'.

                                           MEETINGS.
     The Association shall meet annually, for one week, or longer. The
 place of each Meeting shall be appointed by the General Committee at
 the previous Meeting; and the Arrangements for it shall be entrusted
 to the Officers of the Association.

                                 GENERAL COMMITTEE.
    The General Committee shall sit during the time of the Meeting, or
longer, to transact the Business of the Association. It shall consist of
 all Members present, who have communicated any scientific Paper to a
 Philosophical Society, which Paper has been printed in its Transactions,
 or with its concurrence.
    Members of Philosophical Institutions, being Members of this Asso
ciation, who may be sent as Deputies to any Meeting of the Association,
 shall be Members of the Committee for that Meeting, the number
 being limited to two from each Institution.

                              COMMITTEES OF SCIENCE.
    The General Committee shall appoint, at each Meeting, Committees,
consisting severally of the Members most conversant with the several
branches of Science, to advise together for the advancement thereof.
    The Committees shall report what subjects of investigation they
would particularly recommend to be prosecuted during the ensuing
year, and brought under consideration at the next Meeting. They
shall engage their own Members, or others, to undertake such inves
tigations ; and where the object admits of being assisted by the exer
tions of scientific bodies, they shall state the particulars in which it
might be desirable for the General Committee to solicit the co-opera
tion of such bodies.
   The Committees shall procure Reports on the state and progress of
particular Sciences, to be drawn up from time to time by competent
persons, for the information of the Annual Meetings.

                                  LOCAL COMMITTEES.
    Local Committees shall be appointed, where necessary, by the General
Committee, or by the Officers of the Association, to assist in promoting
its objects.
   Committees shall have the power of adding to their numbers those
Members of the Association whose assistance they may desire.

                                         OFFICERS.
   A President, two Vice-Presidents, two or more Secretaries, and a
Treasurer, shall be annually appointed by the General Committee.
RULES OF THE ASSOCIATION.

                                               COUNCIL.

   In the intervals of the Meetings the affairs of the Association shall

be managed by a Council, appointed by the General Committee.

                        PAPERS AND COMMUNICATIONS.
    The General Committee shall appoint at each Meeting a Sub-Com
mittee, to examine the papers which have been read, and the register of
communications ; to report what ought to be published, and to recom
mend the manner of publication. The Author of any paper or commu
nication shall be at liberty to reserve his right of property therein.

                                             ACCOUNTS.
   The Accounts of the Association shall be audited annually, by Audi
tors appointed by the Meeting.

                          TREASURER.
John Taylor, Esq., 14, Chatham Place, London.

LOCAL TREASURERS.

Dr. Daubeny, Oxford.            Dr. Prichard, Bristol.
Charles FosBES,£sq. Edinburgh.  George Parsons, Esq., Birming
Jonathan Gray, Esq., York.      ham.
Prof. Henslow, Cambridge.       Re v. John J. Tayler, Manchester.
William Hutton, Esq., Newcas-   SHa,mWuoeol lTcoumrnbee,r,EEssqq.,.,
                                                                      Liverpool.
    tle-on-Tyne.                                                      Plymouth.
Dr. Orpen, Dublin.
THE               BRITISH          ASSOCIATION               FOR   THE     ADVANCEMENT                          OF SCIENCE.

                           TREASURER'S              ACCOUNT        from 18th June 1833 to 31st July 1834.

                  RECEIPTS.                                                                          PAYMENTS.

Balance of Account audited at Cambridge                   £.               Expenses at the Cambridge Meeting                                          ·> 0£.d.
Compositions from 140 Members                             408              Disbursements by Local Treasurers                                     0266
                                                          679              Purchase of £700 in the per cent Consols                                       II
Annual Subscriptions 1833, from 716 Members...            716              Paid John Murray for Printing, &c, the 1st vo-       1J           38
                                                                                                  3                                       622
                                                            10                      lume of Reports                                       321
Ditto                      1834,        10 do               11             Paid Richard Taylor for printing the 2nd volume
                                                          3,,U, .                                                                         250
Arrears of ditto           1832,      lido                150                       of Reports, on Account,                                 10

Received on Account of the Sale of 1st volume               66                                                                            414
                                          /1 0 °                       40
of Reports                                    0°                   74                                                                     120
                                      1}                                                                                                    20
Received for Lithographic          Signatures sold                         Sundry Printing
Dividend on 1000J., per cent. Consols.                                     Expenses on Printing, and Lithographic
                  3                                                                                                     Signa- IJ J1 6 4 6
                                                                                   tures.with Report of Proceedings  at Cam-   70 8
six months, to July 1833                £15                                                                                                      7 00  8 00

Ditto on 1700/., ditto 12 months, to        5r.1    .  .                   bridge
     July 1834
                                                                           Salaries to Assistant  Secretary and Accountant...
                                                                       0   Paid the " Committee    for the Discussion of Tide"!
                                                                   0

                                                                                    Observations"               1....
                                                                           Balance in the Banker's handB            £2\S

                                                                           Ditto   Treasurer's                            7

                                                                           Ditto Local Treasurers'        ...,       66

                                                                                                                                 -        291 16          4

                                                                7£2154 15
                                   1
                                                                                                                                    £2354 15              7

       G. B. GREENOUGH,                      . ..,                                 JOHN           TAYLOR,       Treasurer.
                                        }*«*'·"·
       FRANCIS             BAILY,
       FOURTH REPORT.

       PROCEEDINGS OF THE MEETING.

                                                   1834.

THE British Association resumed its sittings on Monday the

8th of September, 1834, in the city of Edinburgh. The Meet
ing was attended by a greater number of members than had as
sembled on any former occasion* ; but by means of the arrange
ments adopted by the Secretaries and local Committee, its pro

ceedings were conducted with order and facility. All the

public accommodations which this magnificent capital possesses
were opened to the Association : the members received their
tickets in the gallery of the Royal Institution ; the general Com
mittee sat in the meeting-room of the Royal Society ; the Sec
tions were distributed through the class-rooms of the Univer
sity ; the meetings of the entire body were held in the public
Assembly Rooms and in the hall of the College Library.

       GENERAL MEETINGS.

   On Monday evening, at eight o'clock, the first General
Meeting was held in the great Assembly Room. The President
of the preceding year (the Rev. Professor Sedgwick) addressed
some remarks to the meeting on the progress of the Associa
tion ; he congratulated them on the increased strength in which
they had assembled, in a place endeared to the feelings of every
lover of science, by so many delightful and elevating recollec
tions, especially by the recollection of the great men whom it
had fostered or to whom it had given birth. Among the per
sons congregating together from different countries to this great
philosophical union it had been his good fortune to encounter
on his road thither M. Arago the Perpetual Secretary of the

1834.  · The number of tickets issued was 1298.
                                    b
X FOURTH REPORT -- 1834.

French Institute, a name which the meeting well knew was not
inferior in scientific reputation to any in Europe. To meet with
such men, to breathe the same atmosphere with them, to partake
the same sentiments, to enjoy their conversation, and to gain,
he hoped, their friendship, these were among the highest privi
Ifleges which such unions bestowed.
                                                               is which this Associa
       he were to be asked what the power
tainosnwepre, c--ultiahrelypoawppelriesof                       of science, he would
                                           to the advancement  feeble is man for any
                                           combination : how

purpose when he stands alone, how strong when united with his

fellow-men ! It might be true, perhaps, that the greatest philo
sophical works have been achieved in privacy ; but it is no less
true that those works would never have been accomplished if
their authors had not mingled with men of similar pursuits, and
availed themselves of their assistance. To such a commerce of

ideas they have often been indebted for the germs of their ap
parently insulated discoveries, and without such mutual aid they
would seldom have been able to carry their investigations to any
valuable conclusion. Even in the highest departments of philo
sophical reasoning, when a question of fact arises, when a point
of experiment is reached, the greatest masters of analysis are
obliged to call in the cooperation of other labourers, and to wait
for the observations of experimental men.
The manner in which the power of combination is brought
into action by these meetings might, in some measure, be col
lected from the results which had sprung out of the proceedings

of the last meeting. A discussion, for instance, had then taken
place on the subject of the aurora borealis, and measures were
adopted for promoting the investigation of the circumstances
connected with that remarkable phenomenon. Soon afterwards
a beautiful arch appeared across the heavens ; it was simulta
neously observed by different members of the Association at
distant points ; and thus elements were furnished for a compu
tation of its height. Again, observations of great value had
long since been made at the Royal Observatory of Greenwich
by Bradley and Maskelyne : these had lain till now unreduced,
like un wrought ore, or raw materials for a valuable manufacture

not worked up ; and they might still have continued useless and
lost to science but for the application to Government resolved
upon at the last meeting of the Association, the success of which
had been announced in the volume of Reports which had since
been printed. The Professor next referred to the progress which
by the same agency is making in the observing of the tides and
the discussion of tide observations, and to the experiments on
the effects of long-continued heat, which are going on in the
PROCEEDINGS OF THE MEETING.  XI

iron-furnaces of Yorkshire. He concluded by recommending to
the meeting a strict adherence to the principle of excluding
from their discussions every subject of a nature not strictly
scientific, and expressed the satisfaction with which he resigned
his office into the hands of one who had already been placed at
the head of science in Scotland, and who had added to laurels
gained in fighting the battles of his country the glory of having
kindled up the light of philosophy even at the antipodes.

   The President (Sir Thomas Brisbane) assured the meeting of
the strong desire which animated individuals of every rank in
the city of Edinburgh and its neighbourhood to give the warm
est welcome to the Association, and to uphold, by its reception,
the national character for hospitality. He announced that the
Principal and Professors of the University had given the
free use of their class-rooms and of other apartments in the
College, which would be found admirably adapted for the Sec
tional meetings of the Association ; and he added that other
public bodies had not been backward in making similar offers,
and in contributing whatever lay in their power towards its ac

commodation.

   The senior Secretary (Mr. Robison) stated the course of pro
ceeding which it was intended to adopt in conducting the busi
ness of the present meeting. The principal variation to be
made from the course pursued in former years consisted in de
voting the entire morning to the meetings of the Sections and
their Committees; and transacting the detail of scientific business
solely at the morning meetings. In the evening the Chair would
be taken at eight o'clock ; the officers of each Committee would
give a short summary of the proceedings which had taken place
in their respective Sections, and these statements would be fol
lowed by any communications of a more popular character that
might be selected for the evening meetings. In addition to
what had been already said of the liberal conduct of public
bodies in Edinburgh, he was bound to mention the peculiar ob
ligation under which the Association lay to the proprietors of
the building in which they were then assembled, who had not
only granted the gratuitous use of their apartments, but had ex
pended a large sum of money in preparing and decorating them
for the meeting.

   The junior Secretary (Professor Forbes) then delivered the

foll"owItinhgavaidndgrebsesen: suggested that the general view of the pro

gress of the affairs of the Association, so ably executed last year
by Mr. Whewell, should annually be continued by the Secretary

for the time being, I have undertaken this portion of the duties
                                      b2
Xli FOURTH REPORT 1834.

which devolve upon the Secretaries for Edinburgh, at the desire

of my learned colleague Mr. Robison, who, on the other hand,
has engaged briefly to state the nature and motives of the prac
tical arrangements for the present meeting, of which he has had
                               by far the most laborious part.
Ithe kindness to superintend                                                                ,
                               a periodical report as I have men
       felt anxious that such
tioned should be continued, because of the necessarily fluctua
ting state of our Body, and the small number of persons who,
by circumstances, have been enabled to attend all the meetings,
and to become acquainted with the actual operation of a some

Iwhat complicated machine ; and was ready to undertake that
I Iduty, because hoped that might be able, by an appeal to
facts, in the first place, to put in a clear point of view, what
has   nvoetrypegrehnaeprsallybemenisuenndoeurgshtoodin, si--stethde  on, and has therefore
been                                                                  perfectly unique cha

racter of this Association, and the high aims to which its efforts
are directed ; and, in the second place, to demonstrate that these
aims and objects are in the due course of attainment ; that the

members, and especially the projectors of this institution, are
fulfilling the pledges, of no common character, which they gave
to the public, and this more especially in relation to the pro
              of the past year.
cee"diTnghse  character of the Association,  I have said,            may  be con
sidered as unique. It is not to be confounded with those nu
merous and flourishing institutions which have sprung up, es
pecially of late years, for the simple diffusion of scientific truths.
Such diffusion does   not even, properly speaking, include any
attempt at extension
                      or accumulation : if in many cases it does
promote such extension, it is indirectly, and beyond a doubt
has sometimes had the opposite tendency. The intellectual
wealth of mankind is no more increased by this operation, than
is the weight of the precious metals under the hand of the gold

beater. A greater display may indeed be attained, and a more

commodious application to the useful and the elegant purposes
of life ; but for actual increase of the stock which may hereafter
be fashioned with ease and expedition by the hands of a thou
sand artificers, we must recur to the miner toiling in his solitary

nook,   and to the labourer    wtohrorepnat.infuItllyis              extracts some precious
grains  from the bed of the                                          the furtherance of this

species of productive energy that the British Association claims
for its capital object. The diffusion of a taste for science amongst
its numerous members is no doubt also one of the most neces

sary and most desirable consequences of the principles upon
which it is founded; but it is not the basis of these principles.
To teach those who have never pursued natural knowledge but
       PROCEEDINGS OF THE MEETING.                                                                XIII

as an   occasional amusement, --  to feel that for them       a field lies
open   which tomorrow they may                                lend them
                                  call their own,-- to

such aid as may promote the success of their exertions, by re
imngovbinoguntdhearyprebleimtwinixatrythedifkfnicouwltniesa, nadndthepouinnktinnogwno,u--t tthoe   exist
                                                                                                  stimu

late these exertions and those of others who have already be
come, to a certain degree, familiarized with the labours and with
the results of intellectual toil, by enabling them to mix with the
veterans in each department who have gained, and who still con
ttuinreuecotonfgearsin, --, thwehohigwhiellstproeiwnatrdosut  which the investigation of na
                                                               the methods which they pur
sued, the disappointments which they met, and the difficulties
which they surmounted, thus affording at once the gratification
which every generous mind feels in personal communication
with those who have signalized themselves by intellectual achieve
ment, and the instruction and encouragement for the pursuit of
a similar course which words, and words alone, can impart, --
these we hold out as amongst the first and the most valuable

objects proposed to be attained by the institution of this Asso
"ciation.

      No doubt societies for the promotion of natural knowledge
have been in existence for near two centuries, and these have

done much to the due advancement of science itself, as well as

the promotion of a more general taste for its cultivation. They
were admirably adapted to the period of their institution, when
the difficulties of ordinary communication, and the want of sci
dwaceecinesancrtdteiufreisecmstehijdeoeos,frue--rponhffaaiirlnElssodu,tsrowormpephhapeediecn--eaatleifttrdhsa,ienu--TfgoRrhwraotmnhyewsaanaltiticohtSnniooe,tnhcw--esie,twtlhyitheaeeoonrnrfdaierLsytnhoeonwtwsrdeeeoraeensouxftrphettehhesreeriemwoghetrfhieinrcaesthtstr
Hooke and Wren, and Boyle and Leibnitz,                       and the Bernouillis,
loved to display, and which Newton alone                      loved to conceal --

were the couriers which published to Europe the intelligence of
the successive intellectual victories of that mighty age. Rarely
even then, however, and latterly still less, did these societies at
tempt to guide in any specific direction the investigations of their
members, or to form any school of science for the initiation of
fresh inquirers. The formation of such schools of disciples who
voluntarily combined under some philosopher of eminence, partly
did away with the necessity of this on the Continent ; whilst the
total want of anything similar in our own country, and the less
specific objects of those honorary rewards which from time to
time have been given by learned societies in all countries, and
which have occasionally drawn forth all the powers of some mas
XIV FOURTH REPORT 1834.

ter mind to the solution of a specific difficulty proposed as a
prize question, necessarily produced a greater want of systema
tic cooperation amongst scientific men in Britain than is to be
fou"ndThine  several countries not her political superiors.
zerland --   migratory scientific associations of Germany                  and  Swit
one owes                                                                    that our British
             to which    --weemgbrraatceefulolynlyackonnoewlceldasgse      of the objects to
              its rise,
which we have above alluded as characterizing this Body. Their
aim was simply to promote the intercourse of scientific men,
                  a taste for                                       of science. Their ex
and to   diffuse  permanent,           t--hethperyoseexceuctiuotne  no functions but for the
istence   is not

--motmheeyntsregdaurrdingnowt htihceh  their  members   are         once   af-oyreatrheasfsuetmurbele, --d,
                                       past,  and have  no          cares

they merely receive and consider the communications which the
zeal of individual members places in their way. Such was at
first proposed to be the character of the Body this day assem
bled, in imitation of the foreign meetings ; but a more extensive
design was subsequently adopted, and it was determined to
establish a permanent society, of which these annual reunions
should simply be the meetings, but which, by methods and by
influence peculiarly its own, should continue to operate during
the intervals of these public assemblies, and should aspire to
give an impulse to every part of the scientific system, to mature

scientific enterprise, and to direct the labours requisite for dis

Ifcov"ery*.we now turn from the aims to the acts of the Associa
tion, we shall find gratifying proof that these designs were not
chimerical, and that the primary machinery devised for effecting
them was wanting neither in efficiency nor in permanence. The
first and most signal proof which we can cite, is the produc
tion of those Reports on the Progress of Science, which ap
peared to be one of the most important objects of such an in
stitution, and one which, beyond all dispute, no existing society
could have attempted. To call upon persons whose time was
in all cases more or less valuable, for such a devotion of it

as was required for a systematic and precise detail of the re
cent progress of the sciences which they respectively culti
vated, was to make a demand, the boldness of which cannot

perhaps well be appreciated but by those who have had expe
rience in the labour of bringing together the substance of de
tached, though often profound, papers in the extensive range of
scientific periodicals and academical collections. Yet so obvious

    · The author here described the share which some of the founders of the As
sociation had respectively taken in planning and conducting the institution.
                           PROCEEDINGS OF THE MEETING.                   XT

was the utility of the proposed undertaking, that, in the very
infancy of the Association, there were found several distinguished
individuals, and chiefly from the University of Cambridge, who
had not even been present at the first meeting, but who volun
teered to undertake some of the most valuable of those reports
which appeared in the first volume of the Proceedings of the As
sociation.            As   Mr.  Whewell enumerated these      in his last year's
                     will  not                                ought, however,
address, I                      further allude to them. It
specially to be observed, that these reports differ entirely from
the short systematic treatises on scientific subjects with which
the press teems. They are not primarily intended for the gene
ral reader -- they are not meant for the purpose of popularizing
technical subjects ; their main object is so to classify existing
discoveries as to lead the individual who is prepared to grapple
with its difficulties, to start with the most complete and accurate
                     of what                        done in any particular sci
kennocwe,le--dgneot  intended   has already been    that knowledge, but merely
                                 itself to contain

to serve the purpose of a catalogue raisonnee, by means of a
lucid analysis and arrangement, at the same time (and here is
the great necessity of securing the cooperation of persons di
stinguished in the several departments,) that the report should
point out the most important questions which remain for solu
tion, whether by direct experiment or by mathematical investi

gat"ioTnh. e second volume of Reports has amply justified the ex
pectations with which it was hailed ; and whilst the first was

chiefly occupied with reports upon great and leading divisions
of science, we have here several happy specimens of a still
greater division of labour, by the discussion within moderate
limits of some particular provinces. Thus, Mr. Taylor has
treated of one particular and                                            in Geo
logy, the formation of Mineral  mVoestinisn,t--ereosnteinogf  question    impor
                                                              the most

tant, in a theoretical point of view, which could have been stated,
and which, from its intimate connexion with commercial specu
lation, might have been expected                              like ours
been more specifically treated of  in a             country              to have
                                   than              it has   been. It   strictly

belongs to the dynamics of the science, to which, since the time
of Hutton, but little attention has been paid until very recently.
By the exertions, however, of Mr. Carne, of Dr. Boase, and Mr.
Henwood of Cornwall, whose researches are to form one point
of discussion in the Geological Section at the present meeting,
the question of the origin of mineral veins, though probably by
no "mTehaants                   has been brought prominently forward.
               decided,         agency was concerned in the disposition  of
               electric

metalliferous veins can scarcely be doubted ; and the connexion
XVI FOURTH REPORT -- 1,834.

between electricity and magnetism, now so fully established, --
the connexion between metalliferous veins and lines of elevation,
and between the latter and the isodynamical lines of terrestrial
magnetic intensity, as suggested by Professor Necker of Geneva,
-- point out a bond of union between this subject and that of ter
restrial magnetism, on which we have a report by Mr. Christie,
where the very interesting direct observations of Mr. Fox of Fal
mouth, on the electro-magnetic action of mineral veins, are par

ticularly noticed. Mr. Christie's theory of the diurnal variation
of the needle, which he is desirous should be submitted to the

test of a laboratory experiment, is likewise intimately connected
with the actual constitution of our globe*. The whole subject

of Terrestrial Magnetism is one of the most interesting and
progressive of the experimental sciences. The determination of
the direction of the magnetic energy by means of two spheri
cal coordinates, termed the variation and the dip, and the mea
sure of the intensity of that force, are the great objects of imme
diate research, as forming a basis of theory. The existence of
four points on the earth's surface, to which the needle tends, has
long been known ; and the position of two of these (in Northern
Asia and America,) has recently been elucidated by the perse
vering efforts of Professor Hansteen and Commander Ross. The
precise numerical determination of the elements just alluded to
acquires a deep and peculiar interest from the multiplied varia
tions which they undergo. Not only are these elements subject
to abrupt and capricious changes, which Baron Humboldt has
termed magnetic storms ; but gradual and progressive variations
are undergone at different hours of the day, at different seasons
of the year, and throughout longer periods, which may even per
                comparison with  the sublime cycles  of Astronomy.
hap"s   bear a    History forms  a more prominent    subject in this
       Natural

volume than in the last, though the reports of Professor Lindley
* on the principal questions at present debated in the Philosophy
of Botany' ; and of Dr. Charles Henry ' on the Philosophy of
the Nervous System', refer only to particular departments of
                    subjects, which
widely   extended   undertaken for   are again to  bemreeestuinmge, d--itnhamt obrey
general   reports,                    the present
Mr. Bentham, on Systematic Botany, and by Dr. Clarke of
Cambridge, on Physiology in general. We cannot but remark
with pleasure, that one of the points for inquiry particularly in
sisted on by Professor Lindley, that of the influence of the che
mical nature of soils, and of the excretions of plants, was taken
up at an early period of the existence of the Association, by one

                    · Report, p. 122-3.
           PROCEEDINGS OF THE MEETING.                                                                XV11

of its most zealous supporters, Dr. Daubeny ; and that, in re
ference to the review by Dr. Henry of the labours of European
physiologists, we may quote, as a national honour, the disco
tvieor"niesOofnotfhtoheueorrgydeainsnetdrinaglpurcaisochntiencdeex, aioIsnswocoainuadtlde   Sir Charles Bell.

                                                                                           occasional apparent opposi
                                                                                           refer to some very pertinent
remarks in the address of Mr. Whewell at the last meeting. The
importance of carrying on both simultaneously and independ
ently, and of looking to our increased knowledge of both as the
only sure means of ultimately reconciling discrepancies, has been
manifested by the desire of the Council of the Association to
procure two distinct reports on the Theory and Practice of Hy
draulics, which have been drawn up with remarkable perspicuity,

and within a small compass, by Mr. Challis and Mr. Rennie.
Both of these gentlemen have shown their zeal in the objects of
the Association by promising to continue their valuable labours.
Mr. Rennie, on that part of his subject which relates to the mo
tion of fluids in open channels, and Mr. Challis on some of those
exceedingly interesting branches of theory altogether modern,
which physically, as well as in their mathematical methods, have
the closest analogy to that case of the motion of fluids treated of
in the present volume, namely, the theory of Sound, and the in
timate constitution of Liquids. When, in addition to these re
ports, we shall have received that undertaken by Mr. Whewell
upon the mathematical theory of Magnetism, Electricity, and
Heat, we shall undoubtedly possess the most complete outline
ex"taInnt  of a department of knowledge entirely                                           of recent
           the science of Hydraulics, indeed, some                                         progress    date.
                                                                                                      in theory
has accompanied the increase of practical information, at least
since the time of Newton ; but in the other strictly practical
report of the present volume, that of Mr. Barlow on the very
interesting subject of the strength of materials, little or nothing
has been done of much theoretical importance since the days of
Galileo. Circumstances, which it would be easy to point out,
prevent our setting out, except in rare cases, from unimpeach
able data ; but several very interesting conclusions of general
application are derivable from well-conducted experiments, and
the Association may claim some credit for having brought into
general notice the ingenious investigations of Mr. Hodgkinson
of  "MaOnncehersetepro,rt,moarned  particularly alluded to in this paper.
                                    that the longest which has been printed
by the Association, remains to be mentioned. It is by Mr.
Peacock on the present state of Mathematics. When we con
sider the vast extent of the subject, and the extremely limited
number of persons, even in the whole of Europe, capable of
xviii                          FOURTH RETORT -- 1834.

undertaking we must consider the production of a work ofit,
so much labour as the present, which, as yet, incomplete, but
which the author has promised to resume, as the best trophya                  it is
           we can refer in proof of the                     pelnatnir,e--eafsficienpcyroooff       As
to which    according to its original                                            a            the
sociation                                                                                     of   the

ability and       the     indefatigable                      industry which has enlisted           in
its service,                proof that                      its aim not the dissemination          of
                -- as                                       is
                                                                       is is
superficial literature, stamped with the                                      eafnfidgytheofcasrceielenscse, ,--abnudt
lowered for the demand of the indolent

that            intended to refine the precious metal until reaches
      it                                                                      it
                                                                                    it
          is
               a
  state of chemical purity, not to alloy and coin for the pura

poses of promiscuous and debased currency. Mr. Peacock
undertook his report in the early days of the Association, when
its friends were yet few and its success dubious its execution
has been delayed by the extent of the subject and labour of the               ;

task. The report on the Differential and Integral Calculus, which
was intended to form the basis of it, delayed, and the present
one devoted to discussion chiefly of algebraic methods, and
      is                    a

a close examination of the metaphysical principles upon which
this interpretation of analysis founded. The author has thus
been led to extend the views which, in his recent systematic

treatise, he had developed in regard to the signs of affection of
algebraic quantities, including those of imaginary quantities, of
discontinuous functions, and the interpretations of zero and infi
nity. The author has then treated of Series, as regards their
fitness for giving directly conclusive results, particularly when
such series are divergent, leaving to the other part of the report
   detail of the progress in the application of series, which
a                                                                             a

                      ;                                                                    it
                                                        :                                                  is
more practical than metaphysical. The author then treats hi
storically of the elementary works in use on Algebra and Trigo
nometry and devotes the last part of the report, consisting of
above fifty pages, to the Theory of Equations, in which he has
minutely analysed some of the most remarkable papers on this
abstruse subject. Altogether this report (especially when com
pleted,) cannot fail to fulfill, in a striking manner, the two great

objects of such works first, to supply those engaged in colla

teral branches of science with the means of referring to and ob
taining the information they may require upon methods which
perhaps are of daily utility in physico-mathematical inquiries,
but with which, from the vast extent of the science of pure ma
thematics, the shortness of human life prevents the possibility
of complete and systematic acquaintance, unless
   a                                                                                 be made
                                                         ;
the special object of study and, in the second place, to point
out, where chasms of reasoning occur, what mathematical me
thods are impregnable, and what rest upon still dubious basis,
PROCEEDINGS OF THE MEETING.                                                    XIX

in a metaphysical point of view, several of             whItichisarme uvcehry   spe
                                                                               to be
cifically treated of in Mr. Peacock's report.
desired that nothing may longer postpone the conclusion of a
wo"rkWwehreichthocsaennaontnfuaaill                                Association.
                                     to reflect honour  upon the   the labours of
                                     Reports the only   fruits of

this Society, there would be no reason to complain. But yet more
specific results of its impulsive action on science may be quoted.
The questions suggested by the reporters and others, and recom
mended for investigation, have met with ready attention from se
veral individuals capable of satisfactorily treating them. Pro
fessor Airy has himself investigated, from direct observation, the
mass of Jupiter, suggested as a desideratum in his report on As
tronomy ; and since the last meeting of the Association, has con
firmed his first results by new observations, which give almost
the same mass by the observed elongations of the satellites, as
had been deduced from the perturbations of the small planets
by Jupiter. Hourly observations of the Thermometer in the
South of England have, in two instances, been commenced ;
and we are assured that the same desirable object is about to
be attained by the zeal of the Committee in India, where the
Association has established a flourishing colony. A series of
the best observations for ascertaining the law which regulates
the fall of rain at different heights, conducted at the sugges
tion of the Physical Section, by Messrs. Phillips and Gray of
York, have been ably discussed by the former gentleman, in
last year's report, and have since been continued. A regu
lar system of Auroral observation, extending from the Shet
land Isles to the Land's End, has been established under the

superintendence of a special committee, and specimens of the

results have been published. Observations on the supposed in
fluence of the Aurora on the Magnetic Needle have likewise
been pursued in consequence of this proceeding. The condi
tions of Terrestrial Magnetism in Ireland have been experimen
tally investigated by Professor Lloyd. An important inquiry
into the law of Isomorphism has been undertaken by a special
committee, which has likewise reported progress ; and an ela
borate synopsis of the whole Fossil Organic Remains found in
Britain is in progress, under the hands of Professor Phillips.
Many specific inquiries are besides going forward, under parti
cular individuals, to whom they were confided ; whilst it is not
to be doubted that numberless persons, many of them perhaps
new to the world of science, are at this moment pursuing inves
tigations recommended in general terms, in one or other of the
pub"liTcaotiootnhesrsofththeeASssooccieiatyti.on has not scrupled to commit a por
tion of the funds at their disposal, for the purpose of pursuing
XX FOURTH REPORT-- 1834.

objects which required an outlay not to be expected from in
dividuals. Among the most important of these is the collec
tion of the Numerical Constants of Nature and Art, which are
of perpetual recurrence in physical inquiries, and which has

been confided to the superintendence of Mr. Babbage. When

objects of still more peculiar national importance presented
themselves, the Association has fulfilled its pledge of stimu
lating Government to the aid of science. Five hundred pounds
have been advanced by the Lords of the Treasury towards the
reductions of the Greenwich Observations, at the instance of the
Association ; and more recently the observations recommended
by the Committee on Tides have been undertaken, by order of
the Lords of the Admiralty, at above 500 stations on the coast

of "BrIintadiinv.iduals, as we have said, have been stimulated by the in

fluence of the Association ; but so may nations and great bodies
of men. Its published proceedings have found their way into
every quarter, and are tending to produce corresponding efforts
in distant lands. Our reports on science have produced some
very interesting counterparts in the literary town of Geneva.
America has taken the lead in several departments of experiment
recommended by the Association ; and the instructions for con
ducting uniform systems of observation have been reprinted and
circulated in the New World. We must likewise consider it as
an especial proof of the influence and importance of the Associa
tion, that a Report on the Progress of American Geology has
been undertaken and executed by Professor Rogers of Philadel
phia*. Similar contributions from some other foreign countries
have been promised, which will extend the utility of the Asso
ciation, by making us acquainted with the more characteristic
state of science in the various parts of Europe. Nor can we fail,
on the present occasion, to consider as a most auspicious pro
mise of the future success of the Association, that the distin
guished Secretary of the Institute of France has not only ho
noured this meeting by his presence, but has promised to interest
that powerful body on behalf of the important objects contem
plated by the Association, which its cooperation might effec

tually secure. The formation of a Statistical Section at Cam

* Some strictures having been made in America on the extracts from this re
port which appeared in the Edinburgh New Philosophical Journal, it may be
proper to remark that, in requesting from Professor Rogers a general outline
of what is known of the geology of the United States, the Association could not
expect that all parts of such a sketch should be verified by the personal obser
vation of the author; it is also due to him to state that his report is published
under the   unavoidable  pdriseasds.va--ntEagdeitor.of                                    author
in passing  through the                                 not  having  been revised by the
                     PROCEEDINGS OF THE MEETING.                             XXI

bridge was the prelude to the establishment of a flourishing
society, which acknowledges itself the offspring of this Institu
tion, and which promises, by a procedure similar to that intro
duced by the Association, to advance materially the greatly neg
lected subject of British statistics.

I" Gentlemen, shall be satisfied
                     a                                     in the preceding hasty re

                              it
                                           it

                                         I

                                                    if,
                                                         it

                                                     I
view, shall have given you some direct and tangible proof of
the working of system, the excellence of which may best beis I I
appreciated by such statements. Did come within the scope
of these observations, (which does not,) could quote exam
ples, equally specific, of the powerful moral influence of the
Association. Yet, in conclusion, will call upon you to remark,
because believe that comes home to the breast of every one
who has habitually attended these our annual reunions, what
                                                                             a

spirit infused into otherwise isolated and perhaps ineffective
exertions, when many minds, conversant with one class of ob

jects, and aiming at one great end, unite in friendly and intel
lectual converse. There an impulse there which no system of
                     a
                            is

                                      is
                                                     is
cold calculation can estimate. There a bond in the sense of
community of purpose, which the cement of society. There

has been, we fear, general but most erroneous impression
abroad, that philosophers are incapable of enjoying, and stoically
superior to, the ordinary sociabilities of life, -- that scientific ar
dour dwells only in the mind of the solitary, and gives place to
narrow-minded jealousy, when another attempts to share the

prize. If, in few cases, such allegations have not been with
                     a                                   to meetings like these that we
                       a

                                     it
                                           is

                                                        a
out a colouring of truth,
should look for cure which no mere reasoning can effect. The
most striking feature of these meetings has ever been, the per
vading sense which has thrown peculiar character over them,
of the                     exinaldteivdidoubajlesc,t--wwhhicichh
stinct   one   great and                                          united so   many di
        and   unconnected                                          not less  has drawn

into this great assembly, the single and unaided labourer in the
cause of science, from the solitudes of the country, or the still
greater intellectual solitude of some noisy and commercial city,
and the phalanx of scholars who have shared the advantages, and
sustained the reputation, of the great academical foundations of

the"  country.       that, looking merely to the moral influence of the
      True
              it
                 is

Association, some there are whose zeal for the promotion of
science places them above the necessity of such an external sti
mulant. But we must not legislate for individual and such rare
cases. Those who have once trod the higher walks of science,
need perhaps no inducements to revisit these sublime elevations.
The footway may be sharp and narrow, surrounded with preci-
XXli                       FOURTH REPORT -- 1834.

pices and occasionally enveloped in mists, -- but they have there
breregaiotnhse,d--tahnadt            elastic air which descends  not to lower
                           pure and  the cloudy openings they    have caught
                           through

rich and extensive views, showing at once the configuration and
the bearing of the country, which less daring spirits must pain
fully and partially explore. Such men are independent of any
reward but that which the exertion itself bestows ; yet, let it
not be called an ignoble motive, if the traveller, embarked on
the discovery of a new, and hitherto untrodden, path, which
leads to the point to which he aspires, feels fresh vigour infused
into his frame, by the consciousness that, in the valley beneath,
a thousand eyes are watching his progress, and that a shout of
applause, unheard except perhaps in imagination by him, will
announce the arrival of the adventurer at the summit of the al

pin"e  chain.              forward  without  anxiety to  the  future  fate of the
       We look
Association. So long as it continues to be guided by the same
principles as heretofore, it cannot fail to confer a substantial be
nefit upon the science of Britain. We have enough of energy
in action to communicate to the many the knowledge of the few,
but it is to prevent the stagnation of the stream at the fountain-
head, which should be our especial object. True it is that but a
few are able or disposed to devote themselves unreservedly to
those great enterprises which require the whole man ; yet,
though it is morally impossible that any others should under
take the highest generalizations to which we have just alluded,
a division of   labIofuronies       as practicable in intellectual as in
nical science.                      designing mind direct the whole,      mecha
                                                                          distinct

labourers may be engaged, unknowing each other's tasks, yet
happy in the consciousness of being more usefully and more
honourably employed than in imperfectly attempting the execu
tion of works which they might individually complete. The ex
quisite piece of mechanism which, in the form of a watch, issues
from the manufactories at Paris or Geneva, has its various ele

ments of its wheels and pinions, its balance and fusee, collected
                                     of the peasantry of the Jura.
fro"m    the detached cottages                                            of  com
                                     effort, to render parts capable
       To combine individual

bination into a whole, to economize time, and thus virtually to
lengthen the lives of those whose exertions are valuable in the
cause of science, may be considered as humble, yet surely most
important, contributions to its advancement. We shall have
little reason to regret the want of a National Institute, whose
existence is the just subject of pride to our continental neigh
bours, so long as individual exertion can supply the stimulus
which even the sunshine of wealth and patronage has sometimes

failed to excite."
              PROCEEDINGS OF THE MEETING.                                    Will

   The Members reassembled at the same time and place on the

evenings of Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, and Friday. At
these meetings lectures on various subjects of science were de-
Jivered by Dr. Robinson, Dr. Lardner, Dr. Buckland, Professor
Sedgwick, and Mr. Whewell. On each evening the Chairmen or
Secretaries of the Sectional Committees reported the proceed
ings which had taken place during the morning in their respec
tive sections. In concluding                                   of the  "traTnhseacwthioonles
of the Medical section, Dr.            the last report         said,
                                       Abercrombie
business of the section, Sir, has been conducted in the most

satisfactory manner, and a great variety of important communi
         has been laid                 abemfoirxeedita;udbieunt cec,onIshidaevreinaglludtheedsetoasthnemot
cations  in general for                       intruded         but little
adapted        words                         with your         attention
Iin very few
              I trust  ; having, therefore,                                  upon
your time,                                                                   while
                       you will indulge me
express in the name of the medical profession of Edinburgh
the high satisfaction we have received from the meeting which
is now drawing to a close, especially
                                             by having been brought
into personal intercourse, and, I trust,     personal friendship with
so many distinguished individuals whose names have been long
familiar to us as holding the highest rank in science. From

Itheir combined exertions we expect the most valuable results to
every department of human knowledge.                           am none of those

who anticipate from the researches of physical science anything
Iadverse to the highest interests of man as a moral being. On

the contrary, am convinced that those who have made the
greatest advances in true science will be the first to acknowledge
their own insignificance when viewed in relation to that incom
prehensible One who guides the planet in its course, and main
tains the complicated movements of ten thousand suns and ten
ltihgoiouns,anIdasmystseamtissfieind,                                        and irre-
                                       undeviating harmony.      Infidelity  united to
                                         are the offspring of  ignorance
presumption ; and the boldest researches of physical science, if
conducted in the spirit of true philosophy, must lead us but to
new discoveries of the power, and wisdom, and harmony, and
beauty which pervade all the works of Him, who is eternal."

   The last General Meeting was held on Saturday the 13th of
September, at 3 p.m., in the hall of the College Library. The
General Secretary reported the Proceedings of the General Com
mittee, the time and place appointed for the next meeting, the
names of the Officers and Council who had been elected, the
objects and extent of the votes of money for promoting experi
ments and investigations, the number and nature of the reports
solicited from men eminent in science, and the recommendations
of special subjects for research.
XXIV                            FOURTH REPORT -- 1834.

   The thanks   oifndthiveidAusaslosc:i--ation  were                         then  voted  to  the  follow
ing bodies and
   On the   motion of                Rev. Dr. Buckland, seconded by the
Rev. Dr.                        the  University of Edinburgh, its Patrons
           Lloyd, --To          the

and Officers, for the ample accommodation afforded to the meet

ing in the College ;                 Greenock,    seconded                         by Prof.   Forbes, --
   On the motion of Lord
To the Royal College of Physicians and the public bodies who
have given or offered the use of their premises to the Association ;

GreOehnothueghm, oEtsioqn.,--of TtohethReevp.roBpardieentorPsowofeltl,heseAcsosnedmedblyb-yroGom. Bs,.
who have given the gratuitous use of their spacious premises,
and fitted them up in a splendid manner for the reception of the
ARsesOvo.ncPiartothifeo. nSme; odtgiownicko,f--RT.oI.thMe Hurigchhilsaonnd,
of Scotland.                                                                  Esq., seconded       by the
                                                                             and Agricultural      Society

Mr. Murchison stated that this Society was eminently en
titled to the thanks of the Association for their liberal and zea
lous endeavours to promote the geology of their country. Inti
mately persuaded that the agricultural and mineral resources of
Scotland would be improved by an increased knowledge of its
subsoil and rocks, the Highland Society had advanced premiums
for the completion of a geological map of Scotland, and had
exerted themselves to obtain possession, through His Majesty's
Government, of the valuable unpublished documents of Dr. Mac-
Culloch, which, without these spirited efforts, might long have

lain dormant.
            matonhdtaiontnkhseofVwietchreee-PRvreoestvei.ddWe--nmtTs.oW(tShhierewDPearlvel,isdidseBencreotnwd(seStdeirr,bTyhKo.PmrHoaf.s,.
   On the
Hamilton,

Brisbane,)
and the Rev. Dr. Robinson)
PhOillniptsh,e--mTootioJonhonf  the Rev.  ;        Harcourt, seconded by Prof.
                                Robison,          and Prof. Forbes, Secretaries
                                          W. V.
                                           Esq.,

for the Edinburgh meeting ;
                                 John Taylor,      Esq.,                           seconded by John
   On the   Emsqo.t,i--onToof   the Treasurer                                      Committee of Re
Robison,                                          and the

ception,

            Mr. Charles Forbes, Treasurer,
           Dr. Christison,
      Dr.                            ~)
               Borthewick,             I

      Mr. Cay,                        y Committee of Reception,
      Mr. Craigie,
      Mr. Burt,                      Jj

and other gentlemen who gave their valuable aid in making ar
rangements for the meeting ;
                 PROCEEDINGS OF THE MEETING.                                        XXT

--TOon   the   motion of  Prof. Sedgwick, seconded by Lord Brougham,
              Arago and   other distinguished foreigners who have ho
         M.
         the meeting with their
noured   Lord Chancellor said,           "prIersiesnecteo  on this  occasion ;      con
   The                                                     second   the motion

Iveying thanks to these             mpeorsftormillustthriisoudsutmy eIn.oweT, henoht,igcherhtoaninolyu,r
               upon to
of being called
to any service have done to this Association, because this your
last day of meeting is (owing to an accident of a domestic na
ture,    which retarded                          the first of my appearing
here.                      my journey,)           of having the honour, the
          I owe it to the   circumstance

very undeserved honour (but yet one of the proudest of my life),
to be a member of the National Institute of France, and the

friend of the distinguished philosopher whose name is mentioned

in this motion. Gentlemen, allow me to say that I look upon
this as one of the most important and                                          of   all the
benefits this Association is calculated          tuonqbueesstotiwon--abtlheat   it  brings

together men of science from every quarter of the world. The
benefits of this are great to science ; but they are great, also, to
society; for in proportion as men know one another, they are
the more disposed to cultivate habits of friendly intercourse,

especially if their intimacy subsists on grounds so mutual as
science : for they who devote themselves to science are of no
country ; over them the angry blast and tempest of war rages
innocuous ; the pursuits in which they unite are naturally favour
      tointhmatindgr,eIatmesetanof  all  objects which     human rulers
able                                the  maintenance       of peace and        ought to
have                                                                           goodwill
among men. It has sometimes been remarked, that war is a
game at which, if the people were wise, governments would not
often play ; and it has also been said of men, that the longer they
live the more clearly they see that life is too short to be spent in
personal quarrels; it is the same with nations : the world is grow
ing too wise and experienced to bear war. As there is no duty
more sacred and imperative on the part of governments than to
promote, by every means, that peace which ought to bind the
Igreat family of mankind together in all its departments and in

stitutions, so hold, that whatever brings men into contact on
such mutual ground as science tends to facilitate the task of
rulers,  and makes it                            at peace with
states.                    easy to       keep     on scientific      neighbouring
          I beg leave,    therefore,       both                     principles and

also on the principles of universal philanthropy, most heartily
to second the motion."
On the motion of the Rev. Dr. Robinson, seconded by Sir
Charles Lemon, thanks were voted to the Rev. William Vernon

Harcourt for his continued and unremitting exertions as General

Secretary.                               c
     1834.
XXVI                      FOURTH REPORT 1834.

The President, in closing the meeting, said, that it had been
his good fortune to attend all the former meetings of the Asso
ciation at York, Oxford, and Cambridge, and he was rejoiced to
think that Scotland had not fallen short in the reception which
it had given them on the present occasion ; he had himself shared
in the benefit of those hospitable feelings with which the Associ
ation had been welcomed, having had the honour that day of
receiving with several distinguished individuals the freedom of
t"hewhCoityhaovfe                   "The eminent foreigners," he
                   Edinburgh*.                                       added,
                    attended the   meeting have all expressed their
                                                                     Idehsaivree
to assist in promoting the objects of the Association, and           I have
been requested by my illustrious friend M. Arago, whom
had the happiness of knowing for nineteen years, to assure them
of his own willingness and that of the Institute of France to co
operate with them in every thing in which mutual assistance
might be serviceable to the advancement of science." He then
adjourned the meeting to the 10th of August, 1835, at Dublin.

                          GENERAL COMMITTEE.

The General Committee met in the apartments of the Royal
Society on Monday the 8th of September, and came to the fol
lowing Resolutions :
forRuthlees.w--orTdhsat'  in Rule
                          Fellows   2,  respecting  privileges of admission,
                                   and  Members     of Royal and Chartered
ofSocieties', be substituted the words 'Fellows and Members
Chartered Literary and Philosophical Societies publishing Trans
actions'.

That grants of pecuniary aid for scientific purposes from the
funds of the Association shall expire at the meeting following
that at which they were granted, unless they shall have been
acted upon, or a continuation of them ordered by the General
Committee.

   Committee of Recommendations. -- That Mr. W. Baily, Sir
D. Brewster, Dr. Brown, Rev. Dr. Buckland, Rev. G. Peacock,
Professor Forbes, Professor Hamilton, Professor Roget, Dr.
Turner, Rev. W. Whewell, Dr. Richardson, and the Rev. W.
V. Harcourt be a Committee to report in what manner the funds
of the Society may be best appropriated to the promotion of sci-

   · At an extraordinary meeting of the Town Council, held on Saturday, the
13th of September, diplomas of the freedom of the City of Edinburgh were pre
sented by the Lord Provost to the following Members of the Association : Sir
Thomas Brisbane, M. Arago, Professor Moll, Dr. Dalton, and Dr. Brown.
         PROCEEDINGS OF THE MEETING.                                           X.Wli

ence, and what reports on the state and progress of science it
is desirable to obtain, directing their attention especially to the
recommendations of the Committees of Science.
That this Committee have power to add to their number the
names of any Members of the Association whose assistance they

may desire.

   That this Committee be directed to communicate with M.

Arago, and to report whether there are any scientific objects
which may be advanced by the cooperation of the Association
with the Institute of France.

That the Committees for Science be requested to communicate
to the Committee of Recommendations any suggestions they
may think useful respecting particular scientific objects which
might be advanced by the appropriation of the funds of the
Association, and particular departments of science on the state
and progress of which reports are wanted.

   Committees of Science. --That the Members of the Committees
of Science established at Cambridge be considered as the Sec
tional Committees of this meeting, with power to add to their
number from the Members of the General Committee.
Two Secretaries
Corresponding    Mweemrebearps.p--oinTthedat             to each Committee.    CEr-

                                                         MM. Arago, Quetelet,
sted, and De la Rive be elected Corresponding Members of the
Association.
   That the Council be empowered to add to the list of corre
sponding members the names of foreigners eminent in science,
and desirous to cooperate in the objects of the Association*.

The Committee met from day to day for the election of Mem

bers.

On Saturday, the Committee of Recommendations having
made their report, after receiving from the Treasurer an account
of the state of the funds, the General Committee adopted the
recommendations and allowed the grants of money therein con
tained.

Letters of invitation to the Association having been received
from the Bristol Institution, the Literary and Philosophical So

ciety of Liverpool, the Royal Dublin Society, the Royal Irish Aca
--demItwy,atshereGsoelovelodg, icTahlatSothceietnyexotf  Ireland,  the University of Dublin,
                                                         meeting   of theAssociation be held
in Dublin, and that the thanks of the Association be returned to the

scientific institutions from which invitations have been received.

   · In consequence of this resolution Baron Humboldt, Professor Berzelius,
Professor Schumacher, Professor Agassiz, and Professor Moll were elected Cor
responding Members of the British Association.

                                                            c2
xxviii                 FOURTH REPORT -- 1834.

   That the Council be instructed to make such arrangements
that the Sections may be enabled to meet for scientific business
on the morning of the second Monday in August.

   That the salary of the Assistant General Secretary be increased
to the sum of 200/. per annum, to enable him to attend at the
places of meeting for the purpose of making arrangements pre
vious to the assembly of the Association, and to bear such ex
penses as the Council may think proper to indicate.

                       Officers and Council elected.

President elect. --Rev. Dr. Lloyd, Prov. of Trin. Coll. Dublin.
Vice- Presidents elect. -- Lord Oxmantown. Rev. W. Whe-

well.                                                                    Professor

   Secretaries for Dublin. -- Professor Hamilton.
Lloyd.
G.ATCGBsroeeesuniansnesttchruaaiarnl.lemt--rS..e--GPcrerWoeJnofteielahrlsiranasylom. TrS--aeACycRillrroeieyfrvtt....arWyRP..er--ovVf.Pe. rDsHosrfao.errscBsCouohucrrrkitsP.lathineidl.l.ipsJ..DEr..
                                                                                                                                                                                                     Brown.
                                                                                                                                                                                                     Drink-
water. Geo. B. Greenough. Dr. Hodgkin. John W. Lubbock.
                       Rev. G. Peacock. Dr.               William Yarrell.
EG.xRoeffnicniioe,.--  The Trustees (Professor  Roget.    R. I. Murchison,
John Taylor,)          and the Officers of      Babbage,
                                            Rtheev.AJs.soYcaiatetiso.n.
    Secretaries.       -- Dr. E. Turner.

        Members of Committees of Sciences elected.

        I. Mathematics and General Physics.

Chairman. -- Rev. W. Whewell.
Deputy Chairmen. -- Rev. Dr. Lloyd. Rev. Dr. Robinson.
Secretaries.-- Professor Forbes. Professor Lloyd.
   Committee. -- M.                  F. Baily.  SiEr .DJa.viCdooBpreewr.steLrie. utSeir
                       ARreavg.o.J.
Thomas Brisbane.                     Bowstead.
nant Drummond. Rev. R. Greswell. Professor Hamilton. Tho
mas Henderson. William Hopkins. Dr. Jackson. Dr. Knight.
Rev. Dr. Lardner. Professor Moll. Rev. R. Murphy. Lieute
nant Murphy. Rev. G. Peacock. Rev. Dr. Pearson. Profes
sor Powell. John Ramage. G. Rennie. Rev. Dr. Robinson.
John Robison. Professor Stevelly. Professor Thomson. Pro
fessor Wallace. W. L. Wharton. Charles Wheatstone.
                      PROCEEDINGS OF THE MEETING.                                                  XXIX

                  II. Chemistry and Mineralogy.
W.DSCCeVoehcmpa.ruiemHrttmaayitrr-taiCeceneosh...ua--r--i--rtm.DDMerrnr..T..hHDJo--ooasphu.enDb.sJer.t.noyPnD.e.aaltrDosDanr.l.rl..TCuDhrWnrr.ieislTrtli.ihasoommnD.arHs.aTtLfhleooiylmdd.s.onPR. reov.

fessor Traill. Dr. William Gregory. Dr. Thomas Clark. Pro
fessor Graham. Arthur Connell. Luke Howard. Charles Ten-
nant. Charles Mackintosh. William West. Richard Phillips.

                      III. Geology and Geography.

J.DCSeehcparuierttmyar-aiCenhs..a--i--rmPPreornofe.fes--sssooLr roJarPdmheiGlslriopenes.n. ocTk..    G. B. Greenough.
                                                                                                   Jameson Torrie. Rev.

      Yates.
      Committee. -- Rev. Dr. Buckland. Dr. Boase. J. Bryce.
Major Clerke. Rev. Professor Sedgwick. Colonel Silvertop.
H.T.Witham. William Smith. John Taylor. W. C. Trevelyan.
JR..  I.  Murchison.    William Hutton. Charles Lvell. L.                                          Horner.
      B.  Pentland.   R.J.Griffith. William Copland. Dr.                                           Hibbert.
R. Stevenson. Lieut. Murphy. William Clift. Sir Thomas
Dick Lauder. Sir George Mackenzie. Rev. Dr. Fleming.
Dr. Traill. Captain Maconochie. Henry Woolcombe. S.P.Pratt.
M. Agassiz. William Nicol. Rev. \y. Turner.

                                                                                ·

                      IV. Natural History.

      SDCCeoehcmparimeurtmtiatytar-eiCnee.s.h--.a----irPGmWro.aiflAelnisa..s--moWrSaYlGikrareraWrrheiaAlllmlir.an.motPtr.JoafredsMinseo. ,rAgBBauasrrsnti.ez.tt. Rev. Dr.
Adam. C. Babington. Dr. Robert Brown. W. Christy.
Dr. Coldstream. Allan Cunningham. John Curtis. David Don.
P.B.Duncan. Dr.R.Dickson. Dr. Daubeny. Rev.L.W.P.Gar-
nons. Dr. Greville. B. D. Greene, Boston, U.S. Professor
Henslow. Professor Hooker. Rev. Dr. Hincks. Professor
Jameson. Rev. L.                                                                                   Dr. Richardson.
                      JJe.nFy.nRs.oyle.  P.MJa.ckSaelyb.y.                                           Colonel Sykes.
Commander Ross.
W. Spence. Richard Taylor. Professor Treviranus. William
Thompson. Dr. Wasse. James Wilson.
XXX  FOURTH REPORT-- 1834.

                      V. Anatomy and Medicine.
   Chairman. -- Dr. Abercrombie.

S. DSCDeoe.mcprBumerttoiytatu-reCgieehh.sat.--oi--rnm.DDernr..D. rRA--.oliJgs.SoeinCtr..aCmhDpaDbrrl.ere.Wlsl. iABllreiPnalrlom.otfte.TsPhsrooormSfeiCsrslosaGnorr.k. .CBlaaWlrliknil.gliaalml.

Clift. Dr. Davidson. Dr. Hodgkin. Dr. Holme. Dr. Home.
Dr. Maclagan. Dr. Roget. James Russell. Dr. Thomson.
Dr. A. T. Thomson. Dr. Wm. Thomson. Professor Trevi-
ranus. Dr. Turner. Dr. Yelloly.

     VI. Statistics.

Chairman. -- Sir Charles Lemon, Bart.
DSCeoecmpreumttayitr-tiCeeesh..a--i--rmHDeornw.. aC--rldelCaEonllpdoh.nienlsCtSo.ynkHeeo.sp.e
                                                                                               Benjamin Hey wood.
                                                                                                Maclean.
                                                                                               Rev. E. Stanley.  J.  E.
Drinkwater. Rev. W. Whewell. The Earl Fitzwilliam. Sir
John Sinclair, Bart. Sir Thomas Acland, Bart. John Kennedy.

Captain Churchill. R. I. Murchison. John Whishaw. Dr.
Chalmers. L. Horner. John Marshall. Neil Malcolm. Fran
cis Clark. Major Shadwell Clerke. George William Wood.
Right Hon. Lord Jeffrey. John Gordon. Sir Henry Jardine.
Right Hon. Holt Mackenzie. Rev. Dr. Henry Duncan. Dr.
Brunton. Rev. Peter Chalmers.

         COMMITTEE OF RECOMMENDATIONS.

   Meetings of this Committee were held on Thursday, Friday,
and Saturday, for the purpose of conferring with M. Arago,
and considering and revising the recommendations to be sub
mitted to the General Committee.

   M. Arago, having been requested to state his views as to
any points on which it appeared to him that it might be use
ful for the British Association to cooperate with the Institute

of France, noticed in particular the great advantage which
might be expected to accrue to magnetical science from the
establishment of observatories furnished with adequate instru
ments, and under the superintendence of a competent observer,
throughout the extensive possessions of the British empire, and
dwelt upon the necessity of arranging magnetical observations
upon a uniform and well-approved plan. He also spoke of the
value of more extensive and systematic observations on the tern
PROCEEDINGS OF THE MEETING.  XXXI

perature of the earth and springs at small and great depths from
the surface, and mentioned some of the sources of error in such
researches, and the means of obviating them*.

    The Committee came to the following Resolutions :
    That it be represented to the Government of this country that
the British Association conceive it would be of great service to

science, if magnetical and meteorological observatories were esta

blished in several parts of the earth, furnished with proper in

struments well constructed on uniform principles, and if provi

sion were made for careful and continued observations at those
places ; -- that in Great Britain and its colonies there are points
favourable for such observations ; and that it is the more desirable
that the British nation should take a part in carrying them on,
since a system of similar observations, as the Association is
informed, has begun to be established in France and its de

pendencies.

    That Mr. Baily, Mr. D. Gilbert, Mr. Lubbock, and the Rev.
G. Peacock be a Committee to make the required representation
to the Government, and to solicit the cooperation of the French
Institute.

   That the East India Company be requested to further the
same objects, especially at their establishment at Madras.

    That notice be given that any persons who may be able to
obtain the temperature of the air, water, and rock, in mines
 and borings of known depth, or the indications of thermo
 meters sunk to different depths, in different kinds of soil and
in different parts of the earth, are requested to make known
their names and the places where they have this opportunity, in
order that they may receive instructions for making such ob
servations, and communicating the results to the Association.

   That Mr. Taylor, Prof. Forbes, Prof. Powell, Mr. R. Fox,
Mr. Lubbock, Dr. Dalton, Rev. Dr. Robinson, Prof. Christie,
Prof. Lloyd, and Prof. Phillips be a Committee, with power to

give instructions and to make arrangements on the subject of
the thermometrical observations recommended in the above reso
lution, and that 100/. be placed at their disposal for these ob

jects f.

   That M. Arago be respectfully requested, with the least pos

sible delay, to publish, and to have reduced, his valuable and ex
tensive collection of magnetical observations made at the obser
vatory at Paris.

   · On the subject of Artesian wells, see the Annuaire for 1835.

  f The Committee has taken steps to have instruments constructed suitable

for the experiments in mines, wells, &c., and to have sufficient instructions con
veyed to persons who will undertake the researches required at selected points
in various parts of the country.
XXX11  FOURTH REPORT-- 1834.

   M. Arago expressed his readiness to comply with the request
of the Committee as soon as it should become practicable ;

and stated that the immense collection referred to (amounting to

more than 100,000 careful observations, and relating to nearly
all parts of magnetical science,) had been some time since des
tined for publication, but that the printing of them had been post
poned in consequence of an application which had come from
England for the cooperation of France in furnishing data for the
improvement of the theory of the tides. When Mr. Lubbock ap
plied to the Bureau des Longitudes, through M. Poisson, for the
loan of the manuscript observations on the tides at Brest, it was

decided, at the earnest recommendation of M. Arago, that an

object in which other nations were thus taking interest should

have the preference given to it; that the observations on the

tides at Brest should be printed at the expense of the French
Government, and that copies should be furnished to those per
sons in foreign countries who were ready to use them.

   The Committee then proceeded to receive and revise the re
commendations laid before them by the Committees of Science.

                 COMMITTEES OF SCIENCE.

                                                                                                                   a

   The several Committees met daily at 10 a.m., to arrange the
business of the Sections and to determine on the recommenda
tions which were to be presented to the Committee appointed
to receive them.

       Committee for Mathematical and Physical Science.

The Committee reported on the part of the Sub-Committee for
                             the tides (see vol. ii.  p. 471.), that
discussing observations on  observations, and the     formation of
the discussion of the tide
tide tables, was in considerable progress, and would be conti
nued with all practicable expedition. That the sum of 50/. only,
out of the 200/. appropriated by the British Association for this
purpose, had at present been paid by the Treasurer ; but that it
was probable that the whole of the sum so appropriated might
be eventually required.
   The gentlemen of the Athenaeum  of  Liverpool,     on being ap

plied to on the part of the British Association, with great libe
rality and kindness sent the original manuscript of Mr. Hutch
inson's observations to Mr. Dessiou of the Admiralty, who was
engaged by the Sub-Committee to discuss them. These observa
tions are now undergoing the requsite calculations.
                  PROCEEDINGS OF THE MEETING.           XXX1U

The Corporation of Liverpool also, at the suggestion of the Sub
committee, have established two sets of apparatus for the pur
pose of making tide observations at Liverpool, the one at the

Clarence Docks, the other at the Black Rock. Mr. Yates of
West Dingle, and Lieut. Drummond, R.N., the director of the
Ordnance Survey of the coast in that neighbourhood, have given
much valuable aid to the objects of the Sub-Committee.
The Committee reported on the part of the Sub-Committee
for superintending the reduction of the Observations of Bradley,
Maskelyne, and Pond, on the Sun, Moon, and Planets, made at
Greenwich, (see vol. ii. p. 469.), that the reduction of these ob
servations   was  in progress ;     tOhabtsetrhveatRioonysaJbl rSotchiaettypuhrpaodseco;--n
tributed a  copy  of Maskelyne's
That the Syndicate of the University Press at Cambridge had
                                    press-work for the printed forms requisite for
gthiveencatlhceulpaatipoenrsa;n--d  That one calculator had been employed since

the beginning of March, in which interval the transits have been
taken out of Bradley and Maskelyne; the means of the wires have

also been deduced, some advances made towards completing the
imperfect transits, and considerable progress in preparing the
apparent right ascensions of the fundamental stars ; -- that a
temporary stop was put to a portion of the work, in conse
quence of a very severe illness with which Professor Airy was at
tacked during the last summer, but that the work was again

proceedingwith as much expedition as possible.
   The Committee reported the following Recommendations :
   1 . That it is desirable that the Constant of Lunar Nutation

should be deduced from observations made with the mural circle

at Greenwich.
   2. That it is expedient that the sum of 100/. be appropriated to
the purpose above mentioned by the British Association ; and
that Sir Thomas Brisbane, Rev. Dr. Robinson, and Mr. Baily be

requested to superintend the deductions.

   3. That it is desirable that the Standard Scale made some
years ago by Mr. Troughton for the town of Aberdeen should
be compared with the Standard Scale recently made for the
Royal Astronomical Society; and that application should be
made by the British Association to the magistrates of that town
for the loan of the same for the purpose above mentioned.

   4. That Mr. Baily be requested to make the requisite com
parisons, provided the loan of the Scale can be obtained *.
   5. That the Difference of Meridians between the Observatories

of Greenwich, Cambridge, Oxford, Edinburgh, Dublin, and Ar-

                                                                                             .

· The scale has been received, and is under examination by Mr. Baily.
XXx'lV  FOURTH REPORT-- 1834.

magh should be determined by means of chronometers, or by
signals, or by both methods, and that application be made to
Government for their assistance in accomplishing this object.
That the Astronomer Royal, Dr. Robinson, Prof. Airy, Prof.
Rigaud, Prof. Henderson, Prof. Hamilton, Sir Thomas Brisbane
and Lieut. Drummond be requested to carry this recommenda
tion into effect.

   6. That Mr. W. Gray, jun., and Prof. Phillips be requested

to continue their experiments on the Quantities of Rain falling
on the top of York Minster and other adjacent stations.

   7. That Mr. Peacock be requested to continue his Report on
certain branches of Analysis for the next meeting.

   8. That Mr. Whewell be requested to execute for the next
meeting the Reports on the Mathematical Theories of Heat,
Electricity, and Magnetism.

   9. That Mr. Challis be requested to proceed with his Report

on the Mathematical Theory of the Motion of Fluids.
   10. That Mr. Rennie be requested to proceed with his Report

on Practical Hydraulics.

   11. That Mr. Willis be requested to prepare his Report upon

Acoustics for the next meeting.

Committee for Chemical and Mineralogical Science.

The Committee reported that they had received statements
of the progress of the experiments on the specific gravity of cer
tain gases, and on the effects of long-continued heat on mineral
and organic substances, for which sums of money had been ap
propriated at a former meeting, and recommended the conti
nuance of those appropriations.

They reported also the following Recommendations :

1. That Mr. Graham be requested to submit to further investi
gation the amount of security to be derived from the Safety Lamp.
   2. That Mr. Graham and Dr. Williams be requested to investi

gate further the phaenomena of Low Combustion.
   S. That a sum of 10/. be placed at the disposal of Mr. Johnston
                       of preparing a specimen   of Chemical  Con
to defray the expense  with the suggestions of
                                                Mr. Babbage.
stants, in conformity
4. ThatDr.Dalton, Dr.Hope, Dr.T.Thompson,Mr.Whewell,
Dr. Turner, Prof. Miller, Dr. Gregory, Dr. Christison, Mr. R.
Phillips, Mr. Graham, Prof. Johnston, Dr. Faraday, Prof. Da-
niell, Dr. Clark, Prof. Cumming, and Dr. Prout be appointed a
Committee, to report to the next Meeting their opinion on the
adoption of an uniform set of Chemical Symbols; with power to
add to their number. Dr. Turner to be Secretary.
5. That Dr. Roget be requested to report on the progress of
                    PROCEEDING OK THE MEETING.                         XXXV

Electro-chemistry and Electro-magnetism, so far as regards the
experimental part of the subject.

   6. The Committee recommended the researches commenced
by Sir David Brewster into the Optical properties of Minerals to
the attention of chemists.

          Committee for Geology and Geography.

    The Committee reported the following Recommendations :
    1. That Mr. Stevenson be requested to complete the Report
of the relative level of land and sea, and on the waste and exten
sion of the land, which he has presented to this Meeting.
   2. That with a view to perfect our knowledge of the Fossil

Ichthyology of the British islands, a sum not exceeding 105 1, be
paid by the Treasurer to Dr. Buckland, Prof. Sedgwick, and
Mr. Murchison, to be applied for the purpose of assisting

M. Agassiz in carrying on his Ichthyological work.
    3. That the recommendations relating to the veins and sections
of Flintshire, the heaves of Cornwall, the quantity of mud and
silt, the experiments of Mr. G. Watt, and the desiderata noticed
by Mr. John Taylor and Mr. Conybeare, and the sixth and tenth

queries, be repeated.
   4. That a sum not exceeding 201. be placed at the disposal of

Mr. J.Yates and Mr. G. Rennie, for the purpose of the experi
ments on the quantity of mud and silt in rivers.
    5? That evidence should be collected as to the direction and

probable sources from which drifted blocks and pebbles, referri-
ble to rocks not existing in the neighbourhood where they now
occur, whether in insulated masses, or in beds of superficial gra
vel, may have been derived * .

   6. That evidence should be collected as to the form anddirec

tion of hills or ridges of superficial gravel, and the sources whence
the materials of such gravel hills may have been transported to
their present place.
   7. That observations should be made on the direction and depth
of grooves and hollows, such as are often found on the faces of
hard rocks and beneath superficial deposits of drifted clay and
gravel not referrible to the action of any existing currents.
8. The Committee further reported that it appeared to them
that the advancement of various branches of science is greatly
                    :--watnhtatofitabne                of the whole     of the
retarded    by the                       accurate map  to the Council  to con
British   Islands                        recommended
sider of the propriety of representing this opinion to His Ma-

    · The Assistant-Secretary has forwarded to persons known to possess infor
mation on these subjects a circular, of which copies may be had on application
to him.
XXX\'i                        FOURTH REPORT*-- 1834.

jesty's Government, with a view of expediting the completion of
the still unfinished or unpublished parts of the Ordnance Survey* .

   * In consequence of this recommendation the following Memorial, upon the
state and progress of the Ordnance Survey of Great Britain, was presented to
the Chancellor of the Exchequer on the part of the Association, by a deputation
from the Council :

                                            Memorial.
" The Trigonometrical Survey of Great Britain, conducted by men of high sci
entific attainments, commenced its operations in 1798, with a view to the con
struction of a general map, and in 1805 the first sheets of that work were pub
lished. Of one hundred and eight sheets required to form the whole map of
England sixty-five only have yet been published, at which rate of progress
thirty years would elapse before the survey could reach the banks of the Tweed.
Now, although from the exertions recently made in this department, the rate of
publication has been accelerated, yet, on reference to the highest authorities on
this subject, no prospect is held out, even upon the present improved system,
that the desired result can be attained in less than ten years, after which the
                 of Scotland  will remain to
ent"irYeomurap  memorialists   conceive that  be constructed.          of the  condition
                                                this simple statement
and future prospects of the Survey might in itself be a sufficient reason to in
duce Parliament to increase the grant allotted to this branch of public service.
But to place the evil complained of in a clear light, they venture to submit to

you"  the following considerations.      of this Map are made by many proprietors of
      Urgent calls for the acceleration
land and mines both in the North of England and in Scotland, who contend that
in the construction of rail-roads, canals, or other public works, that portion
of the kingdom is subjected to great expenses and difficulties from the want of
it. In forming the Western rail-road from London to Bristol an outlay of several
thousand pounds in surveying has been saved by the possession of those por
tions of the Map which are published, whilst the correctness of the physical
features laid down upon them has enabled the engineer at once to select his line
of operations, and thus to gain at least a year of time in the commencement of
the work. Similar results have been obtained in Ireland, in forming the Ulster
canal, in consequence of the publication of the Ordnance Map of that country.
Another important benefit will be conferred upon the public by the completion
of this Map, in the correction of the coast surveys, determining the precise posi
tion of headlands and form of bays ; a point of considerable moment in the
northern parts of this maritime country, where the outline of the coast is broken
and dangerous. In illustration of this it may be mentioned, that in the progress
of the yet unpublished parts of this Survey, errors of position in the most ac
credited charts of this coast have been detected to an extent in one instance of

elev"eYnoumrilemse!morialists particularly invite attention to the fact, that although
a very large portion of the expense relating to the Scottish survey has been in
curred, not only in establishing the great triangulation, but also in minutely and
accurately surveying a large portion of the South-west of Scotland, the mate
rials so collected are now, they believe, laid by in the archives of the Map-office,
without the prospect of their being made available for many years ; whilst it
must be observed that the knowledge thus locked up relates to one of those
tracts of the empire where its diffusion would prove of singular advantage.
Upon this head, indeed, it can be shown that the delay is not only a negative but
a positive evil, in as much as, but for the conviction that many years could
not elapse between the execution of this Survey and its publication, the inhabi

tan"ts   themselves would     have   endeavoured to improve the maps.    Great Britain
                              state  of a national geographical survey,
        In this backward
                      PROCEEDINGS OF THE MEETING.                                     XXXV11

                    Committee for Natural History.

   The Committee reported the following Recommendations :

        It was resolved,

   1 . That Mr. James Wilson be requested to report on the pre

sent state of our knowledge of the geographical distribution of
Insects, particularly Coleoptera.

   2. That Dr. Richardson be requested to prepare a Report on
the state of our knowledge of the Zoology of North America.

stands almost alone among the civilized nations of Europe, whilst it is obvious
that in no country can the perfection of its maps be more imperiously called
for. The trigonometrical survey of Austria is completed as respects the Tyrol,
the"  Eastern      Alps, Bohemia, and Austria Proper.
   "  Prussia      has nearly completed her survey.         of  Cassini,  has  still  deemed  it
      France,      though possessing the elaborate maps
essential to institute a new survey of her whole dominions, which is now going
on in so vigorous a manner, that though only commenced in the year 1828,
there is every reason to suppose that the whole will be finished long before
the"  British survey  (at its present rate of progress) will have been
      Bavaria holds   forth an example highly worthy of imitation.             completed.

                                                                                 Her survey,
commencing in 1819, has made such rapid progress that out of one hundred
sheets to illustrate her territories sixty-three have been already published, and
the whole work will be terminated in six years, and this too upon a scale of

thre"eNionwcheisn  to a mile.     countries  is there the hope that such expenditure of
                   none of these

public money can be repaid, whilst in England and Scotland there are many

districts where the tale of the Trigonometrical Survey will go far towards re
pay"inTghothueghcodsteeopflyprosdeuncstibiolen. of the advantages which must accrue to physical

science from the diffusion of these maps, seeing that the published portions of
them have already enabled the geologist to develope with precision the mineral
structure of large tracts of England, your memorialists solely avoid dwelling
upon this important point because the subject requires more explanation than
      be well condensed into a
can"  Anxious for the progress    short memorial.      its  application   to   national  uses
                                   of science, and

in every portion of the United Kingdom, your memorialists have had their at
tention the more powerfully attracted to the languid condition of the Ordnance
Survey of Great Britain, by the contrast which it presents to the active manner
in which the survey of Ireland is now conducted ; for whilst they rejoice that
this important object is there so munificently supported as to admit of the rapid
publication of a map constructed upon a scale of six inches to a mile, they must
at the same time deplore, in regard to some of the most valuable tracts of
England and Scotland, that a survey upon a scale of only one inch to a mile
is
    m" aYkoinugr  such feeble progress.      trust that His Majesty's Government will
                  memorialists therefore
suggest to Parliament the propriety of an adequate grant for the acceleration of
a work in which so many public interests are involved, and they feel confi
dent that enlightened men of all political parties will unite in the support of
such a truly useful and national measure.
      " By order of the Council of the British Association
                   for the Advancement of Science,
    " May 28, 1835.                                         " ROD. I. MURCHISON,
                      .                      (Signed)                " Chairman."
N.wviii  FOURTH REPORT 1834.

   3. That Dr. Greene and Dr. Hooker be requested to prepare a
Report on the state of our knowledge of the Botany of North

America.
   4. That the Zoological Queries introduced in last year's Re

commendations be continued, except the 6th and 7th.
   5. That the Botanical Inquiries be continued.
   6. As a full and arranged Catalogue of the works on Natural

History (including Memoirs, &c., in Journals and Transactions,)
would greatly facilitate the study of that branch of science, it is
recommended that at the next meeting of the Association a
Committee be appointed for devising the means of forming and
publishing such a catalogue ; and that in the mean time, to aid
the labours of that Committee, gentlemen who have devoted
themselves to the study of particular departments of natural
history be earnestly requested to send in to the Assistant-Secre
tary lists of the works, memoirs, &c., relating to such depart

ments.

         Medical Committee.

    The Medical Committee reported that the sum of 25/. was
placed at the disposal of Dr. Marshall Hall and Mr. Broughton
for the investigation of the subject of the Sensibilities of the
Nerves of the Brain; that these gentlemen have presented a
report, which has been read and highly approved j that their
experiments are not yet complete, but they do not ask for any
further grant for the prosecution of them. (Report received.)

    They further reported that a sum of 25/. was placed at the
disposal of Dr. Roupell and Dr. Hodgkin for prosecuting an in
quiry into the effects of poisons on the animal ceconomy ; that
an interim report has been read from these gentlemen who are
prosecuting the inquiry, and that they do not at present ask for
any further grant.

    The Committee recommended, as an important object of in
quiry, the anatomical relations of the absorbent and venous sy
stems in the different classes of animals, to be illustrated by in
jected preparations and graphic representations.

    The Committee, considering the contradictory results ob
tained by the distinguished anatomists who have prosecuted this
subject of investigation, recommended that two Sub-Committees
be appointed for prosecuting the inquiry, the one to sit at Edin
burgh and the other in London.

   The Edinburgh Sub-Committee to consist of Dr. Allen Thomp
son, Dr. Alison, Dr. Fletcher, Dr. Sharpus, Dr. Hardyside, Dr.
Reid, Mr. Mackenzie and Mr. Dick ; and the London Sub -Com
mittee to consist of Dr. Hodgkin, Dr. Roget, Dr. Clark of Cam
bridge, Mr. Bracey Clark, Mr. Clift and Mr. Broughton, with
PROCEEDINGS OF THE MEETING.  XXXIX

power to add to their numbers. They further recommended
that a sum not exceeding 25 1, should be placed at the disposal
of each Sub-Committee for assisting the prosecution of such re
searches.

   The Committee recommended the prosecution of inquiries on
the pathology of the Nervous System ; on the successive motions
of the different parts of the heart, and the sounds which accom
pany them. Three Committees were named for the prosecution
of these researches in London, Edinburgh, and Dublin.

    The Committee recommended the appointment of Medical
Sub-Committees, to communicate with the Statistical Com
mittee of the Association, or with the Statistical Society in Lon
don, relative to a registration of deaths, comprising particulars

of a medical nature, with the view that if any legislative measure

should hereafter be adopted as to registration, such suggestions
may be offered by the Association as may seem best fitted to at
tain the requisite information for this desirable object. Two
 Committees were named, one in London and the other in Edin
 burgh. London : Drs. Yelloly, Bright, Roget, Bisset Hawkins,
 and Clark, 6, George Street, Hanover Square. Edinburgh :
Drs. Abercrombie, Traill, Christison, W.Thomson, and Alison*.

    The Committee recommended that Dr. Christison be re
quested to draw up a Report on the circumstances in vegetation

which influence th emedicinal efficacy of plants.

                                Statistical Committee.

    The Committee recommended that a Sub-Committee should
be formed, who should associate with themselves certain gentle
men connected with the conduct and publication of the new
Statistical Account of Scotland, to be named by that body for
the purpose of drawing up a set of queries by which more mi
nute information on statistical subjects than that hitherto re
ceived may be obtained, and that the Committee be autho
rized to defray the expense which may attend the printing of the
queries.

   That Mr. Taylor be requested to draw up a series of ques

tions upon the condition and habits of the mining population
of Cornwall and Wales, with a view to obtain a complete ac
count of the statistics of that class.

    The Committee reported that in pursuance of a recommenda
tion of the Association, Professor Jones had applied for leave of
access to the archives of the East India Company, and that
that body, with its accustomed liberality, had afforded him every
facility in prosecuting his researches.

    * · These Committees have been for some time in operation.
xl FOURTH REPORT -- 1834.

APPROPRIATION OF FUNDS,

At the instance of the Committee of Recommendations :         ,,

For the prosecution of Thermometrical Observations

    at various depths from the surface, under the direc
   tion of a Committee named for that purpose . . . 100

On the recommendation of the Committee for Mathematical

and Physical Science :

For determining the Constant of Lunar Nutation from
the Greenwich Observations
                                                              100

For discussing Observations of the Tides in order to
improve the Tide Tables (vote of last year continued
and enlarged)                                                 250

For the construction of a telescopic lens of rock salt,
(vote of last year enlarged)                                  80

On the recommendation of the Committee for Chemical

and Mineralogical Science :

10For the execution of a specimen of chemical constants
   on the plan of Professor Babbage
For experiments on the effects of long-continued heat
....on mineral and organic bodies, (vote of last year
                                                              50
   continued)                                                 50
For determining the specific gravity of hydrogen and

   other gases (vote of last year continued)
On the recommendation of the Geological and Geographi
cal Committee :

For advancing our knowledge of British fossil Ichthy

   ology         on the quantity of mud transported           105
For experiments                                                20

   by rivers

On the recommendation of the Committee of Anatomy and         25
                                                              50
   Physiology :
       For experimental investigations on the effects of poi  20

         sons on the animal economy, (vote of last year con

           tinued)
   For investigating the relations of the absorbent and ve

        nous systems

   For defraying certain expenses incurred in the execution
       of thermometrical observations at Plymouth by the
       late Mr. G. Harvey

                                                       ££60
               PROCEEDINGS OF THE MEETING.                                   xli

                    SECTIONAL MEETINGS.

    The Sections assembled daily at eleven a.m., in the Class
Rooms of the College, to hear the communications in different
departments of science prepared to be laid before them by the
secretaries of their respective committees.

   The following is a list of the communications which were
made to the meeting, divided into four classes : 1st, Reports
on the state and progress of science, drawn up at the request of
the Association ; 2nd, Accounts of researches undertaken at the
request of the Association ; 3rd, Notices in answer to queries and
recommendations proceeding from the Association ; 4th, Miscel
laneous communications.

I. Reports on the State and Progress of Science, drawn up
                at the request of the Association.

Oa the Geology of North America, Part I. By Professor
Rogers.
On the State of our Knowledge of the Laws of Contagion.
By Dr. Henry.
On Animal Physiology. By Dr. Clark, Professor of Ana
tomy, Cambridge.
theOnRevth.eL.reJceennytnsP.rogress and present State of Zoology. By
On the Theory of Capillary Attraction. By the Rev. James
Challis.
   On the Progress and present State of the Science of Physical
Optics. By the Rev. H. Lloyd, Professor of Nat. Phil. Dublin.
   On the                      of Hydraulics considered  as a Branch  of En
gineering     PProagrtreIsIs.    By George Rennie.
           :

II . Accounts of Researches undertaken at the request of the
                                    Association.

Remarks on the relative Level of Land and Sea, &c. By
Robert Stevenson, Engineer.
   Results of a Second Series of twelve months' observations

on the Quantities of Rain falling at different elevations above
the ground. By William Gray, jun., and Professor Phillips.

   Account of the institution of Experiments on the effects of

long-continued Heat. By the Rev. W. V. Harcourt.
   Account of researches in Crystallography. By Professor

Miller.

1834.                          d
XIH FOURTH REPORT 1834.

   Account of the progress of experiments on the nature of the
Secretions from the Roots of Vegetables. By Dr. Daubeny, Pro
fessor of Chemistry and Botany, Oxford.
   Notice of the progress made in the comparative analysis of
Iron in the different stages of its manufacture. By Professor
Johnston.

   Notice of the progress made in determining the specific gravi
ties of Oxygen, Hydrogen, and Carbonic Acid. By Dr. Dalton.
Account of researches on the effects of Poison on the animal
ceconomy. By Dr. Roupell and Dr. Hodgkin.
Account of researches on the Sensibilities of the Nerves of
the Brain. By Dr. Marshall Hall and S. D. Broughton.
   Account of the  BpeyrfEo.rmJ.anDceento.f     Chronometer  with     Glass
Balance-spring.                              a                     a

Notice of the performance of an Instrument for ascertaining
the quantities of mud transported by Rivers. By George Ren-
nie.

III. Notices in reply to Queries and Recommendations of
                                  the Association.

On the electrical condition of Metalliferous Veins. By R. W.
Fox.
   On    itnhethepemcuidlilaarndcicrocuunmtsietasnocef sEngaltatenndd.ingBycRer.taI.inMuCrcohaisl onD.i
stricts
On the direction &c. of Non-metalliferous Fissures. By Pro
fessor Phillips.
On the Limestone of Closeburn. By C. G. S. Menteath.
On the Beds inclosing the Haematite of Dalton. By Professor

J.Sedgwick.

   On the supposed Metamorphosis of Crustacea. By O. West-

wood.

   On the progress made in inquiries relative to the Secretions
from the Roots of Vegetables. By Dr. Dunbar.

   On the nature and quantity of the Gases given off from Ther
mal Springs. By Dr. Daubeny.

   On the purity and specific gravity of Mercury, Dr. Thompson
remarked that he considered the mercury as imported into this
country to be pure, and the specific gravity assigned to it by
Cavendish to be correct, as it agrees with recent determinations

by Mr. Crichton, from experiments continued through a whole
winter.

   On products collected in Chimneys of Furnaces. By Mr.
Lowe.
                PROCEEDINGS OF THE MEETINv..                     xliii

                IV. Miscellaneous Communications.

Abercrombie, Dr. On the study of Mental Philosophy as a
           part of Medical Literature.

Adam, Rev. W. On a Sextant furnished with a Spirit Level,
       to be used at sea or land when the horizon is invisible.
J.Addams, R. On a phaenomenon of Sound.
Adie,    On the Expansion of Stone.
Agassiz. On the Fossil Fishes of Scotland.
         On the recent genus Salmo.
Aitken, Dr. On the Motions of Blood in Mammalia.
Alison, Dr. On the Vital Powers of Arteries leading to in

            flamed parts.

Andrews, T. On certain Caves in Rathlin, &c.

Arago. Remarks on the methods of conducting experimental
       researches in Magnetism, especially for the detection of
     minute variations of Intensity and Direction.

 Proposal of submitting M. Poisson's conclusions regarding
       the Change of Density near the Surface of Fluids to an
       experimental test, by the observation of the angle of the
       complete polarization of light at these surfaces.
       On the hypothesis of Transversal Vibrations in Physical
       Optics, and the claims of Dr. Thomas Young as the first
       to propose it.
Arnott,  JG. .WN.oticOen             Indians.
Auldjo,                    Cocculus            Rotindo  on  the  Statistics
                          of a work   of M.
       of Naples.
Badnall. On Friction on Railways.
Bell, Sir Charles. Discourse on the Nervous System.
Blackadder. Notice of a Fossil Fish from Glammis.
Boase, Dr. Statement of his views on the question of the Stra
       tification of certain primary Rocks.
       On Fissures and Veins.
Boujou, Dr. Sur les rapports reciproques de la Mcdecine et la
       Philosophic
Breen, Hugh. On a property of Numbers.
Brewster, Sir David. On Colours in the spaces of the Rainbow.

       Experiments on the effects of Reflexion from the surfaces
       of Crystals when those surfaces have been altered by so
       lution.

       On a large specimen of Amber from Ava.
       On the Optical Characters of Minerals.
       On the Structure of Feathers.
Brisbane, Sir Thomas. Notice of a fact observed in registering
          the Fall of Rain.
                                       d2
Xliv FOURTH REPORT 1834.

Brisbane, Sir Thomas. Notice of Sand from New South Wales

for the manufacture of Glass.
Notice of an Ephemeris of Halley's Comet by Mr. Rumker.
Brown, Dr. On the Plurality of Embryos in Coniferce.
Brown, Capt. On Pecten aspersus.
J.Brunei. On the Construction of Arches without centering.
Bryce, W.            On certain Caves in the North of Ireland.
Buckland, Rev. Dr. A Lecture on several remarkable Fossil

Fishes and Reptiles, delivered at an Evening Meeting
of the Association.

Notice of a fossil Marine Plant from the Red Sandstone

           near Liverpool.
Bushnan, Dr. On the detection of Worms in the Human

Veins.

Challis, Rev. James. Theoretical explanations of some facts
           relating to the composition of the Colours of the Spec
          trum.

Christie, Professor. Description of a Meteorological Phaenome-

non.

Christison, Professor. Action of Water on Lead.

Clark, Dr. On the use of the Hot Air Blast in Iron-furnaces.
Clarke, Dr. {deceased.) On the Ventilation of Hospitals.
Cleland,  JD. rG. .  On the Statistics of Glasgow.
Dalyell,               On the Propagation of Scottish  Zoophytes.
Dick, David. On the cementing the internal surfaces of Object-

            glasses.

        On a new Suspension Railway.
Dick, William. On the use of the Omentum.

         On the Elastic Tissue of animals.

Observations on the Tongue of the Chamaeleon.
Drake. On    Jth.eEC. haOnngethoef  Colour  in the Elder.
Drinkwater,                         Origin  of the Statistical  Society  of

London.
Dunn, John. Description of a new Clinometer.
Fitzwilliam, Earl. On the details desirable in Statistical Re

           ports relating to Agriculture.
Forbes, Professor. On a new Sympiesometer.
Graham, Professor. On Hydrated Salts.

J.Grant. On Tables of Insurance.

Graves, T. On Exponential Functions.
Gilbertson, William. On Marine Shells of existing species at

           various elevations near Preston.
Gordon, Alex. On the construction and uses of Polyzonal

           Lenses.
Greenock, Lord. On certain Coal Tracts in Scotland.
         PROCEEDINGS OF THE MEETING.                  xlv

Greenock, Lord. Notice of the section of Trap and Sandstone
         in the Castle Hill, Edinburgh.

Greenough, G. B. On the Stratification of certain primary
           Rocks.

Gregory, Dr. W. Notice of various Organic Products.
J.Abstract of Reichenbach's discoveries.
Hailstone, Rev.  On minute Oscillations of the Barometer.
Hall, Colonel. Account of excursions in Quito.
Hall, Elias. Exhibition of a model of the Geology of Derby
shire.

Hamilton, Professor. On Conjugate Functions.
        On a General Method in Dynamics.

Harlan, Dr. Notice of some Organic Remains of the United

States.
Hibbert, Dr. On the ossiferous beds in the Basins of the Forth,

          Clyde, and Tay.

Hodgkinson, E. Experimental Researches on Collision.
Howard, Luke. On the Quantities of Rain at different eleva

tions.

Jameson, Professor. Notice concerning the Fossil Fishes of
Scotland, and the geological age of the formations in
           which they occur.
Jardine, Sir William. Account of Fishes collected in Suther

landshire.

Johnston, Professor. On Oxichloride of Antimony.

Jordan, T. B. On a construction of the Magnetic Needle.
Kemp, K. T. On the Liquefaction of the Gases.
Knight, Dr. On the Organic Remains in the Flints of Peters-
head, &c.

On a method of rendering visible the Vibrations of heated
           Metals.

Lardner, Rev. Dr. A Lecture on Professor Babbage's Calcu
lating Machine, delivered at an Evening Meeting of the
Association.

Lloyd, Prof. On a method of observing the Magnetic Needle.
Lowe, George. Exhibition of certain products obtained in Gas

          Works, &c.
Lyell, Charles. On the relative Level of the Land and Sea on
the shores of Scandinavia.

On the Characters of Stratification in the discussion on

           Primary Rocks.

MacCormochie, Captain. Notice of a work by M. Guerry, Sur

           laStatistique morale de la France.
MacDonnell, Dr. On the Pulse, and the variation of its quick
ness from various causes.
xlvi FOURTH RBPORT 1834.

MacGillivray, W. On the Natural History of the Transition
  Ranges of Scotland.
Exhibition of drawings of the Vertebrate Animals of Great
Britain and Ireland.

Maclaren, Charles. On the Geology of the Pentlands.
Milne, David. On the Geology of Berwickshire.

Murchison, R. I. On the Transition Formations of the Welsh
Border.
Murphy, Rev. R. Notice of some recent electrical Experi
ments, by Mr. Snow Harris, on the retention of Elec
tricity on the surfaces of bodies in vacuo.
Murphy, Lieut. Notice of the progress made in the Ordnance
Survey of Ireland.
         J.OOn nRathtees   of Mortality.
Murray.                   cultivation of Phormium  tenax  in  Scotland.
Murray,
On the Chamseleon.

On the Ascent of the Sap.
Nicol, W.      On  the structure of  Fossil Wood.
Pentland,  J.  B.    On a peculiar   configuration  of  the   Skull  in  a

race of men formerly existing in Peru.
Phillips, Professor. On a method of causing the centre of
gravity of a Dipping-needle to coincide with its axis
of motion.

        On the Stratification of Primary Rocks, (in discussion on
           that subject.)

Powell, Professor. On the Repulsion produced by Heat.
        On the Achromatism of the Eye.
       On the Dispersion of Light.

Quetelet. In a letter to Mr. Whewell, M. Quetelet states his

           belief that he has succeeded in reducing the examination
          of the Law of Population to the discussion of ma
thematical formulas, and requests that his views may be
tested by a comparison of the calculated results with those
furnished by observations in England, the United States,

            and elsewhere.

Ramage, John. On the construction of large reflecting Tele

            scopes.

Reid, Dr. On the Connexion of Muscles with Nerves.
Rennie, G. Notice of the successful performance of an In

          strument to measure the quantity of Mud in the water
           of Rivers.
Robinson, Rev. Dr. A Discourse on Halley's Comet, delivered
           at an Evening Meeting of the Association.

-- On the Visibility of the Moon in total eclipses.
        On the Situation of the Edinburgh Observatory.
                       PROCEEDINGS OF THE MEETING.               xlvii

Royle, J. F. On the Character of the Vegetation of the Hi
           J.malaya Mountains.
Russell,          On the Resistance to Floating Bodies.
            Edward. On the Geometry
S--a--ng,  On Vibrating Wires.       of  Lines  of the  third    order.

        On a property of successive Integer Numbers.

Saull, W. D. Drawing of the Incisors and Canine Teeth of the
           Hippopotamus, from a gravel-pit near Huntingdon.
Saumarez, Richard. On Light and Colours.
Saxton, Joseph. On an Instrument for measuring minute Va
           riations of Temperature in Metal Rods, &c.
Secretary to the Society of the Sons of the Clergy in Scotland.
           Notices relating to a Statistical Survey of Scotland.
Sedgwick, Rev. Professor. On the Stratification of certain Pri
---- AmRaervyieRwocokfst,he(inGereoplolygictoalDPr.roBceoeadsein'sgsvioefwtsh.)e Meeting at
           Edinburgh, delivered at an Evening Meeting of the As

Selby, P.  J.sociation.Notice of Birds collected in Sutherland.

           On the Postorbital Glands in Natatorial Birds.
Sharpey, Dr. On the Vascular System of the Porpoise.
Smith, William. Observations on the Waste and Extension of
           Land on the East Coast of England.

Stanley, Rev. E. Notice regarding Statistical Returns for
           Parishes.
Statistical Society of Manchester, by Mr. Heywood. Statisti
           cal Returns relating to Manchester.
Stevelly, Professor. On some branches of Meteorological Sci

           ence.

        On a Vernier to be adapted to a scale of unequal parts.
Sykes, Lieut.-Col. On Mean Temperatures in India.
Syme, Professor. On removing portions of Joints.
Taylor, John. On the Directions of Mineral Veins in different

           countries.
Thomson, Dr. Allen. On the Structure of the Human Foetus

-- and that of Mammalia at early periods of development.
    -- On the external Gills of the Young of the Skate, and on the
           Gills of some Reptilia.
       On the Change of Colour observable in the Cuttle-fish.
Thomson, Dr. A. T. On Iodides.
Thomson, Dr. T. Notice of a Fossil Plant (probably marine)
           from the Glasgow Coalfield.

Thomson, Dr. W. On black Discoloration of the Lungs.
Toorn, M. Vander. On the Water in Sulphate of Zinc.
xlviii               FOURTH REPORT 1834.

Tough, Rev. Mr. On a Glass Celestial Sphere.
Traill, Professor. On the Laryngeal Sac of the Reindeer.
         On the Geology of the Orkneys.
        On the Fossil Fishes of the Orkneys.

Trevelyan, A. On the application of Vapour of Alcohol to the
         purpose of a chemical Lamp Furnace. (See Phil. Mag.

Trevelya1n8,34W.) . C. On Fossil Wood from Faroe.
        On the Geographical distribution of Plants in Faroe.

Turner, Dr. E. On Atomic Weights ; that they are not repre-
           sentable by whole numbers.
West, William. On the presence of Sulphur in Bar Iron.

Whewell, Rev. W. A Lecture on certain Phenomena of the
        Tides, delivered at an Evening Meeting of the Associa
          tion.
        Suggestions  regarding Sir J. Herschel's explanation of Di

        spersion according to the Undulatory Theory.
Williams, Dr. C. On the State of Knowledge regarding Sound.
        On the Phaenomena of Low Combustion.
J.Wilson,  On the Coleopterous Insects of Sutherland.
J.Yates, Rev.        On some facts regarding the Stratification of

        Primary Rocks.
                   REPORTS

                                                 ON

         THE STATE OF SCIENCE.

Report   on  the  Geology of North     America,  Part I., by  Henry
                           D. Rogers,
                                        F.G.S.

IN obedience to the request of         the British  Association,    ex
                                                    beg leave to  offer
pressed to me at the last Annual       Meeting, I
the following Report on the present state of our knowledge of
the geology of North America.
The magnitude of the region, our remoteness from the foun
tains of science in Europe, and likewise some peculiarities in
the geological structure of the country, have operated hitherto to
make our efforts in exploring its formations tardy and uncertain.
But the friendly interest expressed by the British geologists in
our labours is calculated to cheer and quicken our progress.

   It will be seen to be among not the least important of the
good results of this Association, that it can invigorate by its
ample spirit the youthful science of a distant but kindred con
tinent.
The plan and object of this Report make it necessary to offer
an introductory section on the general physical geography of

the country. In no section of the globe will a more obvious
and marked connexion be seen between the geographical features
of the surface and the geology. Such a description is indispen
sable indeed, for certain geographical boundaries will be found
the best, in fact almost the only, guide we possess at present for
judging of the probable range and extent of certain formations
ovePrhmysaincyaleGxteeongsirvaephdyi.st--ricOtsmnitotitngyettheexpmloinreodr. irregularities, and
confining our survey to the great masses which compose the
continent of North America, its structure will be seen to exhibit

great simplicity and regularity. From the Atlantic to the Pa
cific Ocean, and from the Arctic Sea to the Gulf of Mexico,

the whole area seems naturally divided into two great plains,

1834.             B
5 FOURTH REPORT 1834.

bounded by two broad ranges, or rather belts, of mountains.
One plain, the least considerable by far, occupies the space
between the Atlantic and the Appalachian or Alleghany Moun
tains, and extends from Long Island, or more properly from the
eastern coast of Massachusetts, to the Gulf of Mexico, losing
itself at its south-western termination in the plain of the Mis
sissippi : this last is a portion of the second great plain, which
we may style the central basin of the continent, and occupies
much the largest portion of the whole surface of North America.

In breadth it spreads from the Alleghanies to the Rocky Moun
tains, and expands from the Gulf of Mexico, widening as it
extends northward, until it reaches the Arctic Sea and Hudson's

Bay. Over the whole of this great area occur no mountain

chains, nor any elevations beyond a few long ranges of hills. It

is made up of a few very wide and regular slopes, one from the
Appalachians, westward to the Mississippi ; another, more ex
tensive and very uniform, from the Rocky Mountains eastward
to the same ; and a third from the sources of the Mississippi and
the great lakes northward to the Arctic Sea. The most striking
feature of this region is the amazing uniformity of the whole
surface, rising by a perfectly regular and very gentle ascent from
the Gulf of Mexico to the head waters of the Mississippi, and
the lakes reaching in that space an elevation of not more than
700 or 800 feet, and rising again in a similar manner from the
banks of the Mississippi westward to the very foot of the Rocky
Mountains. From the Alleghanies to the Mississippi the sur
face is more broken into hills, and embraces the most fertile
territory of the United States. Three or four hundred miles
west of the Mississippi a barren desert commences, extending
to the Rocky Mountains, covering a breadth of between four
and five hundred miles, from the Missouri in lat. 46°, the whole
way into Mexico. The territory from the sources of the Missis
sippi, north, is little known except to fur traders and the Indians,
but is always described as low, level, and abounding in lakes.

   Of the two chief mountain belts which range through the con
tinent, both nearly parallel to the adjacent coasts, the Alleghany,
or Appalachian, is by far the least considerable. This system of
mountains separates the central plain or basin of the Mississippi
from the plain next the Atlantic, though its ridges do not in
strictness divide the rivers which severally water the two slopes.
The northern and southern terminations of these mountains are
nit well defined; they commence, however, in Maine, traverse
New England nearly from north to south, deviate from the sea
and enter New York, cross Pennsylvania in a broad belt, in
flecting first to the west and then again to the south, and from
REPORT OX THE UEOLOOY OF NORTH AMERICA.  3

 thence assume a more decidedly south-western course, penetra
 ting deeper into the continent as they traverse Virginia, the two
 Carolinas, and Georgia, into Alabama. Throughout this range,
 especially in the middle and southern portions, they are marked
 by great uniformity of structure, an obvious feature being the
 great length and parallelism of the chains, and the uniform level
 outline of their summits. Their total length is about 1200
 miles, and the zone they cover about 100 miles broad, two
 thirds of which is computed to be occupied by the included
 valleys. They are not lofty, rarely exceeding 3000 feet, and in

 magnitude and grandeur yield immeasurably to the Rocky or
 Chippewayan Mountains which traverse the opposite side of the
 continent.

    This last system of mountains, the Andes of North America,
 skirts the continent on the side of the Pacific in a broad belt from
 the Isthmus of Panama almost to the Arctic Sea, its extreme
 northern limit, as defined by Captain Franklin, being far north
 on the Mackenzie's River. The chains within this zone are
 many of them very lofty, their average direction, until they en
ter Mexico, being nearly north and south. Within the United
States territory they rise abruptly from the sandy plain before
described, in longitude about 32^° west from Washington ; and
from that meridian nearly the whole way to the ocean the region
is mountainous, with elevated sandy plains, and volcanic tracts
resembling those of Mexico. The summits of many of the
Chippewayan chains are far above the limit of perpetual snow,
the highest points being about 12,000 feet above the sea.

    When we regard the grandeur of the dimensions exhibited in
these several divisions of North America, the extreme regularity
prevailing over great distances both in the plains and systems
of mountains, and the straightness and parallelism of these to
its long coasts, we are prepared to look for a proportionately
wide range and uniformity in its geological features. To com
prehend the relations of our formations to each other, and the
true extent of the portion of our geology at present partially
developed, the exhibition of which is in fact the main end and
object of this Report, a further description, rather more in detail,
of our geography is here requisite.

   Let us first contemplate that long and comparatively narrow
plain defined above, which lies between the Atlantic Ocean and
the chains of the Alleghany mountains. This tract, which in the
New England States is very narrow, comprising the mere coast
and islands, expands in its course southward, the mountains in
Carolina being more than 200 miles from the sea. It is divided
longitudinally nearly through its whole length by a well marked

                                        b2
4) FOURTH REPORT 1834.

geographical and geological boundary, commencing on the coast
of Massachusetts and running to Alabama. The boundary meant
is the eastern edge of a well exposed range of primary rocks,
which, from New Jersey as far south as North Carolina, forms a
nearly definite limit to the flowing up of the tide in the Atlantic
rivers. Between it and the ocean the country is throughout
low, flat, and sandy, while westward the rest of the plain rises
in gradually swelling undulations to the base of the blue ridge
or eastern chain of the Alleghanies. The rivers descend from
the mountains over this western portion of the tract, precipitate

themselves over the rocky boundary mentioned, either in falls
or long rapids, and emerge into the tide level to assume at once
a totally new character. South of North Carolina this line of
primary rocks leaves the tide and retires much nearer to the
mountains, though it still preserves its general features, sepa
rating the rolling and picturesque region of the older rocks from
the tertiary plains next the ocean ; and though the tide does not
any longer lave its base, as in Virginia, Maryland and Pennsyl
vania, it still produces rapids and cataracts in the southern
rivers which cross it. Ranging for so very great a distance
with a remarkable uniformity of outline and height, on an
average between 200 and 300 feet above the tide, it consti
tutes as admirable a geographical limit as it does a commercial
one. Nearly all the chief cities of the Atlantic States have
arisen upon this boundary, from the obvious motive of seek
ing the head of navigation ; a striking example of the influence
of geological causes in distributing population and deciding the
political relations of an extensive country. Below this boundary
the aspect of the region is low and monotonous, the general
average elevation of the plain probably not exceeding 100 feet.
Its general width through the Middle and Southern States is
from 100 to 150 miles. As the tide enters this tract so exten

sively, flowing, except in the more southern States, entirely
across  it,       series of very abundant alluvial deposits occurs, dis

tributed throughout. The surface everywhere scooped downais
                 a
from the general level to that of the tide by a multiplicity of
valleys and ravines, the larger of which receive innumerable
inlets and creeks, while the smaller contain marshes and allu
vial meadows. The whole aspect of the barrier of primary rocks
forming the western limits of this plain forcibly suggests the
idea that at rather lower level they once formed the Atlantic
shore, and that they exposed long line of cliffs and hills of
                    :a
gneiss to the fury of the ocean a survey of the plain just de
scribed as strongly suggests the idea that all of has been lifted
                            it

from beneath the waves by submarine force, and its surface
                    a
       REPORT ON THE GEOLOGT OF NORTH AMERICA.            O

cut into the valleys and troughs which it presents by the retreat
of the upheaved waters. The submarine origin of all this tract
will be made apparent in treating of its geology ; but in refer
ence to its valleys, it may be well to remark that it has no doubt
been torn by more than one denuding wave, in as much as the
great current which has evidently rushed over other portions of
the continent has also passed across this tract, and strewed it as
we see with diluvium. How many such denudations of the
strata have operated to form the present broad valleys of its
enormous rivers, or how much of the excavation has been due

to the continued action of the rivers themselves, we have, so far

Iat least, no sufficient data to form a decision.

   The level region here spoken of propose calling, for conve

nience, the Atlantic Plain of the United States, while the ter
ritory between it and the mountains may be fitly entitled the
Atlantic Slope.
The extensive denudation of the surface of this plain will be
                                                          of its geo
found  highly favourable to the accurate   development    rivers that
logy.                                      nature of its
       It is from this and the accessible

we already know more of its strata, and especially of its organic
remains, than we do of any other district of the country. Its
horizontal strata are in many places admirably exposed in the
vertical banks of the rivers, often through many miles' extent;
and the mass of appropriate fossils thus procured, as will be
seen from this Report, is already far from insignificant. This
plain, widening in its range to the south-west, bends round the
southern termination of the Alleghanies in Alabama, and expands
itself into the great central plain or valley of the Mississippi.
The tract in question embraces the greater portion of the newer
secondary and tertiary formations hitherto investigated upon
this continent, though, notwithstanding the great area it covers
from Long Island to Florida, it may yet be found to constitute
but a small section of the whole range of those deposits, when
we shall, on some future day, have explored in detail the vast

plains beyond the Mississippi.
   The ledge of primary rocks, bounding the tertiary and cre
taceous secondary deposits of the Atlantic coast, may be de
lineated by commencing at the city of New York, and tracing a
line marked out by the falls in nearly all the rivers from that

point to the Mississippi. It is thus marked in the falls of the
Passaic at Patterson, in the Raritan near New Brunswick, in

the Millstone near Princeton, in the Delaware at Trenton, the

Schuylkill near Philadelphia, the Brandywine near Wilmington,
the Patapsco near Baltimore, the Potomac at Georgetown, the
Rappahanock near Fredericksburg, James River at Richmond,
6 FOURTH REPORT 1834.

Munford Falls on the Roanoke, the Neuse at Smithfield, Cape
Fear River at Averysboro, the Pedee near Rockingham, the
Wateree near Cambden, the Congaree at Columbia, the Falls at
the junction of the Saluda and Broad Rivers, the Savanna at Au

gusta, the Oconee at Milledgeville, the Ockmulgee at Macon,

Flint River at Fort Lawrence, the Chattahooche at Fort Mit
chell, &c, deviating thence north-west through the state of
Mississippi. Towards the southern termination of this rocky
ledge, in Alabama for instance, it does not consist, as it generally
does elsewhere, of gneiss, but is formed of the ancient sandstone

and limestone of the Alleghanies. It everywhere, however, ap
pears as a natural line of division, of great length and unifor
mity, separating two tracts of very dissimilar geological age and
features. The upper tract, which I have called the Atlantic slope,
a very variable width ; it is narrow in New York and the

SoNseswesEsnegs land States, where the mountains approach the coast,
and narrow also in Alabama, where they approach the plains oc
cupied by the cretaceous rocks of the south, but is much expanded
in Virginia and the Carolinas. Here it has a breadth of about
200 miles, ascending from the tide in an undulating hilly sur
face, to a mean elevation of perhaps 500 or 600 feet near the
mountains. As it approaches these, its hills swell into bolder
dimensions until we  gIatincotnhseistfsootalomf otshte  blue ridge or first
of the Alleghanies.                                     exclusively of the   chain
                                                                             older
sedimentary and stratified primary rocks. This fine hill tract
exhibits a marked uniformity in the direction of its ridges and
valleys, running very generally north-west and south-east, or
parallel with  the mountains. The ridges, though not
long, and the  fertile intervening valleys very extensive.  higIht , eamre
braces a variety of fine soils, and an immense water power in its

rivers and running streams.  States. --I  propose       to treat  of our

   Geology of the United
formations in the order of the latest first, commencing the

Isurvey of each group in the districts where it is best known.
shall therefore, in this first part of my Report, describe whatever
is known of our recent, tertiary, and cretaceous formations, and
shall reserve an account of the rest of the secondary and all the
primary rocks for the next annual meeting of the Association.

By the delay I hope to be able to add materially to the accu
racy of the geological map, and it will enable me to present
some of the results of the geological surveys now set on foot by
the States of Maryland and Tenessee, together with whatever
else may in the mean while be brought to light.
The tertiary and cretaceous groups yet known to us in North

America are confined almost exclusively to the Atlantic plain
REPORT ON' THE GEOLOGY OF NORTH AMERICA.  7

of the United States, and to the southern part of the great cen
tral valley, or basin of the Mississippi. The lines along which
these formations have been traced in the valley of the west are
few and far apart, so that our present survey is chiefly confined
to the tide-water plain along the Atlantic.

    The same line, which was before sketched as forming the
boundary of the Atlantic plain, will be observed, in tracing it
through the states of New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Delaware,
Maryland, Virginia, and North and South Carolina, to coincide
almost exactly with the western limit of the tertiary and se
condary formations here to be discussed. From Long Island,
south, this barrier of primary rocks presents everywhere a re
markably abrupt and well defined line of separation between
these newer deposits and the rocks of older origin. North of
Long Island, on the main land of Connecticut, Rhode Island,
and Massachusetts, the precise position of this line is not so
readily traceable. Along the coast of the two first states little

or nothing of the newer formations is seen ; and, if we except

the small portions stated by Hitchcock as occurring in the valley
of the Connecticut river, and on the eastern peninsula of Mas
sachusetts near Cape Cod, they have not been noticed on the
continent east of New York. The islands of Nantucket, Mar
tha's Vineyard, and Long Island are all, however, embraced
within the area of the upper strata about to be described.

    The acknowledged difficulty of defining the exact aera to
which the newest deposits belong, is sensibly felt in treating
of those of the United States. The amount of strata within
this area which have had their origin in the class of geological
causes at present in action, is, no doubt, very considerable.
Indeed, geologists are accustomed to allude to the changes

wrought by the Mississippi and Niagara as among the most
striking within the recent period anywhere to be met with.
Nevertheless, it seems very possible that a large portion of the
alluvial matter which borders the mouths of the rivers and
coast, may have been formed before the earth, or this conti
nent at least, was tenanted by man. The evidence upon this
point will be given presently. The first class of phaenomena to
be examined are those which are unquestionably recent.

   Of volcanic action we have no traces east of the Mississippi.
The earthquakes which convulse the equatorial and southern

sections of the continent rarely reach the United States ; and
when felt, they come with such greatly diminished force as to
be hardly sensible. The forces now in action are, therefore,
exclusively aqueous. These, however, prevail over very exten
sive areas, as will be seen on adverting to the size and num
8 FOURTH REPORT 1834.

ber of the rivers, the magnitude of the coast, and the enormous

lakes where freshwater deposits are probably accumulating on
a sAcallleuvoifagl reDaetpoexstitesn.t--. From the mouth of St. Croix River to
Florida Point, the length of the Atlantic coast is about 1800
miles ; and along the Gulf of Mexico, from Florida Point to
Sabine River, the boundary of the United States coast, the di
stance is 1100 miles more. The first section receives the rivers

which descend the Atlantic slope. The several basins drained
by these rivers, according to the view given by Darby, are
forty-two in number, and the total area drained is 252,900

square miles.
The smaller river basins in the vicinity of the delta of the
Mississippi, from Sabine River to the western slope of Florida
inclusive, are, excluding the great basin of the Mississippi, six
teen, with an area of 144,240 square miles. The area drained by
Ithe Mississippi and all its tributaries is computed at 1,099,000
square miles.   do not extend the survey to the many large
rivers which enter the gulf west of the Sabine. The quantity
of sediment conveyed to the ocean from so wide an area must
be very enormous ; and, as a proof, we behold either an alluvial
delta or a bar at the mouth of almost every river. The entire
line of sea-coast, from the Sabine to the mouth of the Pearl,

presents an uninterrupted marsh 400 miles long, and from 30
to 50, or even 70 miles wide, the production solely of the Mis
sissippi and the rivers adjacent. From the mouth of the Pearl
eastward, the sandy pine tract reaches the gulf, and extends,
with little interruption, along the whole sea-coast of the Missis
sippi, Alabama, and great part of Florida. Along this part of
the gulf, and along the Atlantic from the point of Florida to
New Jersey, though many extensive marshes occur upon the

coast, the shore is more generally sandy. At the mouths, how
ever, of nearly all the rivers, low, marshy, alluvial tracts are to
be seen. Low down, towards their mouths, these rivers run

through extensive flats or meadows, most of which are at pre
sent elevated above the highest spring-tides, though it is pos
sible that many of them, during unusually heavy storms or
great freshets, may be liable to be partially submerged. These
meadows are often several miles in width, and bordered on each

side by abrupt banks, consisting of the solid strata of the coun
try, so that they have all the aspect of having been, at a former
period, permanently beneath the tides, which, on this suppo
sition, penetrated their valleys in the shape of extensive bays

and estuaries.

The river meadows are never covered by the coating of
         REPORT ON THE GEOLOGY OF NORTH AMERICA.                                  M

diluvial sand and gravel which conceals all the other forma
tions of the country; a circumstance which will enable us to
distinguish between them and another group of more ancient
alluvial deposits to      dtheescMribisesdissfiuprpthi.e--r oIn.am
   Recent Changes     be                                            informed  by  Mr.

                      in

Tanner, the geographer, that a striking example of the manner
in which this river ordinarily varies its channels was witnessed

about two years ago, at the mouth of the Red River. A re
markable bend at that place, known as one of the longest and
most circuitous loops in the Mississippi, was cut off by the
simple expedient of digging a very short trench across the

narrow neck which the stream was daily scooping away. In
24 hours steam-boats passed through the new channel, and it
immediately became the outlet of the Red River, which before
entered the Mississippi by the lower side of the bend, but now
discharges itself along the upper. By this change the river has

been shortened 20 miles.
When it is recollected that in freshets the current of the Mis
sissippi descends at the rate of five and even six miles an hour,
and at low water at the rate of two miles, it will at once be seen
how great a load of sedimentary matter it can annually sweep
down into its delta, and how rapidly this must augment both in
height and superficial area. As an example of the rate at which

it is growing, the Old Balize, a post erected by the French about

the year 1724, at the very mouth of the river, is now two miles
above it. There was not at that time the smallest appearance
of the island, on which, 42 years after, Ulloa caused barracks
to be erected for the pilots, and which is now known as the
New Balize.

The distance from the mouth of the river, at which the chief

deposit of sediment usually takes place, is about two miles.
When these shoals accumulate sufficiently, they form small
islands, which soon unite and reach the continent ; and thus

the delta increases. So enormous has been the growth of such
deposits, not only opposite the mouths of the Mississippi, but
around the whole northern shore of the gulf, that nearly the
entire coast of Louisiana is inaccessible, from the shallowness

of the water, except immediately through the channels of the
rivers.
An almost universal feature in the entrances of the rivers of

the Atlantic is the bar obstructing their mouths. That of the
principal entrance of the Mississippi had, in 1722, about 25 feet
of water upon it ; Ulloa, in 1767, found 20 feet at the highest
flood; and in 1826 the depth was only 16 feet.
Above these obstructions the rivers are generally much
10 FOURTH REPORT 1834.

deeper ; the Mississippi, at New Orleans, being above 100 feet
deep, which depth it preserves to the mouth of the Missouri.
Mobile Bay is crossed by a bar, having only 10 feet of water,
and the bar of the Altamaba of Georgia has 14 feet, which is,

perhaps, about the average depth to be found at the entrance
of  most of                           rivers of        Atlantic
              thTeersroauctehse.r--n  Besides     the  alluvial  coast.
    Alluvial                                     the             flats which  border

so many of the rivers at an elevation of only a few feet above
the tide, and which may have been formed during the present
relative level of the land and sea, there are plains of another
class, which often occupy the sides of the valleys in terraces
               from the rivers. This
more remote                                            common    feature on many
of the rivers  of the United States, I                 mention   not only from my

own observation, but on the authority of various works, as

Stoddard's Sketches, Drake's Picture of Cincinnati, Dar
by's Louisiana, and Professor Hitchcock's Report on the
Geology of Massachusetts; some of them mentioning two,

three, or even more of these river terraces. The latter author

" Ifthus describes them on the Connecticut river in Massachusetts :

       we start from the edge of the stream at low water, and
ascend a bank of 10 or 15 feet high, we shall come upon an
alluvial meadow, which is frequently overflowed, and is conse
quently receiving yearly deposits : this may be regarded as
the lowest terrace. Crossing this, we ascend the escarpment of
a second terrace, 30 or 40 feet in height, which may be seen at
intervals on the same level on all sides of the meadow. This

second terrace is rarely very wide in any place, and seems to be
only the remnant of a meadow, once much more extensive,
which has been worn away. Ascending from this 40 or 50
feet up another escarpment, we reach the plain that forms the
bottom of the great valley of the continent : this constitutes the
upper terrace." He adds, that terraces, more or less distinct,
exist on almost every stream of considerable size in the State,
wherever the banks are low enough to admit of alluvial flats.
Professor Hitchcock imputes these terraced valleys to the sud
den bursting of the barriers of a lake or pond through which
the stream flowed, or the sudden removal of an obstruction in
the river, by which it cut a new channel into the soft soil above

the obstruction. I would beg leave to suggest, however, whe
ther, in the case of so many successive terraces, such an ex
planation is not rendered improbable, from the difficulty of
imagining so many debacles taking place in succession upon
the same river. The circumstance that nearly all our river
valleys which have the structure described, occur in districts
where the rivers could never have been crossed by ridges of
          REPORT ON THE GEOLOGY OF NORTH AMERICA.                                                  11

rock --no relics  of such barriers being seen,              fpolraienx--amisp,le,I                 among
the horizontal    formations of the Atlantic                                                        think,

conclusive evidence that we must seek for some other cause.

That the cause which has given the delta of the Mississippi
its present elevation was the uplifting agency of forces from
within the earth, we shall see additional evidence for admitting,

when I treat presently of some of the newest of our fossilifer-
ous deposits. In the present infancy of geological research in
the United States, we are not prepared to venture any views

upon the age to which the terraces in question belong. It is
very possible that they may be finally referred to several distinct
periods. Many of them are covered by the general capping of
diluvium, which renders it very likely that the date of some
of them is earlier than the recent period. In the absence of
organic remains, it is wisest to leave the discussion of the age
of these formations open until a larger stock of information has

been gathered concerning  them.                             Origin. --Having,
                          and their probable
   Of the Coast Islands,
in the previous section, given some account of a few of the
causes now in action on this continent, as a specimen of the
kind of phenomena which in      this
a scale of peculiar magnitude,                    country present themselves                       on
                                  I               shall proceed to a feature                       in

our geology closely connected with the foregoing class of opera
tions,  ifimI pmlyisintagkethneot,agetankcyingof
and,                                                almost   the very same powers,
                                                  us into
                                                            a period very little, if at
all, earlier than that of the river deltas and alluvium just de
scribed. There is to be seen lying a little off from the main
shore, along the chief extent of the Atlantic coast, an interesting
range of shoals and islands, all running parallel with the shore,
and distinguished by the same uniform features. These long,
narrow, and low islands of sand range from Long Island to
Florida, and around nearly the whole northern sweep of the

Gulf of Mexico. They are rarely more than a mile or two
wide, sometimes 20 or 30 miles long, and, on an average,
about 12 feet high. The geology of Anastasia Island, on the
coast of Florida, is a representation of many others, though it
must be confessed we know extremely little respecting them.
Anastasia Island, opposite St. Augustine, upon the eastern
          Florida, according to Mr.               Dietz {Jour, of                                  Acad.
          Sci. Philadelphia), about 10
                                                  or 12 miles long,                                broad,
coast of2                                                                                   the
         3
of Nat.                                                                                      1-J-
                               is,
                                                                is

                                                                                         a
and has not more than 10 or 12 feet of elevation above the level
of the ocean. It lies parallel to the shore, at distance of from
to miles. The greater part of the northern portion, and
          the whole of the island,                          composed of horizontal
E:rlahyearspsof a semi-indurated rock, consisting wholly of fragments
12 FOORTH REPORT 1834.

of shells, belonging, as far as examined, almost, though not

exclusively, to species inhabiting the adjoining coast. The
mass is divided, by thin seams of some foreign matter, into
layers from 1 to 18 inches thick, and is so soft before exposure
to the air, that it is easily cut by a tool into slabs of any re
quired size, and in this form is extensively used for building.
Near the surface the fragments of the shells, generally speak
ing, are the smallest; but they occur of various sizes, and
frequently in the same layer the shells are entire. Much of
this rock, especially the more comminuted kind, exhibits not
unfrequently a confused crystallization ; this process having
gone so far as to present the fragments in an almost obliter
ated state. The coarse varieties are composed of some frag
ments evidently thus altered, and of others which have not
ytcoeotnthglerousgute, ntuhAse.irAtrcreaoanlosu;vretinrhsgeay;maarateltseoAr..LpueTtxhraeatrasi,aheAllcs.apnboaenlliodcnueglraotpsaar,i,ncAiap.lal lilnoy-f
Say; besides a Mactra, a Donax, a Crepidula, a Lucina, and
another species of Area, which is probably either extinct upon
our coast, or extremely rare. Natica, Oliva, and JVassa tri-
villata, of Say, are also mentioned. Mr. Dietz attributes the
formation of this island to the agitation of the tides and winds,
conceiving the shells to be driven first towards the shore, and
deposited afterwards at their present distance from the beach
Iby the retiring tide. But such an explanation seems not alto

gether satisfactory, for cannot learn that this heaping-up of
shells from beneath the water is anywhere noticed upon our sea-
islands at present. The winds do indeed drive the sands from
the beach, and the shoals which are laid bare at low water, upon
them, but mingled with hardly any shells, while the rock of
Anastasia Island is made up of shells exclusively. Such agita
tion would seem incompatible with the accumulation of so ho
mogeneous a mass, which is found to contain neither pebbles,
sand, nor other transported matter of any sort. My own pre
sent conviction regarding these coast-islands is, That they are
all the portions of a range of shoals or bars formed along the
                  coufrrtehnetstucrobnidnewctaetderswiftrhomtheougrulfr-isvterresa, ma;n--d
line of junction                                                                              the
great in-setting                                                                             that

since the existence of the gulf-stream and the present drainage
of the Atlantic plain, this growth of sediment opposite the coast
                     ;-- that in the
has been going on      of shell-fish  more tranquil places  ;  --upoannd  these
bars, vast colonies                    planted themselves                  that

the whole line of shoals has been lifted, with part of the adjacent
continent, by the force of an earthquake or earthquakes, to
their present small elevation above the waves. Traces of more
       REPORT ON TUB GEOLOGY OF NORTH AMERICA.                               13

than one such up-heave of the continent during the tertiary
period, may possibly be found hereafter, when the various sy
stems of plains and terraces along the rivers and the coast shall

have been more investigated.
There can be no doubt that most of the islands opposite the
coast of the Middle States, New Jersey for instance, are hourly
on the increase. They consist, like the opposite main shore,
of marsh as a substratum, which is seen to receive a covering
of sand blown in from the sea side whenever the tides and gales
are favourable. Thus, the side of these islands next the sea is

sandy and on the increase, while that adjacent to the continent
is marshy, and in many cases appears to be wearing down
under the action of the rapid current which sweeps through the
intervening sound or strait. As a proof of the daily growth of
       of     these islands, or beaches,
some   is     now closed up, though it          satsillthbeyearasrethceallneadm, eCr"anInbleertr,y"

Inlet                                           of the Jersey coast.
                                                 to refer them all to
as  Imt aiys  be seen upon any map
               impossible, therefore,
                                                                        the  period

which produced Anastasia Island, and the islands and coast in
its neighbourhood, though, regarding the manner of their for
mation, there can be no doubt that the same combination of

Icauses, winds and currents, operated in producing them all.
These causes, as  have already shown, are active, in the pre
                                                                             of the
sent day, in   enfofercdtiongI  similar         deposits along the delta     should
Mississippi ;                   perceive        any good reason why we
not admit the agency of the same in remote tertiary periods.
Our rivers, since the appearance of the carboniferous forma
tions, at least, must have been always very large, and have
formed vast deposits of sediment in the sea; and there is
every reason to suppose that the gulf-stream, which has evi
dently much to do in shaping these deposits, has existed since
an early period of our coast formations. The true age of that
great ocean current can only be decided when we know more
thoroughly the geology of the isthmus separating North from

South America. In the mean time we may safely apply the
actions which are daily witnessed upon our coast, to forma
tions so very little older, as that             of Anastasia Island.
   Raised Estuary Formations                                                 --A
                                                of the Gulf of Mexico.
very extensive bed of shells, bordering on the Gulf of Mexico,
seems to claim a position somewhere in the group of formations
now before us. It appears                       to hold a place on the
it were,      obf ythMe r.teCrtoianrryadan: d"  the recent formations.  confines, as
                                                An interesting deposit
described                                                                 It is thus

                                                                        borders the
Gulf of Mexico, and is probably several hundred miles in ex
tent. It consists entirely of two species of shells, Cyrena Ca-
 14 FOURTH REPORT -- 1834.

rolinensis, and Rangia cyrenoides of Des Moulins (Clathrodon
cuneatus, Gray) ; the former, however, is rare, the deposit con
sisting almost entirely of the latter shell. In the vicinity of
Mobile, which is built on a sandy flat, very little elevated above
the tide, the beds in question are superficial, although co
vered by a vegetable mould bearing a forest of gigantic pines.
When one of the trees is prostrated by the wind, the decom
posing shells are seen adhering to the roots, but beneath they
are entire, and nearly as hard, when dry, as the recent species.

It is remarkable that they occur in beds with scarcely any ad

mixture of sand or earth, and they are consequently found
extremely useful in repairing roads, and paving the streets of
the city. They are dug from the surface of the soil, both on
the main shore and the islands of the bay. These deposits
border the bays of the Gulf of Mexico between Mobile and
New Orleans, and they occur in the vicinity of Franklin,
Louisiana. The Chandeleur Isles, between Mobile Bay and
the delta of the Mississippi, consist of deposits of these shells
covered by a fertile soil. The Rangia lives in vast numbers in
the extensive flats below Mobile, burrowing three or four
inches beneath the surface of the sand, in which numerous de
pressions indicate where they are to be found." According to

Mr. Conrad, the Rangia was first seen in a sub-fossil state in

the newer Pleiocene, at the mouth of the Potomac, where, how
ever, it is rare. Though it there occurs in a deposit of marine
shells, the sea appears not to be the usual resort of the species;
and it is only in the brackish water in the bays and estuaries
that it is abundant. He is therefore inclined to regard the few
found in marine deposits as coming from some neighbouring
estuary. As it abounds in the recent state in the present shel
tered sounds which fringe the Gulf of Mexico, the presumption
is very strong that the fossil beds above described are colonies
which, previous to the change of level of the land, flourished in
precisely similar situations. This would account satisfactorily
for the narrow and very long belts in which they run, skirting
round the bays and the coast above its present marshes, from
Pensacola, in Florida, to near Franklin, in Louisiana.

   Diluvial Action over North America. -- Almost the whole

surface of North America, as far as examined, may be said to
be covered with an investment of earth, pebbles, and boulders,
obviously of diluvial origin. The thickness of this deposit varies,
though its average depth may be said to be from ten to twenty

feet. All that low and level tract described as the Atlantic
plain, and also the lower sections of the great valley of the Mis
sissippi, appear to be the districts where it conceals the under
REPORT ON THB GEOLOGY OF NORTH AMERICA.                      15

lying strata to the greatest depth. Over the whole of this ex
tensive territory it covers the horizontal strata of the tertiary
and cretaceous deposits, and obscures them so effectually that,
except in the cliffs, along the rivers, and in the sides of the ra
                               these formations              or never exposed.
vIfinews eanbdegvinalleoyusr,  examination of    are rarely  mass of detritus
                                                 this great
upon the Atlantic coast, we there find it to consist of fine sand
and gravel, in which form it abounds over the peninsula of
Jersey, Maryland, Virginia, and North Carolina, and all the
states along the Atlantic to the Mississippi. This soil along
the seaboard may very possibly, if we judge from its consisting
so entirely of pure finely comminuted sand, have been reclaimed
from the ocean since the general distribution of diluvial matter
over the continent. But even upon this view, it is to be re
garded as the result of diluvial action. The pebbles are of a
kind, in fact, which could only come from the interior, above
the range of rocks bordering the tide. They do not belong to
the tertiary and cretaceous strata of the Atlantic plain, but to
the older rocks of the Atlantic slope and the mountains. As we
advance inward from the coast, the mass of diluvial matter be

comes less sandy and coarser, the soil somewhat less barren,
and the vegetation more diversified, though still consisting
principally of pine. Over the upper portion of the Atlantic
plain, or nearest its rocky boundary, the mass contains the
gravel in a much coarser state, mingled with clay sufficiently
pure for bricks. Rolled blocks and boulders of no inconsiderable
size occur, especially in the valleys of the rivers, when within
ten or twelve miles of the boundary mentioned. For many miles
from the coast there is rarely anything but the diluvium. In
the central districts of the tract the fossiliferous strata appear
beneath it, though near the upper limits of this tract these
often disappear again, and the region immediately eastward of
the rocky boundary presents the diluvium covering another class
of deposits very different from the tertiary and secondary beds
which underlie it near the sea.

The deposit along the east of the rocky boundary, or, in other
words, at the head of tide in the Middle States, is not diluvium,
as from the absence of fossils many might at first imagine. At
many places, as Bordentown on the Delaware, the deep cut of
the Chesapeake and Delaware Canal, Baltimore, &c., the mingled
mass of ordinary diluvium reposes upon very regularly stratified
beds of dark blue clay, containing decayed trees, lignite, and
amber; the whole mass precisely such in appearance and con
tents as to lead to the conviction that it is more probably an al-
16 FOURTH REPORT -- 1834.

lu vial mass deposited in front of the ancient rocky coast, than a
portion of the detritus left by diluvial action.
Proceeding now from the Atlantic plain towards the moun
tains, the diluvial matter is more irregularly distributed, in con

sequence of the undulations of the surface. It may be seen in
greatest quantity in the valleys of the rivers, the boulders which
cover their beds and sides being almost invariably traceable to
formations which lie at some miles' distance to the north-west
and north. This distribution of the diluvium from the north

and north-west is not confined to the rivers whose valleys run
in those directions, but belongs, it is believed, to at least all the

middle and northern latitudes of the continent. It is seen west
of the Alleghanies, throughout the region of the Ohio and Mis
sissippi, as well as extensively over the Atlantic slope and the
tertiary Atlantic plain. Bigsby and the travellers to the north
have already shown it to prevail in the latitudes north of the
United States.

The very extensive valley which crosses Pennsylvania, Mary
land and Virginia, lying immediately east of the blue ridge, though
it consists principally of transition limestone and grey wacke slate,
is strewed also with innumerable blocks and boulders of the same

sandstone which composes most of the blue ridge, and appears,
so far as yet examined, to be newer, together with fragments
from the hills between the valley and the Atlantic. Opposite to
the passes or breaks in this first range of mountains, the quantity
of such transported matter on the south-east of them is particu
larly great ; and many of the first ridges of the chain are covered
to an unknown depth upon their flanks and even their summits
by the diluvial matter in a comminuted state. As an instance, the
mountain which bounds this valley in Pennsylvania, running
west from the Susquehannah through Cumberland county, and
called there the North Mountain, is covered with a mass of little

else than sand, such as could not be derived from the limestone

tract to the south-east, but just such as would be formed from
                               of the sandstones  of the Alleghanies.
theItdiissinstetagtreadtiobny   Hayden, in his    Geological Essays,   that  in

Washington city itself, which is south of the first primary ridge,
and about fifty miles south-east of the mountains, there is a
small area covered with rolled masses of sandstone, some of

which would weigh from 200 to 500 pounds, and containing
perfect impressions of shells resembling Terebrutula. Now, no
fossiliferous formations occur until we pass beyond the blue
Iridge, and the blocks must have come from the north-east or
north, at least sixty miles.   have myself seen fragments of
REPORT ON THE GEOLOGY OF NORTH AMERICA.  17

similar boulders in the neighbourhood of Columbia, on the Sus
quehanna, containing several species of Producta and Terebra-
tula, which could only have come from a like region within the
mountains of Pennsylvania, a distance perhaps of fifty miles at
least. Drake, in his Picture of Cincinnati, mentions large
masses of granite in that part of Ohio, resting upon the ordinary
finer diluvium. The nearest granite on the north is at least one
hundred leagues distant ; while no primary rocks occur south or
east within even a much greater limit. We are reminded here
of the great detached blocks which strew the plains of northern
Europe, and the explanation suggested that they have been car
ried there by floating upon ice. They occur, promiscuously dis
persed over a great extent of country in Ohio, Kentucky, and
Indiana, and are in no way connected with the present river

Ivalleys.

      may mention as an interesting fact, corroborating the opi
nion of the northerly origin of the current here advanced, that

Mr. Conrad, who has explored the State of Alabama, was never

once able to perceive a boulder upon its surface.
   Besides the fossiliferous deposits of very recent date, described

by Mr. Conrad, around the Gulf of Mexico, many of our rivers

adjacent to the sea present extensive beds of shells, of another
class, but probably referrible to the same origin and the same
period of elevation. They consist of the common Ostrea virgi-
nica, almost exclusively, with a very few of the recent univalves
of the coast, all of these being shells peculiar to the bays and
estuaries of the rivers, and the shallow sounds on the inner side
of the Sea Islands and shoals along the coast. The position in
which these beds of shells are invariably seen is upon the low
level plains adjacent to the tide creeks of our rivers, where they
appear to have dwelt in colonies in the sheltered bays at a time
when these plains were at a small depth beneath the water, and
to have been lifted with them by, perhaps, the last shock which
has changed the level of the coast. These shells, in a sub-fossil
state, occur in Cumberland County, New Jersey, on the bank of
Stow Creek, at Egg Harbour, on the Severn, at Euston, in
Maryland ; again, upon the York river in Virginia, and indeed
upon many others of the southern rivers. They occur at the
mouth of the Potomac, resting upon the beds of marine shells,

which were originally described in the Journal of the Academy
of Natural Sciences by Mr. Conrad, and considered by him as
referrible to the newest of our fossiliferous formations. In the

same locality these beds of fossil Ostrea virginica are seen to
be covered by the diluvium, so that there can be no question of
their origin having been during the latest stage, as it were, of

1834.  c
18 .                FOURTH REPORT 1834.

the tertiary period, and not connected, as imagined by the vulgar,
with human agency. The usual position of these beds of Ostrea
is near the rivers, at a small elevation from the tide. They seem
to hold also nearly the same elevation along the coast of New

Jersey and  elsewhere.  --The  above   subdivision of our         strata  is
   Ancient
            Alluvium.

adopted for the sake of treating, under an independent head, a
group of beds of no inconsiderable extent in the United States,
and which, in their phenomena, seem to cast important light
upon the former revolutions of the Atlantic side of the Continent.
They point to a period when this coast had a very different con
figuration, and denote in a striking manner one of the revolutions
which have impressed upon the tract included between the sea
                          peculiar features which it now bears.
and  the mountains the    to immediately underlies, wherever it
The
     formation I allude
occurs, the general investment of diluvium.

  It has produced, hitherto, very few organic remains of the
description proper to enable us to judge of its relative place in
the series ; but as the few shells occasionally found in it belong
to species now inhabiting our Atlantic waters, and as, from all
its other characters, it has evidently been formed under differ
ent circumstances from our other tertiary beds, and at a period
Iapparently much more recent than any of the rest with which it
can be compared,        am induced to place it thus apart, and to
give it provisionally, from its obvious origin, the convenient and
not too theoretical name of 'ancient alluvium.'
   This deposit is
                    the same  which    has usually, in   --thias  country,
gone under the      name of   plastic   clay formation,           title suf
ficiently inappropriate, even were it to express correctly its true
place in the tertiary series, and now particularly ineligible, when,
Iin place of being one of the lowest tertiary deposits, it will be
seen, from  the evidence        shall present, to be one of the very
uppermost.                    am speaking of consist generally of
             The beds I
numerous alternating deposits of gravel, sand, various coloured
tenacious clays, often black and ferruginous conglomerates,
iron ore, and lignite. They occur exposed in the deeper sec
tions of our canals and rail-roads, and in the banks of some of

the rivers, where they usually reach from the water's edge to
an elevation of sixty, seventy, or more feet. They extend along
the upper edge of the Atlantic plain, ranging along the east
ern base of the rocky Atlantic slope, in a belt several miles
wide, and appearing at intervals, where the rivers have cut
through them, from the coast of Massachusetts as far at
least, it is believed, as the Mississippi. Professor Hitchcock,
speaking of these beds in the valley of the Connecticut river,
         REPORT ON THE GEOLOGY OF NORTH AMERICA.                                                     19

Idescribes them under the name of the most recent tertiary,

which have stated to be my own view. But he makes a di
stinction between these and other similar beds in Martha's
Vineyard and elsewhere, which he calls plastic clay. The first,
he says, are horizontal layers of white siliceous sand and blue
plastic clay, almost entirely destitute of any organic remains.
These beds constitute most of the level and elevated terraces

along the valley of this and most of the other rivers of New
England : the height of the plains above the water is from
fifty to one hundred feet. Along the Connecticut, in some
places, the clay beds alone compose the cliff, and are from forty
to more than seventy feet thick. They repose beneath fifteen
or twenty feet of diluvial matter. Their position, and all their
features, here and everywhere else, indicate a general uplift of
the strata along the whole line of the primary boundary when
that boundary formed the coast, and a consequent emergence of

these beds from about the water level, where they seem to have

grown as marshy deltas, accumulated along the ancient mouths
of the rivers. On this supposition, the mouths of the Atlantic
rivers were at the points where they now form their falls, and
break through the boundary of the older rocks ; and it is singular
enough that all the conspicuous deposits of these clays, imbed
ding the trunks of trees and lignite, are just opposite, or near to,
the same points. At    Gay's Head, on the coast  of Martha's Vine
yard, are alternating   sands and clays, which
                                                 I refer to this for
mation, rising in the cliff to a height of between 150 and 200
         The                       a bed of lignite, which is, in some
feet.     five  clays   contain
places,         feet   thick.    It alternates with the clays, especially

the blue, and is often intimately mixed with them, forming a
comminuted dark mass, resembling peat. Woody fibre is often
distinguishable in     it,and the whole has the appearance of a
                                         c

                                                   2a
                                                                                                ;
                                                                                                  a
deposit of peat, through which logs are interspersed. The prin
cipal beds lie not far from the middle of the cliff, and have dip

of from 40° to 50° north. In this lignite bed are found impres
sions of dicotyledonous leaves, apparently Uhnus, Sulix, &c,
trees at present growing in the country. Associated with these
beds of clay, however, occur several variations of sand and what
at first seems startling enough, one bed described as a green sand,
containing remains of Crabs, casts of shells, Alcyonites, &c.,
evidently referrible to the cretaceous formation of New Jersey, and
also interstratified with the same osseous conglomerate, from
which were procured the teeth of Crocodile and several bones,
some of them very large, being nine inches thick, and as much
in length. The worn and mutilated state of these remains, and
the mixture in which they are found, prove forcibly that the bed
20 FOURTH REPORT 1834.

is derived from the violent disintegration of a much more ancient
formation than that in which it occurs, namely, of a cretaceous
deposit, like that of New Jersey, which may possibly underlie
this island and Long Island also, they being exactly in its range.
The dip and contortion of the strata at Gay's Head lend consi
derable probability to the foregoing explanation of the origin of
this bed  of detritus from the  gI reaemnsdanisdc.ussIinngotahreer
ancient   alluvial beds which                                           quarters, the
                                                                      usually nearly
horizontal, or when they incline, it is with a gentle dip towards
the ocean ; but in the strata at Martha's Vineyard the dip is
abrupt and in the contrary direction, being to the north. These
circumstances, taken in conjunction with the fact, that a pre
cisely similar deposit of detritus from the greensand formation
                     Iedhgaeveofsetehnatitgrnooutp  of                beds in many         in
covers the northern                         -- as,  far                east of the  spots  of
New Jersey, where                            me                                     beds

so-called plastic clay and  --ligmniatkee,           for example, between New
Egypt and Bordentown,                               venture to put forward the
suggestion that the cretaceous formations of our coast have
probably extended further to the north-east than at present, oc
cupying what is now Long Island Sound, and its prolongation
eastward. Viewing the island of Martha's Vineyard and Long
Island as remnants of a more extensive ancient tract in structure,

Ilike the peninsula of New Jersey, we can readily account,
think, for all the above phaenomena, together with some others
which they present.
whAicchcorIdihnagvetocaHllietcdhcoanckci,enst imaillalur vsiutrmat,a  of the tertiary clays,
                                                                      underlie the diluvial

covering in both Nantucket and Long Island. They are con
spicuously exposed in New Jersey, in the sections of the rail

road near Amboy, and again very strikingly on the Delaware,
near Bordentown. Here they have all the features which they
display at Martha's Vineyard, with the exception that they are
nearly horizontal and less brightly variegated in colour. Lignite,
containing pyrites, dicotyledonous wood, and amber, abound in
the dark tenacious clay or ancient peat, which has here a thick
ness of many feet. The following description of this formation
in New Jersey and the States south of it will serve to show its

extensive range and important character.
   In ascending the Raritan it is traced on the south-east shore
to within three miles of Brunswick. Approaching Bordentown
by the rail- road it is conspicuously exposed for several miles

in nearly all the deep cuttings. At Bordentown the banks of
the Delaware consist of its various beds of brilliant sands and

dark and white clays for more than two miles. At Philadelphia
it occurs, but at a lower level, remains of trees having been
REPORT ON THE GEOLOGY OF NORTH AMERICA.  21

found forty-five or fifty feet beneath the city. It is seen in the

sections along the Delaware and Chesapeake Canal, where its
black tenacious vegetable clay and its sands precisely resemble
those above : also in the sections of the Newcastle and French-
town rail-road. Around the harbour of Baltimore these de
posits occur on a large scale. In excavations made at Baltimore
abundant remains of trees and their fruits, particularly the black
walnut, have been found at the depth of forty-five or fifty feet.

In Virginia, along the same line, as at Richmond for example,

similar facts are well known. Near Baltimore, in sinking a well
in the Star Fort at Fort M'Henry, two miles below the granite
ridge, or supposed ancient coast, the workmen came upon a
mass of carbonized wood in a boggy marsh fifty feet below the
surface. In digging a well in the same Star Fort (perhaps the
same well) , a tooth of the Mastodon was found at the depth of
nearly sixty feet. At a point on the Chesapeake Bay, about
twenty miles below Baltimore, called Cape Sable, very extensive
beds of these clays occur, abounding in lignite, pyrites, and
amber. The uppermost stratum is sand, very ferruginous, often
sixty or seventy feet thick, then a stratum of lignite three to
four feet. Below this a bed of sand, intermixed with enormous
quantities of pyrites, nests of this mineral occurring from a foot
to a foot and half in thickness, and of fifteen or twenty square
feet in surface. Next follows a bed of earthy lignite, from five
to twelve feet deep, containing an abundance of pyritous wood,
with fragments of bituminous wood thirty feet long. In this
stratum of lignite have been also found specimens of a curious
comb or nest, the work of an insect. These are from one to
three inches in length : each cell has several minute holes. The
substance is a resinous matter, resembling amber in properties,
and the whole nidus is generally attached around a stem or car

bonized twig.
   The next stratum is an argillaceous sandstone two to five feet

thick, uneven on its surface, while the beds above are all nearly
horizontal. Below is a bed of whitish grey clay four feet, and
beneath all a bed of sand. The enormous accumulation of car
bonized trees in this place, now eighty miles in a direct line
from the sea, and at least fifteen from the supposed ancient
coast or boundary of primary rocks, points very clearly to the
existence, at some ancient date, of an extensive delta here.

Whether these beds at Cape Sable may hereafter be found con
tinuous with those around Baltimore in which the Mastodon's
tooth was found, time will ascertain, but as yet we have no data
precise enough from which to infer the probable place of these
beds in the series.
22 KOOHTH REPORT 1834.

   Their geographical position is between the supposed ancient
openings of the Susquehanna and Potomac rivers. No one who
is familiar with the annual floods of these rivers, and has seen

the burden of wood and trees which the former tears up in its

passage through the mountains, and discharges each spring into
the Chesapeake Bay, can doubt that the very same rivers have
probably been employed in olden time in forming these very
tracts of sand, clay, and lignite. There are now in the upper
part of the bay large flats, which consist solely of sand and
drifted timber, the annual scourings of the Susquehanna ; and

if we conceive these tracts to become converted into marshes
and swamps, as might readily happen, we have all the circum
stances, and in the same district, which would be requisite to
produce from these recent deposits beds perfectly similar to the
more ancient ones just described.
Whether those ancient alluvial deposits from Martha's Vine
yard to the Chesapeake are all of one date of formation, and
Iwhat indeed their precise age is, are matters demanding much
future research to determine.      have called these beds alluvial,

but by no means venture to suppose them all the results of ac
cumulation in deltas, strictly so called. Our rivers may have
had basins or estuaries through the tracts in question, through
out which, as well as upon the coast, these beds may have col
lected. The details of this formation further south are not in a

sufficiently authentic shape to be presented ; we know, however,
that similar beds of clays, sands, and lignites occur largely upon
most of the southern rivers, and upon the Mississippi, on a scale
whIicahmisintcrulilnyedgigtoanctoinc.sider as a portion of the same formation
an extensive group of variegated clays and sands which spread
themselves very widely over the States of Georgia and South
Carolina. Like the others before treated of, these contain few

fossils. They are seen to repose in some places upon the cre
taceous rocks, as those in New Jersey do ; in some places upon
Eocene; and they are also found below the diluvium.
These beds have been already referred by Vanuxem to ancient
                            He thus describes them :
allu"vTiahleoaringciine.nt  alluvial is chiefly composed  of red earth.  This

earth is pretty uniform in its character, consisting of sand, with
a minute portion of clay, coloured by red oxide of iron. Its in
ferior parts often contain pebbles, sometimes coarse nodules or
geodes of iron, resting almost invariably on the white or varie
gated clays, or upon those masses which contain littoral shells.
Though not often met with beyond North Carolina, it is ex

tremely abundant in all the States south of it. It appears to
          REPORT OX TUB GUOLOGY OK NORTH AMERICA.                                              23

occupy the highest elevations above the secondary and tertiary
          arnidvercso.nseIqtueins tlyentciroeulyldunnomt ixheadvewibtehenthefortmeertdiarbyy,  our
classes,                                                                                       and
existing
destitute of the fossils which characterize the latter; it must
                                                                   it,
therefore be considered as distinct from                                        is
                                                                   at the same time

that      unlike the modern alluvial, whose origin clearly at
      it
          is
                          is
tributable to the overflow and inundation of our rivers."
This red earth precisely similar to the mixture of sand and
clay which we may witness discharged from some of the turbid
                                                                   is
rivers of the Mississippi in the present day. It seen covering
tertiaries at Augusta in Georgia, Columbia in South Carolina, &c.
The ancient alluvial beds, resembling in all respects those at
Bordentown, are seen along the Santee canal in Georgia, where

they repose on secondary beds. In excavating this canal, not
only the dark vegetable clay before described, but much lignite
and the remains of Mastodon were found, marking the agree
ment of the deposit in all respects with the corresponding beds(a
                                 a
at Baltimore and elsewhere.

   Fossil Mammalia of the United States.--The extinct species
of the higher orders of animals found fossil in the United States
are Mastodon gigantenm, Elejihas primigeniiis, another Ele

phant tooth only being known, differing considerably from
the tooth of either the living or fossil species), Megatherium,
Megalonyx, Bos bombifrons, Bos Pallasii, Bos latifrons,

Cervus americanus, or fossil Elk of Wistar, and Walrus.
   Of living species also found fossil, we may enumerate the
Horse, the Buffalo, and three or four species of Deer. The
situations in which these have been found have been either very
recent undisturbed alluvial bogs, or slightly disturbed marshy
      ;
                              ;

                                                                a
deposit like Big Bone Lick, neither of them covered
                                                                       a                       the
                                                                                   by
general diluvium thirdly, boggy beds containing lignite re-
ferrible to an ancient alluvium, covered by diluvial sand and
gravel and lastly, the floors of caves, buried to very small
depth with earth not described.
   The largest collections of bone remains occur in boggy grounds
called Licks, affording salt, in quest of which the herbivorous
animals, wild and domestic, enter the marshy spot and are
sometimes mired. The most noted of these deposits
                                                                       a                       Big

                                                                                 a is
Bone Lick in Kentucky, occupying the bottom of boggy val
ley kept wet by a number of salt springs, which rise over sur
face of several acres. The spot thus described by Mr. Cooper:
                  is
                     is

                           a

                                       is
                                          is
                                                 a
"The substratum of the country                      fossiliferous limestone. At
the Lick the valley filled up to the depth of not less than thirty
feet with unconsolidated beds of earth of various kinds. The

uppermost of these                  light yellow clay, which apparently                        is
34 FOURTH REPORT -- 1834.

no more than the soil brought down from the high grounds by

rains and land floods. In this yellow earth are found, along
the water courses at various depths, the bones of Buffalos (Bi
son) and other modern animals, many broken, but often quite
entire. Beneath this is another thinner layer of a different soil,
                appearance of having been formerly the bottom        of a
bearing  the    is more gravelly, darker coloured, softer, and      con
marsh.
          It
tains remains of reedy plants, smaller than the cane so abundant
in some parts of Kentucky, with shells of freshwater Mollusca.

In this layer, and sometimes partially imbedded in a stratum of
blue clay, very compact and tenacious, are deposited the bones

of extinct species." Mr. Cooper has been at the pains to com
pute, from the teeth and other parts known to have been re
moved from Big Bone Lick, the number of individuals requisite
.......to furnish the specimens already carried off:
         Mastodon maximus            100            indi--viduals,
         Elephas primigenius          20              --
                                                      --
         Megalonyx Jeffersonii . .   1                --
         ....Bos                                      --
                                     2
         Bos
                bPoamllbaisfrioi ns  1

         Cervus americanus           2

and it is probable that some still remain behind.
   It is possible that the Horse ought to be added to this list of
animals once indigenous to America. During the early settle
ment of the country, the great bones were either lying on the
surface of the ground, or so near it as to be obtained with very
little labour.

The next most important kind of locality in which such re
mains are often found, is simply a soft bog or meadow, where
most of the finest specimens known in this country have been
obtained. As    Ian example of                       condition in which
the Mastodon                         the common     situation of one dis
                is found, may        describe the

interred in 1824 near the sea-coast of New Jersey, three miles

from Longbranch. "The proprietor of the farm, walking over

a reclaimed marsh, observed something projecting through the
turf, which he struck with his foot, and found to be a grinder
tooth. Two other teeth, some pieces of the skull, the spine, the
humeral, and other bones were afterwards found. The soil
around was a soft dark peat, full of vegetable fibres. Though
the skull and many other bones had been removed before
Messrs. Cooper, Dekay, and Van Ransaeller, examined the spot,
they were able to behold the vertebral column with all the joints,
the ribs articulated to them, resting in their natural position,
about eight or ten inches below the surface. The scapulae both
rested upon the heads of the humeri, and these, as in life, in p
REPORT ON THE GEOLOGY OF NORTH AMERICA.            25

vertical position upon the bones of the fore arm. The right fore
arm inclined a little backwards, and the foot immediately below
was a little in advance of the other, in the attitude of walking.
Ten inches below the surface was the sacrum, with the pelvis
united though decayed. The femora were close by, but lay in
a position nearly horizontal, the right less than the left, and
both at right angles with the spine. Both tibiae, each with its
fibula, stood nearly erect in their natural place beneath the fe
mora, and below them were the bones of the hinder feet in their

places : no caudal vertebrae were seen. The marsh had been
drained for three years, and the surface had in consequence
been lowered about two feet, producing, it has been conjectured,

the dislocated attitude of the thigh-bones. Beneath the peaty
bed a sandy stratum was seen, and all the feet were noticed to
Ibe standing upon the top of this floor of the bog."
      have already described the nature of the beds in which the
antediluvian Mastodon tooth was found at Fort M'Henry near
Baltimore; and              the bed in which the
the Megalonyx,  concerning                         cane specimens,
                 &c., have  been buried, I have     no information

sufficiently satisfactory  to offer.  -- Eleph as  prihigbnius :
                           Mammalia.
  Localities of Fossil
Big Bone Lick, Kentucky, the teeth especially in great num
bers. Biggin Swamp, in South Carolina, teeth eight or nine
feet below the surface. (Drayton.) Kentucky has furnished the
greatest number of teeth, but South Carolina the largest col
lection of other parts of the skeleton. (Godman.) Monmouth
County, New Jersey. (Mitchell.)       Opelousas, west of the Missis
sippi, bones and teeth in recent    alluvium. (See Durald in Ann.
                                    Darby in Mitchell's translation
Phil. Trans, vol. vi. p. 55., also
of Cuvier's Theory of the Earth.) Stone in Carolina, teeth.
(Catesby.) Queen Anne's County, Maryland, a grinder, dif
fering considerably from the tooth either of the living or fossil
species, in stiff blue clay by the side of a marsh.

   Mastodon maximus : Big Bone Lick, Kentucky, in a dark

coloured marsh, the upper stratum somewhat gravelly, the

substratum a blue tenacious clay, both imbedding bones ; over
all a light yellow soil, brought apparently from the adjacent
high grounds : all the larger bones broken as if by violent action

(Cooper).
The remains of Mastodon are found indeed in nearly all the
Western States in bogs and soft meadows uncovered by any di
luvial stratum. White River, Indiana, upper jaw and teeth.

(Mitchell.) The marshes and bogs near the Walkill, west of
the Hudson, New York. This vicinity yielded the first and

finest skeleton yet procured, viz. the magnificent specimen in
the Philadelphia Museum. (Peale.) Also on the North Holston,
26 FOURTH REPORT -- 1834.

a branch of the Tennessee river. Carolina, bones, &c., in a

morass like the rest. (Jefferson's notes on Virginia.)
   Again, in Wythe County, Virginia, at five feet below the sur
face, near a salt-lick, a large number of bones, almost an entire
skeleton, was found, said to have been accompanied by a mass
of triturated branches, leaves, &c., enveloped in a sac, supposed
to be the stomach, not however correctly. (See Godman's Nat.
History.) Chester, Orange County, New York, in a peat bog,
four feet beneath the surface, many fine fragments. (Mitchell.)
On the York River some fine members of a skeleton were found,

in marsh mud, surrounded by roots of cypress trees. (Madison,
Medical Repository,) On the coast of New Jersey, near Long
Branch, in a bog, almost an entire skeleton, in the natural erect
posture, the head hardly below the surface. (Cooper's Annals
of the New York Lyceum.) In Rockland County, New York,
grinders three feet           deep in mud. (Mitchell.) Near Baltimore, at
                              digging a well in the Star Fort, in a stratum
Fort M' Henry, in
of marsh mud, nearly sixty feet below the surface, under a layer
of diluvium. (Hayden's Geol. Essays.) Remains of Mastodon
abound at the Salines (Licks) of Great Osage River to as great
an extent, it is said, as at Big Bone Lick, or around the Wal-
killM. e(gGaotdhmearinu.m) .
                              Fragments of at least two skeletons in re
cent marsh, Skidaway Island, Georgia. (Cooper.)
   Mecalonvx. A fragment of an arm or thigh-bone, a com
plete radius, an ulna, three phalangal claw-bones, and some
bones of the feet, found about thirty feet below the surface of
the floor of a cavern in Green Briar County, Virginia.
Big Bone Lick has furnished a large humerus, a                        (Godman.)
                                                                      metacarpal
bone, a right lower maxillary bone with four teeth, a detached
molar tooth in good preservation, a clavicle, a tibia of the right
side. (Cooper.) Megalonyx bones have also been found in White
Cave, Kentucky.
Bos bombifrons : two heads at Big Bone Lick. (Harlan's
Fauna Americana; Wistar's Trans. American Phil. Society.)
Bos Pallasii, Dekay : a          h--eacdlo, sBeilgy  Bone Lick, also  New Ma
                                                     resembles Bos
drid, on the Mississippi,                                             moschatus.
Bos latifrons (Harlan) : a portion of a skull, ten miles from
Big Bone Lick : Cuvier allies it to the Bos Urns of Europe.
   Cervus   americanus           (FHososrilseEl:k)Bi:gtBwooneimLpiecrfkec(tCosokpuelrls),,
Big Bone   Lick (Cooper)      .

Neiv Jersey (Mitchell). The existence of the Horse pervious to
the occupancy of this country by the Europeans, is not well
established by the occurrence of its remains, though the evi

dence is in favour of the opinion. Walrus : anterior portion
of the cranium, fossil, from Accomac County, Virginia. Not
         REPORT ON THE GEOLOGY OF NORTH AMERICA.                    27

known whether it belongs to the living species. This animal
has not been seen on the American coast south of lat. 47°.
         of the New York    Lyceum, vol. ii. p. 271.)
                            believe, by Mr. Vanuxem,
         suggested, first,
I{AIntnwaalss                                          that    all  the

bones of the Mammoth and other extinct quadrupeds of this
country yet found, have been in either the ancient or modern
alluvium. Some have been inclined to attribute them exclu

sively to the catastrophe which has strewed the surface of this
continent with transported blocks and gravel, or have supposed,

Iin other words, that the races perished by that diluvial action

which have before shown to have occurred, after the period of
the ancient alluvium, and prior to the recent. Notwithstanding
the extreme neglect which has been hitherto evinced in record
ing the geological situation of the interesting organic remains
Iof the extinct Mammalia of this country, sufficient information

has been collected to enable us to reason, think with some
                  concerning the date of their disappearance.
cerIttaiwntiyll,  be observed that we have authentic accounts  of the

remains of extinct Mammalia under two entirely dissimilar si

tuations. In one case, as in the Mastodon tooth discovered

near Baltimore, the fossil occurs in an ancient bog, covered by
a thick  Ibehdavoef  sand and diluvium. This is one of the deposits
which                called ancient alluvium, and which seems to

belong to some sera of the tertiary period, but what precise
epoch is at present quite uncertain. Another set, apparently
consisting of the very same species, occurs in the most recent
class of bogs and marshes, buried to a very slight depth be
neath the surface. The latter is the situation in which by far
the largest number of Mastodon, Elephant, and other bones have
been found. These newer bogs or marshes are in no case seen
to be covered by any diluvial matter, but appear, on the con
trary, from their low level and their wet state, being often tra
versed by streams, to have experienced little or no change since
the fossil relics were originally entombed in them. In the re
gions beyond the Alleghanies, most of these remains occur in
spots which are called Salt Licks, which are meadows and
swampy grounds where the soil on the surface of the ground
is impregnated with muriate of soda, from the springs which
empty themselves from the muriatiferous sandstones which
abound in the Western States. Big Bone Lick, in Kentucky, is
an example of one of these. Here have been found not only vast
numbers of the fossil bones of the extinct races, but quantities
almost as great of the Buffalo, besides many of two or three
species of Deer, now, like the Buffalo, indigenous to the country.
This, therefore, would appear to have been resorted to not
only in modern times by the living races, but more anciently by

                                                                         s
28 FOURTH REPORT -- 1S34.

animals now extinct, for the salt, and it may be for the food and
pleasant coolness produced by the marsh. Our travellers to the
western regions, where the Buffalo or Bison now ranges, have
daily opportunities of witnessing these animals entrapped and
perishing in these licks and swamps ; and it seems evident that
the Mastodon and Elephant of former times, from their huge
size and unwieldy forms, must have been equally exposed to
the same fate. Granting such to have been the chief cause

which has buried these races, we see at once why such remains
are found only in meadows or soft places, why they occur at
such small depths, and why in so many cases the head has been
seen resting nearly on the surface of the marsh ; the cranium
universally decayed ; and the skeleton either in its natural erect
position, or the ponderous bones below, and the ribs and verte

brae above. (See Annals of the New York Lyceum, vol. i.

p. 145., also Ossemens Fossiles, 2nd edit. torn. i. pp. 217, 222.)
   The state of perfect preservation in which so many of these
bones are found, is another argument that the animals have
perished by such a cause, and not by any violent catastrophe.
There is at present in the Philadelphia Museum a pair of mag
nificent tusks of the Mastodon, so little acted on by time, that

the beholder almost fancies he sees the marks and scratches on

the enamel which it received in the living state. These beauti
ful remains were found by a countryman in Ohio when digging
an ordinary ditch in his meadow, so that it is probable that the
rest of the skeleton  Ilies near, and at very    little depth. From all
the facts before me,                               in giving my opinion
                         have little hesitation
that the extinct gigantic animals of this continent, the Mastodon,
Elephant, Megalonyx, Megatherium, fossil Bos, and fossil Cervus
lived down to a comparatively recent period, and that some of
them were in existence as long ago as the aera anterior to that
which covered the greatest part of this continent with diluvium.
   Two interesting conclusions seem here naturally to suggest
themselves : first, that the diluvial catastrophe, whatsoever it
may have been, could not have introduced any very material
change of climate or condition upon the continent, or we should

have beheld the races sooner extinguished ; and, secondly, that
the physical features of the surface were the same or very nearly
the same when the Mastodon lived as now ; so that his extinc
tion seems neither traceable to violent revolutions, so called, nor
to any decided change of climate ; which, seeing that no appre
ciable change of physical geography has taken place since his

day, ought to remain the same now as when he formerly stalked
through the continent, and perished in the same morasses

which at this day entrap and bury our less gigantic living races
of animals.
REPORT ON THE GEOLOGY OF NORTH AMERICA.                                           29

  It may seem at variance with what I have here advanced of

the recent and tranquil extinction of these animals, that in the
enormous accumulation of their relics at Big Bone Lick, the
boggy matter should be found partially filled with gravel, and
the larger bones universally fractured. However, the small
amount of gravel described as mingling with the peaty mass,
seems hardly to imply that this spot was visited at this time by
any violent action, such as covered the adjoining hills with their

boulders and gravel ; so that, on the whole, I am most inclined

to explain the fractured condition of the jaws, femora, &c., by
the constant treading and floundering of the huge animals over
               Foofrmthaetiironasn.ce--stoMras.ny
the skeletons                                      circumstances       tend to give

   Tertiary
peculiar interest to the tertiary geology of America at the pre
sent time. The day appears to have come when some of the

broad conclusions recently arrived at in Europe may be fitly
tested by a comparison with the phaenomena of remoter regions,
and America would seem to be so much dissociated from Eu

rope, both by its insulated position and different physical struc
ture, that the comparison between them will possess peculiar
weight. The great range which characterizes all the deposits
of America belongs, no less remarkably, to those of the tertiary
age, and affords a very favourable opportunity for ascertaining
to what extent formations so recent may be distributed
without departing materially from an uniform type, or where
they do depart, of determining the causes which influence the
variation. The existing animal and vegetable races of this
hemisphere differ so widely from those of the Old World, that
we are induced to inquire when, or whether at any time, the
species on the opposite sides of the Atlantic were more nearly
identical. These inquiries, bearing intimately on some of the
most important questions of
cussed with great ability by  the science,         have          been   recently  dis
                                                                 not   consider   that
                              Mr. Lyell.           I do

our researches have proceeded to a sufficient length to render
Ithem of much    weight upon many points in tertiary geology ; but
   nevertheless  venture to remark, that they will be found to af
ford a striking corroboration of the soundness of the new prin
ciple upon which the tertiary formations of Europe have been
arranged in chronological order by Lyell. They will perhaps
be seen at the same time to suggest some slight changes in the
views hitherto entertained respecting the different circumstances
under which tertiary and secondary groups are supposed to have

been severally formed.
   The area within which the tertiary deposits of this country
               as our  information at                                         that por
occur, so far  United   States which               pIrehseanvet  extends, is   Atlantic
tion of the                                                       styled the
so FOURTH REPORT -- 1834.

plain, together with an undefined portion of the part of the
great central plain of the continent which is connected with
the Mississippi.

   The northern limit of the tertiaries, so far as at present une
quivocally ascertained, is in the south-eastern corner of New
Jersey, adjacent to the Delaware Bay. Here it appears to com
pose the greater part of the counties of Cape May, Cumberland,
and the south-west corner of Salem. From that point it is be
lieved to extend almost continuously through the eastern por
tions of Delaware, Maryland, Virginia, and North Carolina, and
in interrupted patches further south through South Carolina,
Georgia, Alabama, and Mississippi into Louisiana, and the ter
ritory west of the Mississippi river.

   The following arrangement will show the range, as far as hi
therto discovered, of the tertiary and recent formations of this
country.

Synoptical Table of Recent and Tertiary Formations of the

                                      United States.

Periods.  Character of Formations.         Localities of the Formations.

Recent.   Modem alluvium, consisting       Deltas of nearly all the rivers,
            of sands, clays, and marshes,    especially the Mississippi.
            containing trunks of trees;
            and occasionally relics of
            human workmanship.

          Terraced valleys of alluvial     Connecticut, and many other
            origin.                          rivers, especially in the New

                                             England States.

          1. Loose shell rock, composed of Anastasia Island, and the sea
          comminuted fragments of islands and beaches parallel
                                           to the coasts of Georgia and
          shells, exclusively those now
          found recent on the coast.       Florida generally. Probably

                                           most of the other sand

                                           beaches and islands also,

                                           which lie along the coast as

                                           far as Long Island.

          ?. Raised estuary formation, Extends along the whole shore
                  formed almost entirely of of the Gulf of Mexico from
          shells of the Rangia Cyre- Pensacola to Franklin in
          noides in a subfossil state.     Louisiana, bends around

                                           Mobile Bay, Lake Pontchar-
                                           train, and ranges across the
                                           delta of the Mississippi, im
                                           mediately above its marshes,
                                           a total distance of nearly 300

                                           miles, and probably much
                                           further.
REPORT ON THE GEOLOGY OF NORTH AMERICA.                     ,·51

Periods.     Character of Formations.            Localities of the Formations.

           3. Banks of oyster shells, ascribed New Jersey; Choptank River,
             to the Indians, contain oc                     York River,
                                                 Maryland;
             casionally fragments of older Virginia, &c.
             tertiary shells, as Pectens,
             &c ; matrix generally sandy,
             like that of the beach.

Diluvial.    Boulders,pebbles, and sand, de      Surface of the United States
               rived from the primary and          generally.
               ancientsecondary rocks of the
               interior. Noorganicremains.

Ancient Al   Beds of clay and variegated         Martha's Vineyard ; Long Is
 luvial.       sands. One bed is a deep            land ; greater part of New
               black tenacious clay, con           Jersey from Amboy Bay
               taining leaves, trunks of trees,    along the sections of the rail
                                                   road to Bordentown ; Chesa
               lignite, amber, and vegetable       peake and Delaware Canal
                                                   in Delaware; Telegraph Hill,
              products generally. It has           Baltimore ; near the city of
               all the aspect of having been       Richmond, Virginia; Cape
                                                   Sable in the Chesapeake Bay,
               once a saltwater marsh, si          Maryland. There is little
               milar to that now at the mouth      doubt that the same appears
                                                  interruptedly the whole way
               of the Mississippi. No re           to the Mississippi.
               mains but such as are sup
              posed to belong to existing
              species have hitherto been

               found in these clays, and they

               are therefore, for the present,
              put apart from the true ter
               tiary formations.

Newer Plei- A lead-coloured clay.                Mouth of the Potomac, St,
                                                   Mary's County, Maryland.
  ocene.

Oldek Plei-  Alternating beds of sand and        Cumberland County, New Jer
                                                   sey; Cantwell's Bridge, De
 ocene and     clay, the sandy beds often          laware; Chester Town; East-
               abounding in fossil shells,         011, and nearly all the eastern
 Meiocene.     which are sometimes in a            shore of Maryland; the whole
               friable and pulverulent state,      of Charles, St. Mary's, Cal
               giving the bed the character        vert, and part of Prince

               of a shell marl. These fos-         George Counties, Maryland.
               silifcrous beds rest almost         In Virginia, in Lancaster,
               invariably on a bed of blue
                                                   Gloucester, and all the pen
               clay; sometimes the sands           insula between James and
               are greenish, but more usu
               ally they are yellow with a         York rivers; also nearly all
               slight admixture of clay.           Norfolk, Nansemond, Isle of

                                                   Wight, Surrey, and Prince
                                                   George Counties. In North
                                                   Carolina, near the towns of
                                                   Wilmington, Murfreesboro',

                                                   and throughout the counties
                                                   of Craven,DupIin, &c, across
                                                   the State. In South Carolina,
                                                   Vances ferry on Santee river
                                                   seems to be about the termi

                                                   nation of the middle tertiary
                                                   groups of the United States.
32 FOURTH REPOHT -- 1834.

Periods.    Character of Formations.          Localities of the Formations.

Eocene.     A series of whitish and lead-     Piscataway, near the Potomac
              coloured friable limestones,      River, Maryland ; Upper
              and ferruginous and siliceous     Marlboro'.Maryland; Vance's
              sands, all abounding in ex        Ferry, South Carolina; and
              tinct species of shells and      across to Three Runs, on Sa

              zoophytes.                       vanna River ; Shell Bluff,
            Occurs also very frequently in     Savanna River ; Silver Bluff

              the form of a fine-grained       onthesanie,inBuikisCounty,
              siliceous rock, abounding in      Georgia; near Milledgeville
              casts and impressions of         in Georgia; Early County,
              shells. This is used as a burr    Georgia; Wilcox County,
                                                Alabama ; Clayborne, Ala
              stone in Georgia.                bama; St. Stephens, Alaba
                                                ma ; Munroe, on the Washi-
                                               taw River, west of the Mis
                                               sissippi. All these localities
                                               are on the authority of Mr.
                                               Conrad, who has either seen

                                               them in person or received

                                               eocene fossils from them.

It is necessary, perhaps, that I here explain in what sense I
                           nomenclature of Lyell. I wish           it to be
employ the  very   useful                                          and Eo
understood  that           the terms Pleiocene, Meiocene,
                  I apply
cene to our beds, not under the idea of any strict identity, either
in geological character or age, being discoverable between them
and the strata which have severally received those names in
Europe, but to express simply their own comparative chrono
logical relations, and their connexion with the recent organic
races of this country, independently of any direct comparison

with formations elsewhere. It is possible, indeed it is very
likely, that some of our formations, our newer pleiocene, for ex
ample, may exhibit in their organic remains nearly the same
proportion of recent species as certain beds   in
differ materially from the latter in positive       E; ufroorpeI,   and yet
                                               age                 conceive
it is a fair inference, that throughout a certain period of more or
less duration, the relations of species, from general physical
causes, must be more stable in some regions than in others, va
rying less rapidly, for instance, upon the tranquil shores of the
United   If IStates, than near the often agitated coasts of volcanic
Sicily.
              this view be granted, and think it should not be
overlooked in attempting to establish identity of period in di
stant strata, the tertiary formations of America will furnish an
instance in illustration of the importance of the caution recently
given us by Mr. Murchison and other eminent geologists of
England, that we make out a classification of our rocks from
their own relations, instead of ranking them, as we have hi
therto invariably done, merely as members of European types.
       REPORT ON THE GEOLOGY OF NORTH AMERICA.                                                                           33

More extended researches in our recent conchology will
doubtless inform us, from time to time, of the existence in the
living state of some shells which we now regard as occurring
only in the extinct and fossil state ; and the natural tendency
will therefore be, to lessen the apparent antiquity of each for

mation. It is this prospect of being compelled to modify our
arrangement of the tertiary beds, as the researches multiply,
that has made me hesitate to fasten upon all of them the terms
Iof the new nomenclature, which they might otherwise claim.

   propose, therefore, to designate them for the present by the
ca' onmdnivd'deolnelideentretrttseiyarntrioyan'ryyfm'osrfotrohtfeh'enoeledwoecerernptelee.rioticTaehrnyee'  for the newer pleiocene,
                                                                                                             and meiocene together,
                                                                                                            newer pleiocene and the
eocene certainly exist in well-pronounced characters, and there
will be little or no necessity, now at least, to employ their pro
posed synonyms ; but the case is very different with the less de
       formations of an intermediate age,                                                                   and I shall
fmed   essential assistance to employ, for                                                                               ttehremref'ormeidfdinled
                                                                                                            these, the
it of
tertiary'. American geologists will
the middle tertiary beds, of which   Ibe careful not                                                                     to confound
                                        am speaking,                                                                       with those
which Mr. Conrad has designated by the same name, and which
are clearly of eocene date, as both that gentleman (in his re
searches among the fossils of Clairborne, Alabama,) and Mr.
Lea have
    Newer  been prompt to show.     County,                                                                 Maryland. -- In the

           Pleiocene of St. Mary's
tertiary mass now before us, the number of well-characterized
shells is such as to enable us to examine their relations to the

species now living in the neighbouring ocean, or peculiar to
other formations. For our knowledge of the formation at the
mouth of the Potomac, we are indebted exclusively to the re
searches of Mr. Conrad ; and it is mainly from his descriptions
and on other information which he   has been kind
                                     the following                                                                       enough to im
part, that I am enabled to present                                                                                        brief account
of the deposit. He justly pointed out its very modern character,
by showing the identity of nearly all the species with the shells
at present living on our coast. Mr. Conrad thus describes the
formation :
"About three miles north of the low sandy point which forms
the southern extremity of the peninsula, the bank of the Poto
mac rises to an elevation of about fifteen feet at its highest
point : the fossils are visible in this bank to the extent of a
quarter of a mile. The inferior stratum is a lead-coloured clay,
containing vast numbers of the Mactra lateralis of Say, which
in many instances appear in nearly vertical veins, as though
they had fallen into fissures. The Pholas costata is also nu-

1834.        d
34 FOURTH REPORT -- 1834.

merous, and each individual remains in the position in which the
living shell is usually buried in the sand or mud ; that is, ver
tical, with the short side pointing downwards : they are so fra
gile, that they can rarely be taken entire from the matrix. Upon
this stratum of clay, in a matrix of sand, lies a bed of the Ostrea

virginica, in some places a foot in thickness. It is nearly
horizontal ; in some places at least eight or ten, and in others
not more than four feet above high-water mark. The diluvium
above exhibits a vein of small pebbles, traversing it horizontally,
and at a distance resembling a stratum of shells. Not only are
the fossils of this locality the same as existing species, but in
some instances they retain their colour ; a circumstance com
mon to the later deposits of Europe. The distance from the
nearest point on the Atlantic Ocean is about forty-five miles,

but it is at least one hundred by the course of the bay. It will
be observed, that nearly all the shells are known to inhabit
the shores of the United States at the present time : those of
them which are now only known in the fossil state are extremely
rare, or of minute dimensions."
Mr. Conrad also mentions to me as an indication of the great
tranquillity which has attended the deposition of these beds, that
the underlying blue clay is everywhere penetrated by the Pholas
costata in its natural position. The upper bed contains Ostrea
            with Mytilus, a   fragile shell, in a very entire and
associated                    not a little curious that the same   un
disturbed   condition. It is                                       fel
lowship of Ostrea virginica and Mytilus recnrvujt (hamatus,
Say,) should subsist at the present day in the Gulf of Mexico,
though the latter shell has never been seen in the more northern
latitudes of our coast. The Rangia, likewise a gulf shell exclu
sively, occurs also in the same newer pleiocene, so that we seem
to have indications of a higher temperature even so late as the
newest of our tertiary periods. Several of the species, however,
in the foregoing table were long supposed by our conchologists
to inhabit, in the present day, only the most southern portions
of our Atlantic coast, but the same have been since found as far
north as the shores of Rhode Island.

The bed of Ostrea virginica reposing upon the fossiliferous
blue clay, has already been referred to a somewhat newer date,
from the circumstance of its entire identity with the very recent
beds of fossil oyster seen on the margins of some of our rivers
and bays, in circumstances which prove them to be among the
very newest of all the upheaved accumulations of the waters of
the coast. Considering these upper remains, therefore, as not
quite contemporary with the subjacent and more diversified
assemblage of marine shells, we may regard the latter as having
       REPORT ON THE OEOLOGY OP NORTH AMERICA.                      35

colonized a tract in the bed of the ocean, much deeper than
would be compatible with the known habits of the oyster, until
the occurrence of an alteration of the level, from what may be
termed deep sea, to a shallow estuary ; the clay enveloping
the lower shells, indicating perhaps the ooze peculiar to the

one, the oysters above lying in a sediment equally characteristic
of the other, namely, sand. The supposed change of circum
stances would be just such as would tend to banish the pelagian
shells and to introduce in abundance a race like the oyster, de

lighting in protected coves and shoals. A second elevation of
the region must have taken place to bring both beds to their

present position above high tide, and to expose them to receive
their covering of diluvial pebbles, which is said to be thick and
well characterized. The deposit at the mouth of the Potomac
is the only one of its exact period at present discovered, though,
from the appearance of successive small upheaves at various
times, along nearly the whole Atlantic plain, it seems reason
able to look for the occurrence of beds of nearly similar age in
other sections of the coast;  if,  indeed, we have not already

found one at Charleston, and on the adjoining coast of South2
Carolina.
                           the older Pleiocene and Meiocene periods.--
Formations
I
             a
                       of
These deposits which, before the appearance of Mr. Lyell's no
menclature, went under the name of the 'upper marine' formation,
from supposed identity with the beds of that name in certain
basins in Europe, constitute by far the most extensively distri
buted portion of our tertiary beds yet explored. There even,
                                                     a

                                                            it is
                                                                is
think, reason to believe that we have deposits of wide range
which may be separately classed, some in the meiocene, others
in the older pleiocene period, though in many cases
                                                                    not

possible, from the present limited catalogue of their fossils, al
ways to infer with precision their exact comparative age on this
                                                             :

                                                                  I
account, and also from the circumstance that their mutal geo

graphical connexion has never been yet properly examined,
prefer, for temporary convenience, to treat them for the present
under one head, as the deposits of one great middle tertiary
group. These are clearly separated by well-marked and per
                                         a

haps wide interval from the more recent newer pleiocene on

the one hand, and the more ancient eocene on the other, though
            some ground to believe that  they will be found   to blend
there  each other by various shadesis    of approximation,   -- unless,
into

indeed, future  researches may point out    amItong  them an addi
tional number   of distinguishing fossils.  it       very probable,
                                                is
from present indications, that when we have investigated the

deposits of these two periods we shall find requisite to inter

                                               d
36 FOURTH REPORT -- 1834.

calate several subordinate new periods between the principal
ones already recognised, fulfilling the plan and the predictions
of Mr. Lyell.
   The proportion of species in the tables which are to follow

Iwill show how far these suggestions are pertinent. In the

mean while shall content myself with establishing, from proper
evidence, the existence of both the older pleiocene and meiocene
in their broader limitations, being assisted by the tables and
notes of Mr. Conrad, whose researches in this field, in Maryland
and Virginia, constitute the chief of what we at present know
touching these formations, and whose expression of concur
rence in some of my present general views gives me much

satisfaction.                                                                     Meiocene For

maGteioongsr.a--phCicoaml mRaenngceingofmthoestopldreorbaPblelyio,caesnIehaanved  already stated,
in the southern extremity of New Jersey, these tertiary beds
show themselves in a wide and, at present, undefined belt con
tinuously through Delaware, Maryland, Virginia, and North
Carolina, in the south of which State, and in part of the adjoin
ing State of South Carolina, they only occur in interrupted

patches, thinning out and disappearing altogether after reaching
theNSeawnteJeersreivye.r--inHaSrodultyh  Carolina.
                                         anything   is  known       of  these formations

in this State,  bperoyocnudredwhbaytMmra.yCobenraindf,ernreeadr  from a           small   collec
tion of shells                                                   Stone            Creek,   Cum

berland county, and by a few specimens of similar fossils received
from Cape May and other places along the same shore of the
Delaware Bay. In mineral character the middle tertiary beds of
New Jersey appear, from the slight examination which they have
had, to consist of yellowish siliceous sands, resting upon a lead-
coloured clay, the chief receptacle of the fossil shells above enu
merated. There is reason to believe that tertiary beds are nearly
continuous from Salem to Cape May and Great Egg Harbour, a
tract of at least forty miles long by ten or fifteen broad. How
much more of the peninsula of New Jersey may consist of ter

tiary beds, we cannot say, as the surface is deeply covered by
diluvium and sea sand.

   Delaware. -- In this State tertiary formations of the same
period certainly exist, though it is a district which has received
no attention. At Cantwell's Bridge, fossils have been procured,
which Mr. Conrad is inclined to refer to the middle tertiary,
though we consider the locality to require further investigation

befMoraerywlae ncda.n--prFoonromunacteionesv,en    thus far.  part  at least of which
                                                 the major
are fairly of the middle tertiary age, occupy nearly the whole
REPORT ON THE GEOLOGY OF NORTH AMERICA.                             37

surface of both shores of the Chesapeake Bay south of an irre
gular line drawn from Kent county to a few miles below the
city of Washington on the Potomac. Over this great area,
which is nearly one hundred miles long from north to south,
and more than fifty wide, the tertiary beds are seen under
nearly uniform characters in almost every spot where the rivers
or ravines have exposed sections. The upper layers are usually
arenaceous and repose very generally upon a more argillaceous
stratum, often developed as an almost pure lead-coloured clay.
Both deposits are highly fossiliferous, and when seen on the
side of a river, present, sometimes, little else than a bank of
shells and zoophytes, often in a state of fine preservation.

    Some of the most conspicuous localities are on the Chester
river, which is about the northern boundary; also at Easton
and Cambridge, all on the eastern shore; and again on the
western shore of the bay, especially in St. Mary's county,
where many of the fossils of this formation were first discovered.

Mr. Conrad describes the fossiliferous mass as extending in the
precipitous banks of St. Mary's river nearly a mile. This bed,
he says, contains many extinct species; it furnishes a large

number of genera, with very few species of each, while the in
dividuals are in the greatest abundance. The bank is elevated
perhaps thirty feet in the highest point above tide, and there
the stratum of shells rises fifteen feet above the river. Siliceous
masses with imbedded shells are numerous, and are used for the

foundations of buildings. The inferior stratum of these banks
is clay, which appears to contain the same species of shells as
the sand above it. On the eastern shore of Maryland in the
banks of the Choptank, not far from Easton, Mr. Conrad ob

served the following section.

1. Diluvium.                                                        peeti

2. Sand, with Pecten Mudisouius and Balanus Proteut almost exclu

         sively                                                     2
                                                                    7
...3. Cytherea marylandica, Corbula and Pecten Madisonius, in sand

4. Cytherea marylandica in vast numbers, in sand, with Crassatella

marylandica in abundance                                            4

5. Blue clay, with Perna maxiUata.

   Virginia. --Tertiary deposits, apparently of the same middle
group, occupy, it is believed, nearly all Virginia east of a few

miles below the primary boundary, and are seen to put on all
the varieties observable in Maryland, being continuous and
identical with those just described as belonging to that region.
The average breadth of the deposit in Virginia may be stated,
therefore, at about sixty miles, and its length the whole extent
of the State, from the Potomac south to the State of North Ca
38 FOURTH REPORT -- 1834.

rolina. Throughout this great area it has scarcely received any
geological examination, our only accurate information being
that procured by Conrad in his researches among the fossils in
Suffolk county, and again at York town, and some recent exa
minations made by my brother, W. B. Rogers, along the James
and York rivers and the peninsula embraced between them. The
general distribution of the formation, however, is well known,
because the fossiliferous parts of the deposit are sought over
nearly the whole region for the fertilizing action of their carbo
nate of lime and shells upon the soil, in consequence of which
Ithe whole deposit bears the name of marl in all the States in
which it occurs.  select for description the beds upon the
James and York rivers, as being best known to us, and probably
characteristic of the deposit generally.
On the James river, along the cliffs in the counties of James
city and Warwick, the fossiliferous strata are
My brother, Professor Rogers, thus describes the  fslitonrcaeatlayliteywxph: oi"csheBdy.I
far the most striking exhibition of the tertiary
have yet seen is on the bank of James river, from a little above

King's Mill upwards. The bank has an average height of sixty
feet, and from the water-line to a few feet from the top is occu
pied by shells : in some places huge blocks of the deposit have
fallen down, exposing the specimens in a very perfect state. The
mass in which the shells are imbedded is usually a stratum of
sand, sometimes covered by, but mostly resting upon, blueish
clay, which also includes the same fossils. The sand, as in
Maryland, is mostly yellowish, though it has often a green hue,

like that called turtia by the French. It is sometimes indu
rated into a rough concreted mass by the cementing action of the
carbonate of lime of the shells. An interesting fact is, the oc
currence among it of the green grains so characteristic of the
secondary greensand of New Jersey."
   My brother states, that after examining at least thirty distinct
localities, he has found the greensand an invariable ingredient
in all, some having as much as thirty per cent, of this mineral.

At Burwell's Mill the stratum over the shells for five feet is an
olive and red clay, containing from thirty to forty per cent, of
the greensand, from which it receives its colour, olive or green,
precisely as certain beds of similar clay in the secondary tracts
of New Jersey acquire the same tint.

   A section upon the side of a mill-pond recently drained near
Williamsburgh, about midway between the York and James
rivers, affords the following arrangement: 1st, reddish sand,

about eight feet, containing near the bottom a stratum two feet
thick of shells, chiefly Venus and Area idonea, very large;
REPORT ON THE GEOLOGY OF NORTH AMERICA.                                        39

2nd, blue marl, full of Venus, twelve inches j 3rd, blueish

green marl, four feet thick, having at the bottom a mass of
Pecten, and below this a crowded layer of Perna, all perfectly
horizontal.
On the York river the stratification, though it does not ex
hibit so lofty a precipice filled with shells as before described
on the James river, presents the clay strata very beautifully.
Immediately overlying the shells is a continuous bed of clay,
                     in some  psmlacoeosthfoarsmimngasoanvrye.rticaItl  wall,  ten or
many miles    long,  and as                                             is of  a blue
fifteen feet  high,

colour, and divided by thin layers of sand, perfectly horizontal,
into portions about eight to twelve inches thick, so that the ap
pearance is very much like that of a wall. The incumbent clay
in some places thins out, and changes colour to a reddish brown,
which makes it scarcely distinguishable from the diluvium above;
sometimes it is subdivided into two strata, separated by sand
and gravel. This clay is a very common deposit throughout

the tertiary marl region, sometimes beneath, sometimes above

the shells, and often both below and above, and also containing
shells. In appearance it resembles a clay which is a member of
the secondary greensand formation of New Jersey. From York
town, six miles up the river, is the following interesting section :
1st. Near York, a curious rock, containing shells, often in minute
fragments, being somewhat like masses of the crag of England.
Here the strata are not horizontal ; but in a ravine below the

town they dip on opposite sides towards the ravine at an angle
of more than thirty degrees. This shell rock is an indurated cal
careous sand, formed of shells, not partially decomposed, but

comminuted by attrition. It had obviously been subjected, as
Mr. Conrad observes, to a violent action of the waters at a pe

riod anterior to the tranquil deposition of the perfect shells it
contains. 2nd. From York town to about three miles up the
river, the principal stratum consists of shells, overlaid by the
above-mentioned blue clay, separated near its western end into

two strata. 3rd. At some distance higher up, the shell rock
again takes the place both of the stratum of shells and the over
lying blue clay. 4th. Beyond this again, and still on the same
level, the blue clay is seen resting once more on the unbroken
shells. The appearance of the wall of clay in these places is

very curious j it is as smooth as if cut with a spade, and re
sembles the wall of a fortress. On the Nansemond river, in the

immediate neighbourhood of Suffolk, very nearly the same series
of strata is seen as described upon the York and James rivers.
Yellowish sand reposes most generally upon the blue clay, both
beds containing a profusion of shells, and rising from the rivet
40 FOURTH REPORT 1834.

some fifteen or twenty feet. This would appear to be the pre
vailing order, not only in all the portion of Virginia here de
scribed but throughout the middle tertiary region, from whatever
part of it accounts have reached us, whether from Maryland or
North Carolina.
   North Carolina. --The middle tertiary beds are prolonged
through this State in a belt, the east and west boundaries of
which are not at present ascertained, but which appears to con
tract both in width and thickness as we proceed south.
Professor Mitchell, of the University of North Carolina, men
tions it as ranging through the following localities : Near the
northern boundary of the State it appears on the Meherrin river
at Murfreesboro' ; further south, on the banks of the Roanoke at

Scotland Neck ; again on the banks of Fishing Creek near In
field, in Halifax county, and on the banks of the Tar river near
Greenville, in Pitt county, and also a little below the falls of the
Tar ; in several places in                                            banks of the
Neuse, below Newbern.       CIrtavaepnpecaorsunatyls,o  and   on the  county, and
                                                         in  Duplin

on the banks of Cape Fear river, at Walker's Bluffs, and eight
miles above Elizabeth. Walker's Bluff, like all the other con

siderable bluffs in this State, is on the western or right bank of

the river as we descend. It extends about three fourths of a mile

along the river, and then recedes and loses itself in the general
plain of the country above. The stratum of shells is from five
to twelve or fifteen feet in thickness, and its upper surface
seventy-five feet above the mean level of the water in the river.
The tide flows a few miles above it. Beneath the shells are al
ternating and irregular strata of sand and blue tenacious clay,
the latter predominating. Above the shells the surface rises as
we recede from the river, until it gains a height of about one
hundred feet, which is not far from the average level of the sur

face of this portion of the State above the sea. In Duplin and
many parts of the south-eastern corner of the State, as along
Cape Fear River, near Wilmington, this formation rests imme
                          zoophitic limestone of our southern cre
diately  upon the  upper  here in fact a mere capping, having a
taceous   rocks.
                   It is
thickness of not more than a very few feet, but still abounding
in characteristic fossils.

hinerSaeolluutteshiromneCdtaoromtlhiniedads.loe--uthtMeerrrnt.iaCeryoxnt:rream"ditThyhaesoftfhotehremfsoealtlobioewndins,ghwasohbicsnehortvIabhtieaoevnne
CfMCoaaiusrrnsooidllsiinnssiaapo;,puttih.hnoouorgfIhdVnoIaevneIecxrepbslmeolriyeFesvedeerlrftyhi,otebocoseconcruvunterhstderyiniSbt aeGnitnwteeeoeaerngnyiraiCv,pheaAarr,rltalebionsaftmoSSnaoo,auunttohdhr
REPORT ON THE GEOLOGY OF NORTH AMERICA.               41

the Eutaw springs, which is wholly secondary. The deposit
therefore at Vances Ferry is probably very limited in extent,

and extremely superficial, capping the cretaceous rocks in the

sam"eThmeanpnleeirocaesneat  Wilmington.      on the  Santee river, near the
                             probably occurs
junction of the Congaree and Wateree rivers, as Mr. Say de
scribes two species of Area, evidently pleiocene fossils, from a
locality near the junction of these two rivers."
Such, then, are the principal localities at present known of the
middle tertiary formations in their apparently continuous range
from the Delaware to the Santee, over a tract perhaps eighty
miles in breadth from the coast. In external character, mineral

contents, and organic remains, the sedimentary deposits over
this great tract exhibit a most marked uniformity, and were it
not that the principle has been furnished us whereby, through
a comparison of recent and extinct fossils, the relative antiquity
of each locality may be determined, at least approximately, we
should, without a doubt, regard the whole tract as one simul

taneous formation. I look confidently, however, for both older
pleiocene and meiocene proportions among the species, and shall

not be surprised if we discover, ultimately, almost every inter
mediate ratio. For this intimate association of the two periods
there would seem to exist a natural and obvious cause. The

whole of our tertiary, and even cretaceous groups, are all de
posits effected under the same general physical exposures, all
accumulations upon the same coast, bearing traces of no con
vulsions, and therefore interrupted by no hiatus. These for
mations occupy one extensive plain, where the stratification is
amazingly horizontal, which is crossed by no ridges, and there

fore subdivided into no basins ; so that the whole may be con
sidered as having resulted from a set of causes continuing in ac

tivity throughout a long period.
Having procured a table of all our middle tertiary fossils at
present known to us, and with it an enumeration of the species,
recent and extinct, from the more important localities which

have been explored, I am enabled to attempt a determination of
the relative age of these beds, from the numerical relations of

the shells.

The total number of species from our tertiary beds, excluding
the eocene and the newer pleiocene, is about 195 ; of these, nearly
forty are known as recent shells, inhabiting principally our own
coast. This presents us with a proportion of rather more than
twenty-one in one hundred, or about the ratio of the living spe
cies in the meiocene formations of Europe.
From New Jersey to North Carolina there is every reason to

                                                                              <
42 FOURTH REPORT-- 1834.

suppose that the greater part of the tertiary tract will furnish
even a less proportion of living species than one fifth, while the
tertiary beds of North Carolina have contributed a group of shells
of which nearly two thirds are of recent species. The latter
territory would therefore most probably come within the plei-
ocene epoch, while             former districts are pretty clearly of
American meiocene.        the  is an interesting fact, however, that              the
                                                                                  our
                           It
meiocene shells, if we can at present call them such, resemble
most the species of the European older pleiocene.
The following brief details embrace the results of a compari
son of the respective fossils of each principal locality of our
middle                                       present data.
   New  sJterartsae,ya. --ccoTrodinbgegtino   with the locality     in  New  Jersey,  it

will be shown that we can at present enumerate only thirteen
species whose relations are established. Of these, twelve are
extinct, and one is supposed to be recent.
   What is curious in this small list is its containing so small a

proportion of species recent on our coast, though the deposit
evidently does not belong to our older tertiary, or eocene. The
species are either the same as those found in the meiocene or

middle tertiary of Maryland, or where they differ they are mostly

analogous. It is certainly not fair to reason from such very
limited data as are furnished us by this small list of fossils. New
additions to our present rather small catalogue of recent shells
temhxaetyinbcemtdas: teaornfitaNilcleyipwaletJsiensregsnetyhthisef,ropImrofepteholertthieoeoncleeosnsfethhpeeesriistoapdet.icoinesIinrcesogenapsraiddreeadrtingas
                                                      a

                                                                                            it,
nevertheless, possible that some of the middle tertiary forma
tions of this country may ultimately exhibit very nearly eocene
proportions, while the character of majority of their fossils
maSyt.mMaarkryt'hse, mMatorybleandde.ci--deTdlhyismpelaiocecehnaes  in their relations.
                                                                    furnished about fifty-
six species, thirteen of which are recent on our coast, while the

remaining forty-three are extinct. The proportion of recent

species here 23 per       c--enTth. e

   Muston, Maryland.
is                                           deposit  upon          the Choptank  river,
                      is
near Easton, has presented, so far, about twenty-six species,
twenty-two of them extinct and four living. Among the extinct
species, the Perna maxillata conspicuous, as always
                                             a

                                                   is
                                                                              it
                                                                                                  is
wherever the deposit shows large preponderance of species no
longer living. The recent species here are about 16 per cent,
of the whole, placing the bed, like that of New Jersey, perhaps
in Sthueffomleki,oVceirngeinpiear.i--od.Here the total number of species procured
forty-five, about thirty-five of which are extinct and ten re
REPORT ON THE GEOLOGY OF NORTH AMERICA.                   43

cent on our coast. It is evident that here the proportion of

living species is greater than in most of the preceding localities,
the proportion being something like 22 per cent. Should this
ratio not materially vary with new discoveries, the deposit must
be ranked, like the preceding, with the meiocene period, notwith
standing that its shells are rather the analogues of the European

older pleiocene.     --  About  forty-four  species  are  known from
    York, Virginia.
this spot, thirty-six of which are extinct, and the remainder
recent. The living species here are nearly 18 per cent. of the
whole, which differs but little from the ratio at Suffolk.
   Smith field, on the James River, Virginia. -- The deposit at
this place has furnished sixty-four species, fifty-five extinct and
nine recent. This affords a proportion of about 14 per cent.,
which, if it be taken as the true expression of the relations of
the species, would place the locality in the meiocene, and per
haps in an older division of the period than would belong to some
of the preceding deposits.
   North Carolina. -- Though the fossil shells of this State have

been very little examined, the present list indicates a group of

beds decidedly more modern than any detailed above. Of thirty-

seven species at present known, twenty-four, or nearly two
thirds, are recent: should this proportion remain nearly the

same, after the catalogue has been duly augmented, we must
rank some at least of the interesting deposits of North Carolina
in our older pleiocene, placing them most probably late in the

period. A certain modern aspect about these shells lends coun

tenIanschealltotetrhmisinaptreedtichtiisona.ccount of our middle tertiary beds with

a list of the fossil shells of this period, which are common to

the strata of both America and Europe. They are :

      1. Lucina divaricata, Lam.
     2. CerithiuDi raelanioideum, Sotv. (In the London clay.)
      3. Ostrea virginiana, Gmel.
     4. Dentalium dcntalis, Lmn. (D. alternatum, Say.)
      5. Venus Ttistica ? Sotv. (Isocardia fraterna, Say.)
     6. Pectunculus subovatus, Say. (P. variabilis, Sow.)

Older Tertiary, or Eocene. -- The first notice of eocene de
posits occurring in the United States, as characterized by organic
remains, was published by Mr. Conrad in the Journal
Academy of Natural Sciences in 1830, from observations    of the

                                                          he had
made in the vicinity of Fort Washington, in Maryland : he also
stated that such beds occurred at Vances Ferry, on the Santee
river, where it is since ascertained that they are covered by a su
perficial deposit of the fossils of the pleiocene period. One cha
racteristic fossil of the eocene of Claiborne (Ostrea sellceformis,
44 FOURTH REPORT 1834.

Conrad,) occurs at the Eutaw springs and at Nelson's Ferry on
the Santee river, but it lies in a white limestone, associated with

very different fossils from those which accompany this Ostrea at
Claiborne. This limestone is doubtless analogous to that on

which the tertiary of Claiborne is based, but its true character
is given by Dr. Morton, in his Synopsis, now in the press. Eocene
deposits commence in Maryland, and extending in a south-west
direction, crop out at intervals in the States of Virginia (?) and
North and South Carolina, and are always of very inconsiderable
breadth. They meet the Savannah river at Shell Bluff, fifteen
miles below Augusta, and appear at Silver Bluff and other
places, occupying a space of about forty miles, following the
course of the   "sasmeveenrtiyvefre.et                Mr. Vanuxem, Shell
Bluff is about                          According to
                                        high, formed  of various beds of im

pure carbonate of lime, of comminuted shells, and having at its
upper part the Ostrea gigantea ? in a bed nearly six feet in
thickness."
The eocene formation appears on the Oconee, below Mill-
edgeville, judging from a few fossils which have been sent from
that vicinity. The matrix is calcareous, whitish, and very fri
able. We know nothing of its appearance on Ocmulgee and
Flint rivers, but it has been observed in various parts of Early
county, and it occurs at Fort Gaines on the Chattahooche, where
it constitutes a bluff from 150 to 200 feet in height, which has
a close resemblance to that at Claiborne. Its extent on the

river is about one mile.

   In Georgia it is common to find the fossiliferous beds of the
eocene developed as a pure siliceous rock or Buhr stone. The
calcareous and other matter originally in the rock has all disap
peared and been replaced by silica, preserving, however, the
casts of shells so perfectly that they may often be readily recog

nised.
The eocene next appears in Wilcox county, Alabama, in the
state of a hard dark-coloured sandstone, containing the charac
teristic shells, which are not mineralized at all, but are chalky
and imperfect. This formation only extends eight or nine miles
along the Alabama river. Claiborne Bluff is about one mile in
length : a similar bluff, of equal extent, occurs three miles below,
and about three or four miles south of this the deposit termi
nates in a bluff of less elevation. Here the upper bed is charac

terized by Scutella Lyelli (Conrad), the stratum being about
three feet in thickness, with a matrix of angular quartzose sand,
tinged by oxide of iron. Nearly the whole country in the vi
cinity of Claiborne is secondary, the eocene having been traced
only about one mile east of the village, in the banks of a small
       REPORT ON THE GEOLOGY OF NORTH AMERICA.                 45

creek. The ridge dividing the waters of the Alabama and Tom-
beckbe, also secondary, is composed of cretaceous limestone, full
of Nummulites Mantelli (Morton). St. Stephens, on the
Tombeckbe, is situated on a bluff of the same, about one hundred

feet in height ; but the eocene appears a short distance north of
it, separated from the secondary by a strip of alluvial soil. Here,
however, the two upper strata only are visible, the superior bed

of limestone being but a few feet in thickness, whilst at Clai
borne the corresponding one is about forty-five feet thick. The
arenaceous stratum is precisely similar to that of Claiborne, but
the fossils are not so well preserved, and are chalky and friable.
We know of no locality west of this, in Alabama or Mississippi,
where the eocene formation occurs ; but on the Washita river,
near the town of Monroe, it is associated with the strata of the
cretaceous group, as Mr. Conrad ascertained by examination of
some fossils sent to the American Philosophical Society by Judge
Bry. The most abundant fossil beds of the eocene at this place
appears to be Corbula oniscus (Conrad), a shell very common
in the arenaceous strata at Claiborne.
No other information has been received of any other localities
of eocene deposits, but doubtless many will be discovered when
geology is pursued in a more systematic manner.
   The following diagram will explain the order of succession
and the thickness of the strata in Claiborne Bluff, and to these
are added the two members of the cretaceous group, which oc
cur in the vicinity. Those species are indicated which occur in
both formations ; they are highly interesting, as they furnish in
dubitable evidence of the antiquity of these tertiary beds. Among
more than two hundred species of shells at Claiborne, there is
not one which is identical with a fossil of the pleiocene of this
county ; one only is even an analogue : not one can be referred
to any recent species, much less to a native of the coast of the
United States. One             Lutraria
analogue to a species  only,              papyrea (Conrad),    is the
                       of our  coast, L.  canaliculata (Say),   in its

general appearance, but is very remarkable in having the um-
bones turned in an opposite direction to those of the latter spe

cies.
46 FOURTH REPORT -- 1834.

Diagram representing the Strata composing the Bluff' at Claiborne.

                                   Thickness.            Observations                 Range oi certain Spe
                                                                                                  cies.

   1. Diluvium.                    20 feet.    Contains casts of a few species        Pecten calvatus.
                                   45 feet.      occurring in the next stratum.       Scutella Lyelli.
   2. Whitish friable                            The most characteristic fossil is
         limestone.                              Scutella Lyelli. Some species
                                                 of Anthophyllum also occur.

   3. Ferruginous si               6 feet.     This portion is indurated, and the
         liceous sand.                           fossils occur in casts.

                                   14 feet.    Very friable, and contains about       Cardita planicosta.
                                                 70 genera and 200 species of
                                                 shells : among them are Cardita
                                                 plamcostatCorbis lamellosa, Py-
                                                 ramideUa tcrebellata, of the cal-

                                                 caire grossier; apparently no
                                                 species now existing, and none
                                                 identical with those of the plei-
                                                 ocene of Maryland.

§&? 4. Sand with a cal             3 feet.     Concretion of Oilrea sellajormis.
                  careous cement.
5
   5. Soft lead -colour                        Contain O. sellirfnrmis in abun        Plagiostoma dumo-
        ed limestone.              70 feet.      dance, but other fossils are rare ;     sum. (Rare.)
                                                 some casts of univalves, a Pec-
                                               ten,Anlhophyllum, Flustra, Tur-
                                               binolia, Sec. Hardly a trace of

                                               those species of the strata Nos.

                                               3 and 6.

   Friable lead-                   Thickness   Contains the same class of shells      Cardita planicosta.
                                   unknown.
   coloured lime                                 as stratum No. 3 ; the most cha

   stone. Level                                  racteristic fossil Cardita plani
   of the river.                                 costa, a shell very characteristic
                                                 of the eocene.

   7. Very white fri Thickness                 Contains many casts of shells pe       Scutella Lyelli.
        able limestone. unknown.                 culiar to itself, and no other fos   Plagiostoma dumo-
                                                 sil of the next deposit than
                                                 Gryphaa Vomer. Characteristic            sum.
                                                 fossil, Nummulites Mantelli          Pecten calvatus.
                                                                                      Ostrea sellteformis.
                                                 (Morton).                            Ostrea panda.
                                                                                      Ostrea cretacea,

                                                                                      Gryphaa Vomer.

   Biueish lime                    300 feet.   The characteristic fossil is Ejto-     Ostrea panda.
   stone, alternat                               gyra costata.                        Ostrea cretacea.
   ing with friable                                                                   Grypluea Vomer.
   limestone, sili

   ceous sand, and
   marl.
REPORT ON THE GEOLOGY OP NORTH AMERICA.  47

  " If the deposit at Fort Washington, Maryland, be correctly

referred to the eocene, it must be a newer member of that for

mation than Claiborne Bluff, in as much as the species are gene
rally distinct, and no secondary fossil occurs amongst them.
The only recent species is Venus mercenaria (Lam.) ; and one
of the most characteristic shells, Ontrea comjyressirostra (Say),
is found in the middle tertiary on James river, Virginia. Per
haps the deposit at Fort Washington will be found to class itself
in a more recent period than the eocene."

   The total number of our eocene shells is about 210, nearly
all the species being from a single locality, namely, Claiborne,
Alabama. Other deposits, as that of St. Stephens on the Tom-
beckbe, present a large collection of species also, but they have
been found not to differ from the species at Claiborne.

   It is remarkable enough that the older tertiary or eocene strata

of Alabama contain a profusion of specimens of four secondary
species, and yet possess not one species common with our
meiocene or middle tertiary. This is just the reverse of what
occurs among the corresponding formations in Europe, the eo
cene and meiocene coalescing there by 42 common species
in 1238 of eocene, and the cretaceous and eocene strata having
nothing identical between them. From this, and the interesting
fact that our formations of this period contain not a single known
recent species, it seems pretty evident that our southern tertiary
 strata assume an earlier place in the American eocene period
 than the beds of the Paris basin occupy in the eocene period of

 Europe.

   A fact equally as curious and unexpected is, that out of about

 210 eocene fossils from Alabama, not more than six are disco
 vered to be common to the same period in Europe. They are,

               1. Corbis lamellosa, Lam.
               2. Cardita planicosta, Blainv.
               3. Bnlimus terebcllatus, Lam.

         --4. Solarium patuhim, Lam. (S. scrobiculatum, Conrad.)

               5. . canaliculahim, Lam. (S. ornatum, Lea.)
               6. Fistulana elongata, Desk.

   It is not improbable, however, for reasons formerly advanced,

that the number of identical species will augment as our strata

and coast are more explored.
    Several other species show a resemblance to fossils of the

eocene beds of the Paris and London basins, though they are
obviously specifically different.

    Connected with the foregoing comparisons among our tertiary
shells ought to be an inquiry into the number of shells which
frequent our coast, and their relations to the living species of
48 FOURTH REPORT-- 1834.

European seas. I have accordingly procured from my friend
Mr.   Conrad a catalogue         of
     coast from Louisiana         to  thMeaiknneo.wnThmisarinI eshsohuelllds  inhabiting
our                                                                           have been

glad to insert, as such a list has not before been made, but
for the length to which this Report has grown under my hands.

It is important to know, however, that the whole number of
marine species, excluding those of the West Indies and the
southern region of the Gulf of Mexico, does not much exceed

200. It is possible that by dredging our coast a large accession

to the list might accrue, yet it is apparent that the North Ame
rican border of the Atlantic is not prolific in Testacea ; and the

same seems to have been equally the fact during the several

tertiary periods.

   Mr. Conrad and Dr. Morton have arranged with care the fol
lowing useful table of recent species common to the European
and American coasts of the Atlantic.

       1. Purpura Lapillus.           1 7. Thracia convexa.
      2. Buccimim undatum.
      3. Natica canrena.              18. Solecurtus fragilis.
      4. I'lisus islandicus.          19. Glycimerix siliqua.
      6. Cyprina islandica.           20. Cnrdium islandicum.

       6. Saxicava rugosa.            21. groenlandicum.
      7. Lucinn divaricata.           22. Tellina punicea.
                                      23. Venus mercenaria.
      8. Pholas crispata.
                                      24. Pecten ialandicus.
       9. costata.
                                      25. Strigilla carnaria.
     10. Anomia Ephippium.            26. Balamis ovularis.
     11. .Solon ensis.
     12. Mya arenaria.                27. elongatus.
                                      28. Anatifera dentata.
     13. Mytilus edulis.              29. vitrea.
     14. Modiola papnana.
     15. Mactra deaurata.             30. leevis.
     16. Spirorbis nautiloides.
                                      31. Teredo navalis.

                                      32. Serpula  .

   The above list is likely to be sensibly augmented as fresh

species are discovered.
   Here are 32 species in 200 (or one sixth) common to the two

sides of the Atlantic, while, as we have seen, in 195 fossils of

our middle tertiary there are but 6; and in 210 eocene fossils

also only 6 which inhabited both continents during those re
moter teras. We shall presently see, that during a still earlier
period, that of the secondary cretaceous group, there was but a
single species in 102 described which had this wide dispersion
over both continents. Whether we shall discover a like dis
similarity in the organic remains of yet older formations is a
question still to be solved, and it will require much preliminary
labour and research.

  In concluding this survey of our tertiary formations, I ought
       REPORT ON THE GEOLOGY OF NORTH AMERICA.                                                                                                   40

not to omit the curious and important fact, in harmony, I believe,
with all the views here advanced, that among the organic re
mains of these deposits no traces of anything of freshwater or
terrestrial origin have ever been discovered.
StaStteesp. s--inThthee  History                           of the Tertiary   Formations of the United
                         whole of
                                                           that large tract   of the Atlantic plain and
the basin of the Mississippi now found to be occupied by the
tertiary and cretaceous formations, was originally laid down by
M'Clure as alluvial. The first approach to a just knowledge of
its geology commenced with the determination of about forty
species of fossil shells collected in Maryland by Mr. Finch.
Neither of these gentlemen, however, drew any geological in
ferences from the organic remains they examined. Dr. Van
Ransaellar afterwards referred the deposits in question to the
age of the upper marine tertiary formation of England. Dr.
Morton supported the same opinion, pointing out several species
of fossil shells common to both sides of the Atlantic. After
wards, in 1830, Mr. Conrad visited Maryland, discovered the
newer pleiocene at the mouth of the Potomac, which however he
did not pronounce to be tertiary, examined the fossils of the

formations which I have called middle tertiary or older pleiocene

and meiocene, and which he had previously named upper marine,
and also those of Fort Washington on the Potomac, which he

ventured to suggest were of the age of the London clay. In
1832, after a visit to Suffolk, James river, and York, to collect
tertiary shells, Mr. Conrad commenced his work on the fossil
t'sehmremildlsd'leuopftpeterhrteiamrteyarrt'iinafeoryr     formations of this country, retaining the
                                                        '    for the older pleiocene, using the title
                                                           what he had shown to belong to the age
oanf dthaeppLolynindgonthcelanya,maend'                    which
                                                           lower  he now shows     to be  our eocene,
                                                                  tertiary ' to a  class  of beds de
scribed as the plastic clay formation, first by Mr. Finch, and
tsahefteceornawpdaparredylslabtibyoynVHaointfuchx' ceaomncc,kiebnaut ntdawllMhuivocirhutmoIn',,hataovnebdereaoscfesnmutlbuyocrhdshimnoaowtreen,
                                                                                                                                                 to the
                                                                                                                                                 under
                                                                                                                                                 recent
formation. Not long after, Mr. Conrad visited the eastern shore
of Maryland, where, on the Choptank, he procured many new
fossils, and made some interesting observations upon the beds

in which they occur. In 1833 he visited Alabama, where he
found the eocene very largely developed. His discoveries among
the organic remains of that quarter constitute the largest con
tribution yet made to our tertiary geology. More recently, my
brother and myself have begun the development of the pleiocene

and meiocene in Virginia. In 1834, Mr. Lea published his

Contributions to American Geoloqy, describing about two

1834.                                                             E
50 FOURTH REPORT -- 1834.

hundred shells from the eocene of Alabama, the right of priority

to the discovery of many of which, however, Mr. Conrad and he

dispute.
   Many scattered descriptions of parts of our tertiary field have
                                    our Journals                                              but as they have
appeared   from time to time in                                                          ;
contained  little or no scientific  geology, I do                                           not deem it neces

stiaarryCyrehtfeaorcremeotaoutsiomnFesontrimoisnatcitaohlnceusm.la. --tedT,heI  survey   just given of our ter
                                                                                 think,   to show how greatly

formations of the same or nearly the same period, occurring in
remote regions, may differ both in mineralogical characters and
in organic remains. The peculiarities which distinguish the
tertiary rocks of this country from those of Europe are clearly
traceable to the general dissimilarity in the physical structure
of the two continents, particularly in the almost total absence
of volcanic formations in the United States.
   This country, for a long series of periods, seems to have suf

fered less repeated and powerful convulsions than the opposite
shores of Europe ; so that the same comparative exemption
Ifrom disturbances is as apparent in our secondary as have al
Iready shown it to be in our tertiary periods.
                              small number of species                                       of  have already
                              the two continents, and                                                    com
noticed   the  remarkably                                                                    I  fossils
mon to    the  tertiaries of                                                                    doubt    if we

shall ultimately establish any closer identity in those of the

group now before us. While the cretaceous formations of Eu
rope, from Ireland to Russia, are characterized throughout by
a numerous class of peculiar fossils, it is not a little singular that
so few of the same species     should
rocks of the corresponding    period in                                         pAremseenritcat--hemnostelvmeosreinthtahne
two perhaps of the 108 which are known. This fact, in con
junction with the no less striking one that we have yet disco
vered no true chalk in North America, has made me hesitate to

apply without some qualification the received European names
to these formations. For our information regarding this group,
which embraces at present, perhaps, the most advanced portion
of our geology, we are mainly indebted to the writings and re
searches of Dr. Samuel G. Morton, a new edition of whose work
having just appeared, I am enabled to present this branch of the
subject in its most complete state.
    Dr. Morton entitles these newest                                            of  our secondary beds the
'  cretaceous group', and regards them                                              divisible into two forma
                                                                                as

tions, the lowest of which he calls the ferruginous sand, and the
upper the calcareous strata. A very few years ago the group in
question was not known to extend beyond the peninsula of New
Jersey and a small part of Delaware. Subsequent discoveries,
       REPORT OX THE GEOLOGY OF NORTH AMERICA.                                    51

however, mainly due to Mr. Conrad, have shown it to exist in
nearly all the Southern States ; and from specimens brought,
from time to time, from the interior of the continent, it would

appear to occur abundantly on the Missouri far across towards
the Rocky Mountains. From observations made by Professor
Hitchcock upon the clay and sand strata of Martha's Vineyard,
there seems little reason to doubt its existence either beneath
                             the vicinity ; and it is more
that island or somewhere in  that it underlies Long Island.                       t"haInt
probable, from appearances,
is first unequivocally seen in New Jersey, whence it may be
traced locally through Delaware, Maryland, Virginia, North
and South Carolina, Georgia, Alabama, Mississippi, Tennessee,
"Lotuhiessiaenvaa,riAourksandseapso,sitasn, dthMoiusgshousrei.e"minDglry.  Morton remarks that
                                                                            insulated, are doubt

less continuous, or nearly so, forming an irregular crescent nearly
three thousand miles in extent ; and, what is very remarkable,
there is not only a generic accordance between the fossil shells
Iscattered through this vast tract, but, in by far the greater num

ber of comparisons have hitherto been able to make, the same
species of fossils are found throughout : thus, the Ammonites
placenta, Bacutites ovatns, Gryphon Vomer, Ostrea falcata,
Exogyra, &c., are found without a shadow of difference from
New Jersey to Louisiana, although some species have been found
in the latter state that have not been noticed in the former, and

vice versa."

   Calcareous Formations. -- Beds of limestone and calcareous

sandstones form the upper strata of the secondary class through
out the greater part of the marl region, as it is called, of New

Jersey. They always occur in thin, horizontal, and rubbly lay
ers, either interstratified with blueish clay, or more commonly
resting immediately upon the friable sands and marls of the
formation beneath. The more calcareous beds are often highly
fossiliferous and partially crystalline, reminding me strongly in
their stratification and general appearance of some of the com
pcoaaf lc"cltaiAmraenenod,ueswxthtitrsiehntrmaoaetaolylcitoaesnfsrsipiadrobeeflsreaeEbnnmlteginalagssnp,drto.hcpoeonfrtDotailrioln.oniwnMignoogfrattiorvonalenrai,edstetsiesil3cse7r, ixb--,pees&rc.tcheensItet.
paphpy"teeAasrs--yetlolowbieshalmorossttraewn-tciroelolyurceodmplimoseesdtonoef,
                                                                                  disintegrated zoo
                                                                                  as hard as the car

"boniferous varieties, containing numerous organic remains,--

     A granular or subcrystalline limestone, intermediate in
structure between the former two, and including similar fos

sils.

                             f. -2
52 FOURTH REPORT 1834.

  " A white soft limestone, not harder than some coarse chalks,
wh"icAhllitthmeusechvareriseetimesbleosc, carespiolentaellywcitohntfaoisnsilisn.filtrations of sili
ceous matter, and considerable masses of chert are sometimes
observed in them : they also present some appearances of the
green grains so characteristic of the marls adjacent."
These calcareous strata appear to be much less abundantly
distributed in New Jersey than the friable sands and marls upon
which they rest, for they have hitherto been found only at in
terrupted intervals along the south-eastern border of the marl

region.
   Limestone strata, however, seem to compose nearly the whole
of the cretaceous group in the Southern States, where they exist
on a scale of vast extent and thickness, rising into bold undu
lating hills, which resemble in their features the surface of the
chalk in Europe, and seldom or never repose upon the sands
which form their substrata in New Jersey. In Alabama, Mr.
Conrad states this formation to constitute nearly the whole bed
of the country, the eocene occupying very limited patches in
the valleys of some of the rivers. Generally throughout Georgia
and the States south and west of these limestones are deveis is
                            is it,
loped as two distinct strata. That which universally superior
in position                                                           is

                                                                                 a
                                                                                      is
           is is     very white friable limestone, containing many
casts of shells peculiar to itself, while beneath this a compacta
blueish limestone, alternating with friable limestone and with
greenish siliceous sand, which indurated into rock, and con
tains fossils and the peculiar green particles of silicate of iron.
The thickness of the lower deposit stated to be about 300 feet
on the Alabama river. Its characteristic fossil the Exogyra
                                                                      is

costata, the same shell which so remarkably distinctive of the
marl beds in the ferruginous sand formation of New Jersey and
Delaware.

   In some places, as in Wilcox county, Alabama, this lower
limestone seen to rest upon still inferior bed of a friable
                     a

                                                   it,
greenish sandstone, containing fossils, especially the Ostrea fal
cate, and also presenting, like the limestone above                                       some of

the green grains everywhere characteristic of these cretaceous
formations.

   Ferruginous Sands of New Jersey.--These arenaceous strata

compose tne chief mass of the secondary deposits in New Jersey,
being buc partially overlaid by the very thin calcareous strata
before mentioned. The mineralogical character of this deposit

extremely variable, though the most usual constituents are
is

                                                                   a
the following: 1st. Siliceous sand, mostly yellowish and ferru
ginous, though sometimes of green colour, answering to the
REPORT ON THE GEOLOGY OF NORTH AMERICA.                       53

glauconie sablense of Brongniart. These sands occasionally
occur in indurated strata containing fossils, when they form a
rock precisely the same in all respects as that which underlies
the limestone in Alabama. 2ndly. The peculiar greenish chlo-
ritic grains of the greensand formation of Europe. This mine
ral exists generally in the shape of small grains of about the
size and form, and not unfrequently of the dark plumbago co
lour, of gunpowder. Sometimes it has a rich warm green, but
more commonly an olive grey or dull blue, or even a very dark

chocolate colour.
The grains, although they contain about 50 per cent, of silica,

are not gritty, can be easily bruised between the teeth, and when
moistened some varieties can even be kneaded into a somewhat
plastic mass. A pile of this marl, as the granular mineral is
called by the inhabitants of New Jersey, after being somewhat

exposed to the air, frequently contracts a light grey hue, from
the exterior          obbesceorvmaitniognscoaI tehdavwe itmhaadew, hiistemionsfltorepsrcoebnacbel,y
which, from   grains                                          Mgrre. eSneygbrearitnsp:r--e
              some

carbonate of lime.    The following analysis             by
sents a fair average  of the composition of              the

6ilica 49'83, alumina 6"00, magnesia 1'83, potash 10'12, prot
oxide of iron 21-53, water 9-80 ; loss 0-89 = 100 grains. Other
analyses show occasionally as much as 5 per cent, of lime.
   Mica in minute scales mingles not unfrequently in the less pure
varieties of the marl, which often contains more or less blue clay.
I Once or twice, in examining a mass of these mineral grains,

  have detected numerous minute spicula of selenite. Almost
every large heap of the marl exhales a distinct odour, closely
resembling sulphur. These mineral grains occur in greater or
less proportion in nearly all the strata, both arenaceous and
calcareous, of the formation ; but what is remarkable, they occur
alone, without any admixture of either sand or clay, in a homo
geneous deposit, which seems to underlie nearly the whole secon
dary tract of New Jersey, the stratum averaging ten or twelve
feet in thickness.

  It is this stratum which is especially called the marl, rather
from its highly fertilizing action upon the              Isoil than for any re
semblance it has to marl strictly defined.                  am not aware that

the green chloritic substance has been found composing any
                                                in such  a state of entire purity, in any
oexthteenrsirveegiosnep. araItehadveepmoseitt,  with no  description of any such stra

tum out of New Jersey, either in Europe or among the creta
ceous masses of our Southern States.

Beds of a dark blue tenacious clay, not unlike the gault of
England, occur sometimes associated with these beds of marl,
54 FOURTH REPORT -- 1834.

and sometimes the clay and marl are mingled. Beneath the
stratum of pure greensand or marl, a dark ferruginous sand
stone, containing many of the same cretaceous fossils which
abound in the marl, has occasionally been reached. This, which
is the lowest bed of the group, exhibits a striking resemblance
to some of the ferruginous sandstone and conglomerate of the
lower greensand of England, and serves to indicate how similar
in general the chemical and mechanical circumstances appear to
have been during the same geological period on both sides of the
Atlantic.
   Some localities in New Jersey present    " beds of a siliceous

gravel, the pebbles varying in size from coarse sand to an inch
in diameter, and either loose, or cemented by brown oxide and

green phosphate of iron ; the mass containing sometimes a pro
fusion of fossils." When it occurs, it usually rests above the

marl.

The last bed to be described is a sandstone deposit, resting
above all                                    It occurs rarely in  situ,
except as  the  deposits here enumerated.
           the  top stratum on most of the  detached ridges and   out
lying hills, but it is found, mingled with the general diluvium,
in worn and broken fragments over nearly all the denuded tracts.

It consists of sand and minute pebbles of quart/, united by a
dark brown ferruginous cement, the whole rock having a very
perfect resemblance to the ferruginous conglomerate of the  lower
greensand at Lockswell Heath in Wiltshire, England.
                                                            It is

destitute, however, of fossiliferous impressions and casts. Some
times it incloses a sensible quantity of the green grains, which,
however, have no effect in modifying its colour.
The sand composing the rock has often the character of a
coarse triturated beach sand ; this is especially seen in the
quarries about four miles east of Burlington, where it occurs in
a regular horizontal bed many feet thick.
The diversified deposits of sand, marl, clay, sandstone, gravel,
&c., described above, assume a great variety of mineralogical
character, resulting from their various conditions of induration,
and their almost endless intermixture. The most fossiliferous

beds are the marl, and the marly sand which usually reposes im

mediately upon it. In the marl the organic remains, consisting
of shells, zoophytes, and bones of Kept ilia in great number, ap
pear to have been preserved in a very perfect state from the
imperviousness of the greensand to water, which descends
with facility through the arenaceous beds above, but is invariably
arrested and thrown out along the upper surface of the marl.
The water percolating through the overlying marly sands has
effected a change upon the fossils, leaving them in this bed
REPORT ON THK GEOLOGY OV NORTH AMERICA.                                                                                                          55

either mere casts, or almost entirely obliterating them. In its
descent it is seen to become charged with ferruginous matter,
staining the fossils near the upper surface of the marl of a deep
brown colour, and coating whatever it overflows with a ferrugi
nous incrustation.

  I have nowhere seen a better example of the changes which
the infiltration of water can effect upon strata than may be wit
nessed in these marl deposits of New Jersey, where every variety
of dissolving and cementing agency is in hourly operation upon

a large scale.
The mineral contents of these secondary strata of New Jersey
are, iron pyrites in profusion, lenzinite, peculiar spheroidal
masses of a dark green colour, carbonate and phosphate of lime
occasionally replacing the fossils in the form of casts. Lignite
is extremely abundant ; it is found in the lower strata of the
Chesapeake and Delaware canal, in almost every variety from
charred wood to well-characterized jet.
The following appears to be the most usual order of the above-
described cretaceous strata in New Jersey :
1. Dark ferruginous sandstone and conglomerate, consisting
of limpid quartose sand, cemented by a dark brown ferruginous
paste ; contains also some of the green grains.

2. Rubbly calcareous stratum.

3. Arenaceous stratum, being chiefly a yellow sand, mingled
with a greater or less share of the green grains, or marl, and a
small quantity of clay. Sometimes thirty or forty feet thick.
Fossils usually in the state of casts.

  4. Marl. A mass of little else than the chloritic grains, loose
acansd5t.sunAocfermsehdeenlfltseerd;r,--ug1tih0neoourps a1sr2atinfcedleeststotnhbeie,ciknfgu; lllfiumolflpiotdhfefqousimsairplstrz.esssiaonnds,
                                                                                                                                                 and
                                                                                                                                                 and

some green grains.
With respect to the basis upon which the greensands of New
Jersey rest, nothing is known with certainty. Although a sec
tion was made in cutting the Chesapeake and Delaware canal,
of nearly one hundred feet deep, the upper part through the
beds of the ancient alluvium, and the lower through those of the
cretaceous period, no older formation was reached. There seems
good reason to believe, however, from the nonappearance of
any formations along the Atlantic plain of an age correspond
ing to the oolite and new red sandstone groups of Europe, that

the superior secondary beds repose, wherever they are developed
in the States north of Alabama, upon rocks of the primary class.
In Alabama, on the other hand, where the primary formations
do not extend, the probability is, that they rest upon rocks of
56 FOURTH REPORT 1834.

the age of the grauwacke and carboniferous formations, in as
much as the two have been seen by Mr. Conrad in the northern
part of that State almost in contact.
    The whole of the above-described strata of North Jersey
might seem to merit                                                    formation of
the United States, and          the name           of the  greensand  this designa
                                                  propose  applying
                                I should
tion to the deposit, in lieu of that of ferruginous sand, which
was originally appropriated to it by Dr. Morton, were it not,
first, that the greensand being but little developed among the
beds of the same periods in the vast formations of the south,
the name would not be expressive of the prevailing character of
the group, except in the comparatively very limited area of
New                             secondly, that in the present early stage of
our  dJiescrsoeveyrie; sa, ndI  am not entirely satisfied as to what are its

true relations to the European formations, and therefore hesitate
to appropriate to it the title of a formation with which there is
little prospect of its ever being shown to be strictly identical
either in mineral structure or organic contents.
    The following more detailed description of these formations
in  New Jersey  is so well                                                  Dr. Morton
in  the recent  edition of      hainsdSysnuocpcisnisc,tlythgativeInshbayll   extract the

acc"ouFnetrrualgminoostusentSiraen. d. --In New Jersey the tract which has
been known by the name of the marl district may be located as
follows : Draw two lines, one from Amboy to Trenton, the
other from Deal to Salem ; let the Atlantic Ocean connect the

eastern, and the Delaware river the western points of these
lines : this irregular oblong tract incloses nearly the whole
marl deposits of New Jersey, so far, at least, as it has hitherto
been explored. There is reason, however, to suppose that it
occupies a much larger proportion of the peninsula, especially
in some places, overlaid by deep deposits of clay and sand, as
at "BoInrdoetnhetor wlonc, aWlitiheist,ethHeiloll,de&rcp. leiocene (meiocene) overlies the
sec'o. nTdhaery,fosassilsis,  the case a few miles   from Salem.
                                                    shown, are of           a  very  strik
                              as will hereafter be

ing character, occasionally grouped in vast numbers, and in
other instances almost wholly absent. The genera Gryphcea,
Ex"ogCyarlaca, reaondusBSetlreamtan.it--esTharee  found abundantly throughout."
                                                  calcareous beds have been traced

as far south as Salem, and north to Vincent town, a tract of
nearly sixty miles in length, in a direction nearly parallel to the
Delaware river, and from seven to ten miles east of it. They
are marked throughout by the several varieties of calcareous

rock already described, and characterized by abundance of zo
REPORT ON THE GEOLOGY OF NORTH AMERICA.                                     57

ophytes and Echini, and a few species of shells. These fossils,
with a few exceptions, have also been found in the arenaceous
bed ; but many of the organic remains of the latter are not ob
served in the limestone strata, which have not yielded any mul-
tilocular univalves, unless the doubtful fossil Belemnites} am-
higmis be of this character : neither do they contain Terebra-
tiilcc nor Exogyrce."

    Throughout the marl region of New Jersey, the traces of
an extensive denudation of the former surface are everywhere
conspicuous ; and, what is remarkable, the excavation has ex
tended almost invariably down to the marl stratum, but hardly
in any case through it; the consequence of which is, that nearly
all the meadows and low grounds, which are very numerous,
expose this deposit immediately beneath the surface. These
depressions in the surface are always occupied by creeks and
streams, many of them receiving the tide, while the rest are
only a few feet above it. The uplifting force must therefore
have operated very equally over the whole region, as the strata
themselves sufficiently evince in their undisturbed features and
uniformly horizontal position, wherever they are seen, from
Salem to their termination on the shores of Amboy Bay. The

Neversink Hills, Mount Holly, and Mullica Hill, are low insu

lated outlying hills, from 100 to 200 feet elevation, having,
like all the ridges in this region, their longer axes parallel with
the Delaware river, or in other words, with the longitudinal
diameter of the tract. These hills and ridges are almost inva

Iriably capped by a thin layer of the superficial ferruginous sand

stone or conglomerate, which have before stated to be the
general overlying rock of the marl deposits. The mineralogical
nature of this rock, its uniform parallelism to the other second
ary beds wherever the surface has not sustained much denuda
tion, its universal occurrence in scattered fragments throughout
all the intervening denuded tracts, and the quantity of the green
grains in are all reasons to induce me to think that this rock

        true member, and the uppermost bed of the New Jersey
secondary group. The whole formation expands towards its
north-eastern extremity in approaching which seems like
wise to increase regularly in elevation, attaining its greatest
height in the Neversink Hills. As to the various upheaving
and denuding actions which have brought this portion of New

Jersey to its present configuration, am not now prepared to
speculate, but shall merely in this place remark, that the valleys
adjoining the streams in this tract, like the valleys the tertiary
districts further south, are never covered by the diluvium which
invests the general surface of the country. They are also of
is

      a

              it,

                                                               ;

                                         I

                                                                     in it
58 FOURTH RBPORT -- 1834.

such size and structure as to preclude the idea that the present

puny streams could have had any part in excavating them. They
must suggest to every geologist the conclusion that they have
been filled by the tide from one escarpment to the other, so
                     broad bay or   short tidal  river.
that each was     a  Ferruginous                 this State,
                                   Sand. -- In
   "Delaware.                                                    the  blue  and

grey friable marls extend in the line of the Chesapeake and
Delaware canal, from St. George's almost to the western lock.
St. George's and its vicinity afford Grypkeea and Exogyra in
great numbers, with Ostrea falcata, and some Belemnites.
The deep cut of the canal abounds in Ammonites, Baculites, and
Scaphites, without any of the fossils previously mentioned. This
locality consists of a series of pyritous sands and clays, of which
Ithe" sMhealrlsylaarnedd. e--compaomseidn,folremaveidngthoant ltyhethefercrausgtsin."ous sand oc
curs below Annapolis in this state, at which place it is chiefly
characterized by Alcyonia. Mr. Conrad obtained at Fort Wash
ington, on the Potomac, a solitary valve of Exogyra, indicating
the" pVreirsgeinnciea.o--f tAhiswfroitremr aitnionth."e American Journal of Science

speaks of the occurrence of Belemnites and Gryphcea on James
riv"eNr, obrutht
                  gives no locality."    Sand. --This is well developed
                  Carolina. Ferruginous
at Ashwood, on Cape Fear river, where, according to the late
Mr. William Bertram, there are several beds of dark-coloured
marl containing Belemnites, shark's teeth, pyritous lignite, &c.
&c. These strata are surmounted by the usual diluvial mass

to a depth of ten or twelve feet." At Wilmington, North Caro
lina, Mr. Conrad found the upper marine formation resting
immediately on secondary limestone precisely like that described
by Dr. Morton as occurring in New Jersey; it is in thin layers,
and reposes directly on a hard rock, which is the equivalent of
the ferruginous sand, as it abounds in Exogyra costata and other
characteristic fossils. The calcareous strata are said by intel
ligent persons here, to extend sixty miles up Cape Fear river,
and from its mouth   c--oasTthweisfeerarus gfianrounsortshanasd  Cape Hatteras.
                                                                  formation occurs
   "South Carolina.
near Effingham's Mill, on Lynch's Creek. The fossils are
chiefly Exogyra costata. Mar's Bluff, on Pedee river, and Nel

son's Ferry on    SSatnratetea.r--ivTehr,eacfafolcrdaretohuesBestlreamtaniftoersmaamneerxictaennussiv.e
   "Calcareous

basin to the west of the city of Charleston : this limestone,
which is of the newest cretaceous formation, is mostly yellowish
white, friable, and replete with fossils, although the number
of species hitherto discovered is inconsiderable. Among these
REPORT ON THJi GEOLOGY OF NORTH AMERICA.                                                                                                        59

the Ostrea cretacea and Ostrea panda occur also in the older

cre"taGceeooursgiad.ep--osTithse  of Alabama."  sand  appears  to abound                                                                        near
                                   ferruginous
Sandersville in this State, whence 1 have received a number of
spe"cAimlaebnasmoaf .t--heTBheisleSmtantietepsreasmenetrsicaa nvuass.t"deposit of both strata.
Mr. Conrad informs us that the counties of Pickens, Bibb,
Greene, Perry, Dallas, Marengo, Wilcox, Downes, Montgo
mery, and parts of Clarke, Monroe, and Conecute, are chiefly
composed of the older cretaceous strata. In Clarke county the
newer cretaceous rock predominates.
"One of the localities most prolific of fossils is Prairie Bluff, in
Wilcox county. The following diagram will convey an idea of

its strata:

Feet 2. Loam.
         2. Ferruginous sand, generally indurated, with Exogyra and Grypheea.
      70. Same deposit, in a friable state, with abundance of Ostrea fakala.
            Rirer bed.

   "The older cretaceous rock constitutes the long and perpendi
cular bluff at Demopolis, where it has been ascertained by boring
to be at least 500 feet thick. The more elevated bluff at Erie
is chiefly composed of the same rock, which is here very friable,
and well characterized by fine specimens of Pecten quinque-

costatus, as well as abundance of Exogyra costata. A short di
stance north of Erie, the cretaceous rocks terminate, following
the course of the Black Warrior ; and at Tuscaloosa the old red

sandstone with bituminous coal forms the bed of that river.

The Tombeckbe and most of its tributaries run entirely through
a region, the substratum of which is the cretaceous group, al
though it is probable that their sources originate in the carbo
niferous limestone, which may extend into the north-east section
of Mississippi. We learn from travellers that the cretaceous
rocks chiefly compose the countries of the Chickasaws and
Choctaws, and it is highly probable that nearly the whole State

of Mississippi is of the same formation. It is worthy of remark
that all the prairies of Alabama and Mississippi have a sub
stratum of the older cretaceous rock. The newer cretaceous

strata prevail only in the southern portion of Alabama, are
never covered with a prairie soil, and have not been observed
nator"CthlNauiobmfortmhneuel,i'cteensatrLyaislmMepasrtr.tosnCeoo.fn--rCal'daA,rfkt'eeIratcrnardovseMsllieondngrotoheveecAroluaanbtlaieemvse.al
                                                                                                                                                river
                                                                                                                                                allu

vial country for two or three miles, when the surface became
broken by gravelly hills, covered by a pine forest. Near Suggs
60 FOURTH KEPORT -- 1834.

ville the hills are formed of the nummulite limestone, masses
of which are scattered in every direction : it is porous, and con

tains spheroidal cavities, formed, no doubt, by the decomposi
tion of organic remains, which leave loose casts that are easily
washed out by the rains. The most characteristic fossil at this

pla"ceThisesOestlirmeaesptoannedah. ills occur at intervals to the vicinity of
Jackson, on the Tombeckbe : on Basset's Creek one of these hills

rises probably to a height of 300 feet above the water level. St.
Stephens is on a high bluff of this rock, which, wherever it
occurs, forms a very broken or undulating surface. A short
distance above the village, the bluff rises nearly perpen
dicular from the river, and is about 100 feet high. Every
where in the vicinity this limestone crops out on the summits
of the hills, and myriads of Nummulites Mantelli are scattered
over the surface of the decomposing rock. The Gryphcea Vomer
is occasionally found among them, and the Ostrea panda is
abundant ; but no other fossils occur excepting what are pe
culiar to the limestone in question. On the hills the Pecten
Poulsoni is in abundance. Near low-water mark in the bluff
is a stratum of shells, consisting of Ostrea panda and Plagio-
stoma dumosum, both equally abundant. The surface of this
rock is in many places very hard and of a blueish colour, com
pact and glittering when fractured, and is convertible into ex
cel"leAntgaliimn e.it is often white and friable, and so much resembles
chalk that it is not surprising that it should have been mistaken
for the real chalk of commerce, from which it differs, in pos
sessing a coarse and more granulated structure, and in contain
                                                     of argillaceous earth."
ing" aMciossnissidsieprpabi.le--pTrhoispoSrttaioten  has an extensive marl tract  in   the
Ch"ickTaesnanwessfeieeld. --s,
                                 near  the borders of       Tennessee."                re
                                The    south-western        portion of Tennessee

presents a continuation of the tract just mentioned, which takes
a westerly direction across the Mississippi River at the Chicka
      Bluffs."
saw"  Louisiana.  --            Dr.    Pitcher,      in  a  recent  letter, describes  an

extensive deposit of ferruginous sand between Alexandria and
Natchitoches. Judge Bry has also noticed it near the township
of Wachita, on the Wachita River, where it is recognised by
Be"lemArnkiatenxs,asA. m--mMonri.teNsu, ttaanlld     Gryphcea."
                                                     long ago found  fossils  of this for

mation on the calcareous platform of Red River, above and
below the junction of the Kiameska ; and Dr. Pitcher, of the
REPORT OX THE GEOLOGY OF NORTH AMERICA.                                                                          61

United States army, now               at Fort      Gibson, has obtained speci
mens for my use, among                             readily identify the Gryphcea
                                      which I
Vomer, Exogyra costata, &c."
For the sake of exhibiting more fully the conditions of the
comparison between the formations of the superior secondary,
Ior cretaceous group of North America, and the equivalent group

in Europe, shall present the following summary of the or
ganic remains hitherto discovered in New Jersey, Delaware,
and Alabama.
                                      Sauria.
Mosasaurus. --Thought to be identical with the Mosasaurus of
CGreoEocusoraodupilreeu..s--.--TNTeeeeweththJearansndedyo.pthaertr(Mopoforrattoijonan.w)s.,
Safurroomdotnh.e--m(aHrlayres.g)ion.      New                                                 New Jersey. (Dekay.)
                                      Portions                                               indicating three species,

                                                Jersey.                                      of  an extinct animal,
                                                 of a jaw
the relations of which are not very clearly known. It is
thought to be analogous to the Saurians. (See American
   Philosophical
Great Saurian     oTf rHaonnsfalectuior.ns?.--) I  have                                      recently described  two
Ivertebrae from Jersey, and another from Alabama, which
regard as either identical with, or very closely allied to, bones
figured by Cuvier from Honfleur, which he considers to ap
proach nearer to the Plesiosaurus than to any other genus.

(See Journ. of the Acad. Nat. Sci. of Philadelphia.)
                                      Testudo.

Several bones from the marl deposit in New Jersey. (Morton.)

                                      Pisces.
Squalus. --Teeth and vertebrae of several species of shark are
   abundant in New
Sphyrcena.-- Some   Jersey and Alabama. (Morton.)                                                of              fishes
                    remains of this curious genus
occur in the blue marl of New Jersey. (Morton.)

                                        Aves.

A solitary tibia of a bird of the genus Scolopax has been found

   in the green marl in New Jersey. (Morton.)

                               Testacea, &c.

The whole number of Testacea, Echinodermata, and Zo
ophytes described by Dr. Morton in his Synopsis of the Organic
Remains   oOfftthheesCer,ettawceooubseloGngroutop  of the                                    United States,  is 108
species.                                                                                     which are new,   while
                                                   genera
one species only, the Pecten quinquecostatus, is thought to be
common to the strata of both America and Europe.
This latter fact is certainly not a little remarkable, as it goes
62 FOURTH REPORT -- 1834.

to prove, contrary to general opinion, that the organic races of
remote regions differed as much during a part of the secondary

sera as during the more modern tertiary and recent periods.
  It certainly seems difficult to explain,  utpeortniaarydifsotrimncattioionnsf,r--e

quently admitted between secondary and
namely, that the  foinrmmeorrearceondfeinepedseaanddeploocsaitls,bawsihnisle, --thwehlyatttheer
have been formed

range of the species should have been actually less in the earlier
sera than during the more modern dates of the tertiary. So far as
Irelates to the superior secondary formations of the United States,

  can perceive no evidence whatever that they were produced in
a deeper sea than the tertiary beds which succeeded them. The

secondary rocks have fully as much the appearance as the ter
tiary of having been the bed of a shallow sea, like that which en
circles our Atlantic coast with so wide a belt of soundings at the

present day. It must be borne in mind that all this portion of
North America is, and has been since the period of the coal forma
tion, remarkably exempt from agitation by volcanic causes ; so
that the Atlantic plain offers no resemblance, in its universally
horizontal beds, to the broken, contorted, and denuded strata

which diversify the tertiary and secondary scenery of the western
regions of Europe. We are not likely ever to discover the
modern formations of this country resting among the Alleg-
hanies, as the cretaceous formations of Europe cap the Alps and
Apennines. For the same reason we may look in vain over
the whole of North America for a structure like that seen in

the Weald, or in other well-known disturbed districts along the
southern coast of England. So many successive upheavings

and submersions as those shores have experienced, betoken the
long-continued activity of subterranean forces during a time
when the similar actions upon this side of North America were
almost dormant.
We are presented with no phaenomena along the flat mono
tonous coast of the United States, like those which lend so

high a charm to the geology and scenery of the cliff- lined coast
of the English Channel.
So small an amount of disturbing action ought to favour the
wide dispersion of the marine inhabitants of this region ; and

we are therefore not to be astonished at seeing, as we do, many
of the New Jersey fossils in Alabama, or at finding, as we have
every reason to anticipate, the same group of species in the
strata upon the Missouri, 2000 miles west from the cretaceous
formations upon the Atlantic.
Similar reasons should lead us to look for a somewhat gra
dual transition from the secondary to the tertiary series of
REPORT ON THE GEOLOGY OF NORTH AMERICA.                             63

fossils ; and we do accordingly witness a manifest mingling of
the races of the two periods, as the following Table will make
apparent.

Table showing the Species common to the Eocene and the

    Upper Cretaceous Strata, and also the Species common to
   the latter and the Lower Cretaceous Strata, in Alabama.

     Formations.                       Range of Species.

Older tertiary, or                Plagiostoma dumosum.
         eocene.                  Ostrea sellieformis.
                                  Pecten calvatus.
                                  Scutella Lyelli.

Upper cretaceous                  Plagiostoma dumosum.
       limestone.                 Ostrea sellseformis.
                                  Pecten calvatus.
Lower cretaceous                  Scutella Lyelli.
      limestone.                  Ostrea cretacea.
                                  Ostrea panda.
                                  Gryphaea Vomer.

                                  Ostrea cretacea.
                                  Ostrea panda.
                                  Gryphaea Vomer.

   After carefully reviewing, in  a tabular form,         tghreourpe,laItiofinnsd
of the organic remains of our     upper secondary
that if we adopt for our data the 102 known species of Testacea

and Echinodermata (rejecting the zoophytes), we perceive that
14 species are peculiar to the upper cretaceous formation of Ala
bama, and that only two or three of its species are found in
the marl formation of New Jersey. We discover, however,
that a much larger number are common to the New Jersey
deposits, and the lower limestone formation in Alabama.
Subtracting the above 14 species, in order to make the
comparison between the marl and this latter formation, we
have of the two classes mentioned 88 species. Out of these
88 species, 39 are peculiar to the marl formation of Jersey
and Delaware, 32 to the older calcareous strata, and 17
common to the two. These numbers show a want of identity
in the fossils of the two regions worthy of notice. The
two deposits, the ferruginous sand or marl of New Jersey, and
the inferior calcareous strata of the south, are regarded by
Dr. Morton as one formation. Though this opinion may
                                           it in the
very possibly    be correct, to establish                 present   state
of our data                                 possible,      indeed,   that
               would be difficult. It is
64 FOURTH REPORT -- 1834.

while strata strictly synchronous are forming, as great a dif
ference may prevail between two groups of species inhabit
ing remote sections of the same coast as is observable in
comparing those of our two secondary deposits. But on the
Atlantic coast of North America such differences should be less

than upon almost any other, from the influence of the gulf-

stream, and other causes elsewhere stated.
We are therefore at present at a loss to know how much of
this want of identity among the species we should ascribe to
disparity of age in the formations ; how much to difference in
the aqueous climate, and other circumstances controlling or
ganic life.
Until a more extended list of fossils shall have been collected

for the comparison, and, above all, until our geologists shall
Ihave examined more in detail the phenomena of the stratifi

cation and structure of each region, would recommend that
the question of their relative age be not anticipated by the ap
plication of a common name, but that this point be left for a

seaIsothninskubijtudniocte.improbable that we shall ultimately regard the
upper limestone of our superior secondary group in Alabama as
a somewhat newer formation than the inferior calcareous strata

of the same state on the arenaceous marl deposit of New Jersey.
The occurrence of several of its fossils among the fossils of the
overlying eocene seems to indicate that its true position is near
the top of the secondary series.

   Taken in their mineralogical relations, the marls and sands
of New Jersey would seem to occupy a place corresponding
nearest to the greensand formation of Europe ; and the lime
stone strata of the south may be thought to harmonize imper
fectly with the chalk, or a portion, perhaps, more truly with
the calcareous strata of Maestricht. Such certainly are their
Irather obvious analogies mineralogically, but it    is doubtful if

this ought to decide the question of their relative  age. I would
not have it understood, therefore, that view the American

upper secondary formations in any other light at present than
as the loose equivalents of the great cretaceous group of Europe.

I have already mentioned the existence of but one, or at furthest
two species, to link the organic remains of these strata in the
two opposite continents.
Another striking peculiarity, which also marks the want of
that resemblance which we might expect, is the absence from
these formations of any true chalk deposit. There would ap
pear to be no sufficient evidence of the existence of this remark
able formation in any known region of North America. May
REPORT ON THE GEOLOGY OF NORTH AMERICA.  65

not this be another result of the long dormant state of the vol

Icanic forces in this hemisphere ? It has been a received doc

trine, believe, that igneous action has had much to do with
giving solubility to so vast a mass of silica and carbonate of
lime, which are regarded in the chalk formation as having been
produced rather in the state of a chemical precipitate than in
that of a mechanical sediment.

   The following recapitulation of the leading facts and deduc
tions brought forward in the foregoing survey of our superior
secondary formations, will assist in elucidating more clearly the
present state of this portion of our geology.

    1 . The deposits of New Jersey differ from those of the South
ern States in being chiefly arenaceous, and in containing an
immense quantity of the pure chloritic mineral called green-
sand.

   2. The organic remains hitherto discovered are nearly all,
with the exception of one or two species, peculiar to this con
tinent.

   3. The existence of great quantities of lignite, of the remains
of Scolopax, a shore bird, and the position of these beds in New
Jersey, contiguous to the primary boundary or ancient coast, all
indicate that they were deposited in a comparatively shallow
sea, analogous in position to the present extensive line of sound
ings which skirts the coast.

   The obvious shallowness of the portion of the secondary
ocean where these beds were formed, may perhaps help to ex
plain the remarkable discordance alluded to between the Ame
rican and European marine species of this period.

   4. The calcareous masses of Alabama, at least the upper
beds, are probably different in age from the marls and arena
ceous beds of New Jersey.

   5. The marl formation of New Jersey is, perhaps, most nearly
represented by the European greensands. The limestone de
posits of the South, on the other hand, resemble more the upper
members of the cretaceous group ; for example, the formation
of the plateau of Maestricht.

   6. Thus far there is no evidence of the existence of true chalk
in North America. Genuine flints have not yet been found in

any bed.
   7- Volcanic forces, during this period, seem to have been

nearly dormant, which may perhaps assist in accounting for
the absence of the chalk.

   8. The want of accordance, both in organic remains and
mineral character, between these beds and the cretaceous group

fof Europe ; the difficulty of deciding their identity at present
    1834.
66 FOURTH REPORT -- 1834.

for the want of a sufficient knowledge of the structure and su
perposition of our formations ; and, above all, the importance
of pursuing our geology  free from the shackles of a nomencla
ture originally adapted  to another continent, -- render it desi

rable that we reject the terms in use, and appropriate to this
group of formations a name which shall be independent of old
associations, and yet express their position in the geological

series.
          REPORT ON' THE LAWS OF CONTAGION.                                67

Report    onBtyheWSitlaltiae mof  our Knowledge    oFf.Rth.Se .L, aSwfcs,  of Conta
   gion.                                                                   late Phy
                                  Henry, M.D.,

sician to the Manchester Royal Infirmary and Fever- Wards.

The subject of the following pages may perhaps appear, on first
view, not to fall within those boundaries, which have been as

signed by the British Association to the field of its labours. I
hasten therefore to avow, at the outset, that it is no part of my
object to trespass upon the province of practical medicine, or to
treat the topic of contagion in any other light, than in that of a
purely philosophical question. Under this point of view, the in
quiry is open to all, whose education has embraced the principles
of chemical and physical science, and who possess a general ac
quaintance with the laws of the animal economy. Much valu
able information has indeed been already contributed to the
history of contagion by persons of this class ; among whom the
late John Howard, the enlightened and devoted philanthropist,
is an eminent example.
The establishment of sound conclusions on this subject is of
the highest importance, not only to individuals and to small
communities, but to the interests of whole nations. On such

principles alone can wise and salutary measures for obviating the
importation, and checking the spread, of contagious maladies,
be based ; and it is for want of them that legislators and execu

tive governments have enforced regulations, some of which are

nugatory and absurd, and others positively mischievous. The
quarantine laws of every civilized country call, indeed, loudly
for revisal and remodelling ; and this can only be effected by
mutual agreement between different nations. In their present
state, those laws are both inadequate and oppressive. They lay
great stress upon observances that are of no value, and overlook
others that would be really efficacious. They impose grievous
restraints on personal freedom ; fetter our commerce ; abridge
the demand for produce and manufactures ; and, by diminishing
employment over wide and populous districts, increase the suf
ferings attendant on poverty, and give rise to inborn diseases,
even more formidable than those,] against which they are in
tended to act as barriers.
An inquiry into the laws of contagion, it must however be ad
mitted, is beset with many pressing difficulties. Our senses, the
great inlets of our knowledge of the material world, give us no
insight into the properties       of this subtile  agent ; nor do we derive

                                      f2
68 FOURTH REPORT-- 1834.

any assistance from the most refined instruments, or from the

most delicate chemical tests. All that we perceive is a series of
events, often faintly marked, the connexion of which with each
other, even their order as to priority or sequence, can only be de
duced by processes of reasoning, that are open to more than usual

sources of fallacy. In no one instance is the effect of an external
agent upon living animals universally the same, but modified by
peculiarities of structure; by temperament, age, sex, and habit;
and above all, by those imperceptible changes to which the ner
                                                              Even our     mental constitution
vous  hsaybsittesm, --isthepeimrpaegtuinaalltyiolnia,btleh.e  affections,  and the passions, --
and

exercise a powerful sway over our susceptibility to contagious
diseases ; and when such diseases do arise, often direct their

course and determine their issues. The phaenomena of con

tagion, moreover, are in many cases extremely complex, being
owing to a variety of causes which it is far from easy to ana
lyse, and separately to weigh and appreciate. The omission, too,
of a single link in a chain of observations has frequently ren
dered the whole series valueless, as data for accurate reasoning.
Difficult, however, as the investigation is in itself, it has been
rendered still more so by the manner and temper in which it has
been conducted. Every kind of error, that has obstructed the
progress of philosophy, may be exemplified from writers on this
subject. Observers have viewed phaenomena with the desire of
establishing preconceived opinions. Facts have been described
in language so highly coloured, or so mingled with hypotheses,
that it is scarcely possible to discover its legitimate meaning.

All that favours one side of an argument has been strongly in
sisted upon, while adverse evidence has been denied its due au
thority; and the love of truth has been sacrificed to the anxiety
to baffle an adversary by ingenious sophistry. Such at least is
a faithful picture of the greater part of what has been written
on this subject in the spirit of controversy, excited, as it has
generally been, by intemperate discussions of the quarantine
laws. But it would be unjust not to except from this censure
a numerous class of writers on contagious diseases, who have
united an eminent capacity for observing and reasoning, with
perfect singleness of purpose in the pursuit of truth. The names
of Lind, Pringle, Cleghorn, Russell, Blane, Haygarth, Willan,
Currie, Ferriar, and of many others who might be enumerated,
are sufficient pledges for the accuracy of their reports of facts,

and for the soundness of their conclusions. It is to authorities of
this kind (in many instances confirmed, in a few corrected, by my
own observation,) that   IwahmicchhiIefhlyaviendgeibvteend                  for  the materials of
the following pages, to                                                    the   form of proposi
          REPORT OX THE LAWS OF CONTAGION.                                 09

tions or 'general laws'; not that I consider them as entitled to

the weight of settled and invariable principles, but as open to be
modified and amended by the results of further experience.

                                    Laws of Contagion.

I. The animal body, when the seat of certain morbid actions,
is known to elaborate within itself poisons, which are capable of
imparting to healthy individuals the same diseased condition,
and the power of generating similar poisons. These poisons
have been called contagions, from contingo, whence contactus;
or infections, from inficio. A distinction between these terms
hgaicsalbdeeisncuaststieomnps,tedI  by some writers ; but, avoiding etymolo
                                    shall employ them in that general and po
          sIetnisse,cownhsiiscthenrtegwaritdhs   them as synonymous or
puIlaI.r                                        the testimony of the best  nearly so.
                                                                           observers*,
that some contagions (chiefly those of typhus, and its congenera,)

may originate in the animal body when exposed to the action
of certain external causes. Among these causes are confinement
in overheated, close, and ill ventilated places ; scanty or bad
food ; intemperance ; excessive fatigue ; long exposure to cold
and moisture ; and,                                              the whole train of
depressing passions                 among    mental influences,  doubted, however,
                                      and
                                           emotions. It was
by Mr. Howard t whether any of these causes singly be ade
quate to the production of contagious fever ; but, though they
certainly operate more powerfully in conjunction, there is no
reason to disbelieve their separate efficiency.                  For, 1. The
crowding of numbers together without change of air has been
known to occasion low fevers of the most formidable type. Out
of 146 persons, shut up during a whole night of sultry weather
at Calcutta, in a wretched prison called the Black Hole, (a cube
with sides of only 18 feet,) not more than twenty-three survived,
of whom several were affected with low fevers of a typhoid cha
racter, ending in carbuncular eruptions J. 2. Half a century has
scarcely elapsed since our prisons and hospitals were almost
constantly the seats of fevers of the worst character§, generated
within their walls; and though banished from thence by an
improved system of construction and management, yet similar
fevers continue to originate in the crowded and squalid habita
tions of the abject poor. 3. Even among the lower animals, si
milar effects have been produced by the same causes. During a

* Fordyce, Haygarth, Currie, Clark, Howard, Ferriar, Willan, &c.

t On Lazarettos, 4 to, p. 231.
t See Mr. Holwell's interesting Narrative, Annual Register, 1758, p. 278.

§ Well described by Dr. Hunter, Medical Transactions, vol. iii. p. 345.
70 FOURTH REPORT 1834.

long voyage in a ship, the hold of which was densely crammed
with swine and sheep arranged on different sides of the vessel,
Dr. Fordyce observed that both those kinds of animals were at
different times attacked with contagious fevers, the symptoms
varying in the two species, and the disease not spreading from
the one species to the other, nor at all affecting the passengers
III.or crew*.

           Independently of crowding and confinement, contagious
fevers do, however, occasionally arise without any immediate
prototype. The recollection of every medical practitioner must
furnish examples in which simple fevers, arising from cold and
other causes, in persons well fed and well clad, have by neglect
become contagious in their progress ; and if particular examples
of this kind are seldom recorded, it is because of the notoriety
of the general fact. An instance of typhus fever, thus origina
ting spontaneously, is related to have happened to one of the
family  of the late Dr. Jennerf .
        Diseases which break out   in  a  scattered  manner,  where
  IV.
the agency of contagion can neither be traced nor even suspected,
have been called sporadic (from a-nopa;, sparsus). This class
therefore includes all disorders that are not produced by conta
gion ; nor by accidents or obvious injuries ; nor by any cause
affecting numbers of individuals in common.
V. There is an extensive class of acute diseases, which have

never yet been proved to arise sporadically. These, from
the greater distinctness and more uniform succession of their

shsyapmveepcttiohfmiecrse, focrohenavtbaeegenbioetneensrm, ceodonrssidpsepereecdicfiifciacsdiissneefpaeascreatstieo, nasnspd.ecthieesSi.rucchaTuhsaeeryes

siphylis, measles, smallpox, cowpox, hooping-cough, scarla
tina, and a few others.

  VI. In a great proportion of instances, specific diseases may

be traced to communication, either by contact or near proxi
mity, or intermediately, with some person suffering under the

same disease. But it frequently happens that the most search

ing and diligent inquiry fails to trace a specific disease to its
source. We are told that not one in twenty cases admitted into
the Smallpox Hospital in London could be referred to any im

mediate original J. In a few instances, specific diseases have
appeared within boundaries which   might have been supposed to
                                   the Penitentiary at Millbank,
have perfectly excluded them. In
a prisoner was seized with smallpox, notwithstanding his ap

        · First Dissertation on Fever, p. 112.
        t  Baron's Life  of Jenner, p. 106.
        J  Dr. Gregory,  Cholera Gazette, No.  2.
REPORT ON THE LAWS OF CONTAGION'.                                                                                                              71

parently perfect insulation*. But in this and all similar cases,
the probability is much greater that a specific disease, like small
pox, should have been received from a pre-existing source, than
that, contrary to all experience, the poison should have origin
ated afresh. Many instances too are on record, in which the pene
tration of contagious diseases, into situations supposed to be per

fectly isolated, has been traced to intercourse, though forbidden
by the strictest rules, and even by menaced punishment. An
other mode of conveying infection, beside that of direct commu
wniicVlal tIaiIoc.cno,Tuwhnethicfcohornwacillugl srbeieoantpopitnahtraettdo'focutohtneitnaagtpihopeuasrseenqdtuiseeelxa(cs§ee.psxtioxofnns.a.
lkoinwdingnevfaecrtsor: --igin1.atTehsepyonhtaavneeonuesvlye,r'                                                                                et seq.),
                                                                                                                                               specific
                                                                   is strengthened by the fol
                                                                 been met with in any coun
try, when visited for the first time, after having been previously
shut out from intercourse with the civilized world. 2. The hi

storical aeras may be fixed, when many of them first invaded the
countries where they now prevail, and the line of their march

may be distinctly traced outf. 3. Specific diseases have been
known to become extinct for a time in certain situations, and

their revival has been traced unequivocally to a foreign source.
Thus, the smallpox disappeared several times from the island
of Minorca, apparently from having already attacked all who
were liable to it. In one instance the interval extended to se
venteen years ; in another, after having been absent for three
years, its return was clearly traced to the crew of a ship of war
which had arrived from the Levant. Seven similar intermissions
of the same malady are recorded to have happened at Boston in
New England, in three only of which the channel of its reintro-
duction could be discovered. But these three instances render it

much more probable that the poison, causing the disease, should
in the remaining four have been imported anew, than that it
should again have been generated. For though it cannot be

denied that a poison may be again elaborated, by a concurrence
of the same circumstances which originally produced it, yet, in
assigning causes, we must be guided by actual observations, and

not by possible contingencies !.

   * Fact communicated by Dr. Roget.
   t Hawksworth's Voyages, vol. iii. page 56. Siphylis was introduced by the
crews of Bougainville's vessels into the Sandwich Islands, ii. 232. De Pauw,
Recherche* P hilosophiques sur les Americains, tom. i. Robertson's History of
America, book iv.

  I The origin of new specific diseases is a topic too extensive to be entered

upon here. The reader is referred, therefore, to an excellent essay by Dr.
Ferriar, in the first volume of his Medical Histories and Reflections; to the
various publications of Dr. Jenner, John Hunter, Adams; &c.
72 FOURTH REPORT 1834.

   VIII. It may be held as a general principle, that no specific
poison ever gives rise to any other contagious malady, than that
of which it is itself the product. The poison of smallpox never
occasions measles ; nor that of measles smallpox.                                                     It must
however be acknowledged, that the sequent disease is seldom an
exact fac simile of the antecedent, but often differs from
                                                                                               ;                           not

only in degree, but in the absence of one or more of the usual                                                  it,
phenomena, or in the addition of others not commonly ob
served. Scarlatina,                          well known, when communicated to
                  a

                          it

                                 is
numbers from common source, may affect some severely and
others slightly; and the general fever, the eruption, and the af-
rection of the fauces and throat, may exhibit almost infinite va
rieties. In like manner, the mild and distinct smallpox has

often  imparted                    confluent and dangerous sort and the reverse.
       needless                 to multiply examples, because inconstancy of
It   is
                   is

                               a
symptoms          observable, not of contagious disorders only, but
of all others, whether acute or chronic. Our classifications and

nomenclatures of diseases are in fact founded, not on constant

and uniform characters, like those establishing the distinctions
of natural history, but on general features, which are liable to
be qualified by many exceptions, and which present almost in
                  of aspect.
finite varieties  nature of those            processes,     by                                 which  simple fever
                                                                                               a
   IX. Of the                                                                                             aa
becomes contagious in its progress, we are totally ignorant. The
opinion that contagious poison is, in any case, generated by a                                                          a
        (a
               a

                 is
change in the animal fluids analogous to fermentation or to putre
faction, change veiled by Sydenham under the phrase commo
tio sanguinis), inconsistent with general reasoning as well as
with observation. The tendency to putrescence in the solids or
fluids of the animal body, at temperatures favourable to that pro
ocef slsifien,dseoaldonmgatatsert,hat
                                     is  counteracted by    the unde finable principle
                                         principle retains  sufficient energy. During

a  contagious fever, none of those gases are necessarily evolved,

which are the constant products of animal putrefaction. A person
sick of typhus fever, enjoying all the advantages of cleanliness and

fresh air, and emitting no sensible odour, may yet impart fatal
infection. An instance on record, in which person under such
                                         is

circumstances was accompanied, for about half mile, in a
coach, by four individuals, none of whom perceived the slightest
        but all caught the                   infection, and died in
odour,  be remarked also,                    that the odours, which                            consequence*.
                                                                                               arise from per
It may
sons labouring under acute specific diseases, are not similar to

those of common putrefying matter, but are distinct and pe

                                  Fordyce, Dissertation, p. 15.
                                  *

                                                                                            1
           REPORT ON THE LAWS OF CONTAGION'.                                           73

culiar*. When we add to these arguments, that the perversion
of a vital process, such as that of secretion, occasions, in at

least one decided instance (rabies canina), the formation of a
poison, by an organ which commonly secerns a bland and harm
less fluid, the weight of evidence must be allowed greatly to

preponderate in favour of the opinion, that all morbid animal
poisons are the results of vital operations; and that chemical
changes, if concerned at all, are under the control of the vital

principle.

   X. Among contagious poisons, there are some that exist in a
visible and tangible state, generally in that of liquids ; others
are not at all perceptible by our senses, and are known to us
only by their effects. The liquid poisons are efficient, only when
applied beneath the cuticle, or to parts where the cuticle is very
thin, or to the surfaces of mucous membranes ; and if imme

diately and completely washed off, they inflict no injury. The
action of some of those poisons, of siphylis for instance, does
not necessarily extend beyond the part to which they are ap
plied. Other poisons, when inserted or inoculated, act locally
in the first instance, and afterwards give rise to general febrile
excitement, which is necessary to the formation of fresh poison
in the inoculated part, or in the system. After inoculation for
smallpox, the constitutional disturbance is generally well
marked ; in cowpox, often so faintly as to be scarcely distin
           ; yet even in  the latter, some degree of
guishable  be essential   to the perfect state of the             general              fever
seems to                                                         pustulef.
                                                                                          It
is only at this period of full development (called the time of
maturation) that the fluid contents of the pustule, (which in
the cowpox is limpid, in smallpox purulent,) can be depended
upon for producing its appropriate effect. Before maturation,
the fluid is inert ; after that period, it is sometimes effete, and

sometimes produces a modified disease^. All attempts to ex

cite smallpox or cowpox, by inoculating with the blood or
witXhI.anWy hoethnerthaenilmiqaulidfluaindim, ahlavepoibseoenns
                                                                 unsuccessful   §.     state,
                                                                 are kept in a  moist

at temperatures not exceeding those of a warm atmosphere, they
undergo spontaneous changes which materially affect their spe
cific properties. Variolous matter, thus negligently preserved,
has been known to produce a train of symptoms resembling
those of smallpox, but yet giving no security against the return of

   * The odours attending the plague, smallpox, and Asiatic cholera are in

stances.

   t Jenner, Inquiry, &c, 4to, 1798, p. 71.
   X Jenner '8 Further Observations.

    § Darwin's Zoonomia, § xxxiii. 2.

                                                                                               S
74 FOURTH REPORT-- 1834.

that disease*. But the liquid poisons, dried at the lowest tem
perature adequate to that purpose, may be kept in close vessels
unimpaired for an indefinite time, and regain their infectious
properties when moistened with very little water. The mixture
of them, however, with a large proportion of water, renders them
inefficient. Dr. Darwin relates that, in some experiments by
Mr. Power, smallpox matter was found to be infectious after
diffusion through five times its quantity of water ; but that its
dilution might be carried so far as to render it inertf. This is
precisely analogous to what happens with common poisons,
the most virulent of which is disarmed of its noxious power,

whXenII.suOffifciethnetlychdeilmutiecadl. constitution of the liquid contagious
poisons we are entirely ignorant ; nor is it probable that the
knowledge, if we possessed     J, it,     would throw any light on their
mode of action. We are well acquainted with the composition
of many poisons (the prussic and arsenious acids, for example),a
without at all understanding in what way they act so powerfully

XIII.upon the animal system.

              Beside the liquid poisons, requiring contact for their
operation, there another class which are independent of that
mode of communication, and are transmitted to small distances
                      it is
through the atmosphere. Such are those of scarlatina, measles,is

hooping-cough, chicken-pox &c. In few instances diseases
imparted by contact are also caught by emanations or effluvia.
The smallpox,                  well known, may be propagated in both
ways and the plague, certainly infectious at small distances,
has, of late years, been proved to be communicable by inoculaby ;
tion with the matter of the glandular abscesses. Dr. White,
after two unsuccessful attempts to inoculate himself, caught the
plague by the third, and died in three days; and Dr.Valli, in
1803, fell victim to a similarly rash experiment^
            a
   * Jenner's Further Observations, p. 19.p.                                   Zoonomia, u. s.
                               is

                                              ; of

                                                           a
                                                                            a

                                                                  t
                               not inoculable. See Thomson History
§I    Chicken-pox (varicella)                                                  '9
Smallpox, 8vo, 283.                                                                      p.
    See Sir Robert Wilson's History
                                                                                               ; of
                                            the Expedition to Egypt,              257

Wittnian's Travels in Turkey, pp. 516, 518 and Granville in the Pamphleteer,
xxv. About the close of the sixteenth century dispute arose, which has conti
nued almost to the present day, whether the plague be contagious disease or
not. Exclusion from that class has been extended also to typhus, yellow fever,
and scarlatina. Indeed smallpox and measles are the only febrile maladies,
which are admitted by some of the opponents of contagion to be propagated by
   specific poison. All others, affecting numbers at one place and one time, have
a

been        them classed with epidemics.  It needless to reply to the argumentsis

in favour of this doctrine, because they have been already refuted, in man     a

ner that should set the question at rest for ever, by Dr. Roget, in a Report
presented to Parliament in 1825. (See Parliamentary History and Review,
REPORT ON THE LAWS OF CONTAGION.  75

XIV. There is only one form in which ponderable matter is ca
pable of being transmitted invisibly through the atmosphere, viz.
in that of elastic fluids, either permanent at common tempera
tures, or existing as such within a certain range of temperature
and pressure. The former are called gases, the latter vapours ;
but the distinction is one of convenience only, and is not marked
by any well defined boundaries. Contagious poisons, when dif

fused through the atmosphere environing an animal body by
which they are generated, can exist only in the form of vapour.
Like all other vapours they must be governed, as respects their
degree of concentration in a given space, chiefly by the existing

atmospheric temperature.

   XV. Of the chemical constitution of contagious emanations,
we are equally ignorant as of that of the liquid poisons. We
may conclude, however, that they consist of the commonly
known elements of animal matter, and that their diversities de

pend, as in several well known instances of gaseous compounds,
on modifications of the proportions, or even of the molecular ar
rangement of like proportions, of those elements. Thus, the very
same proportions of carbon and hydrogen are known to consti

tute no less than three elastic fluids, each distinguished by pe
culiar mechanical and chemical properties. From the little sta
bility of composition of contagious poisons, evinced by their
being decomposed by temperatures not above 212° Fahr., as well
as, perhaps, by weak chemical agents, it appears that their ele
ments are held together by very feeble affinities.
   The notion, which appears to have originated with Kircher,
that contagious emanations are at all connected with the diffu
sion of animalcula or
                       acari  through the atmosphere, is purely
hypothetical. It has   been   defended, with a singular want of

sound argument, by Nyander, in a dissertation which Linnaeus,
with equal want of judgment, has admitted into the fifth volume

of the Amaenitates Academical. All that can be conceded in
favour of such an hypothesis, is, that the assigned cause is not
impossible ; but not a single valid analogy has hitherto been
advanced to confirm it. On the contrary, the opinion is at vari
ance with all that is known of the diffusion of volatile contagions.

  XVI. We have no decisive evidence, through what channels
contagious emanations escape from the animal body. They may
issue from the whole of its surface ; but it is probable that they
transpire chiefly through that fine membrane, lining the air-
cells of the lungs, which the phaenomena of respiration show to

8vo, published in 1826 by Longman and Co.) It is desirable that this valu

able document should be made accessible to medical and general readers, by
republication in some less voluminous work.
78 FOURTH REPORT -- 1834.

be permeable, in both directions, by gaseous and vaporous fluids.
Through the same membrane, it is probable that contagious
emanations are chiefly admitted into the sanguiferous vessels.
Certain poisons (prussic acid, for instance,) have been traced by
their odour and chemical qualities into the blood*. But as we
have no tests of contagious poisons, it must remain conjectural
that they also are admitted into the blood-vessels, and circu
late with that fluid. Even were that point established, it would
remain to be determined whether they act by producing che
mical changes, or by at once affecting the nervous expansions,

andXVthIrIo.ugThhethtehmeotrhyewghreicaht    nervous centres.  to account      for the
                                             has been framed

spread of contagious emanations, is founded on the same prin
ciple as that assumed to explain the diffusion of aqueous and
other vapours, viz. that a chemical affinity exists between vapours
and atmospheric air, producing a kind of solution analogous to
that of saline bodies in water. But this theory, though inge
niously supportedf, is superseded by the more probable views of
Dr. Dalton, that in all mixtures of elastic fluids, whether gases
or vapours, with each other, chemical affinity has no share in
the effect, but that they maintain their state of equilibrium by

their respective elasticities alone %. In our atmosphere, for ex

ample, the oxygen and nitrogen gases, which are its constant
ingredients, and the carbonic acid and aqueous vapour, which
vary a little in their proportions, are diffused through each other
by their respective elasticities, according to certain mechanical
laws. This is not the fit place for a detail of the evidences, on
which Dr. Dalton originally founded his opinion, nor of the ad
ditional arguments deducible from the experiments of Mr. Gra
ham §. It is sufficient to remark, that the probabilities are
greatly in favour of the new theory, which, by analogy, may be
extended to the contagious vapours. These effluvia, it is pro
bable, are also diffused through the atmosphere, not by a pro
cess of solution, but by the elasticities inherent in them as va
pours; which elasticities are amenable only to variations of
temperature and pressure, and are totally independent of changes
in  XthVe IpIrIo. poTrhteionasctoivf itthye   ingredients of
                                             of contagious    the atmosphere.
                                                              emanations has   been  as

certained to be confined within very moderate distances from

obs·erCvehsr,ist"isoacnt  On Poisons, 8vo, 1829, p. 561.    " Poisons," the same writer
                          on the mucous membrane of the   pulmonary air-cells, with a ra

pidity not surpassed by their direct introduction into a vein." p. 22.
    t Chiefly by Dr. Haygarth. See his Inquiry, and also his Sketch.
    X Manchester Memoirs, vol. v. series i.
    § Transactions of the lloyal Society of Edinburgh, 1832.
REPORT ON THE LAWS OF CONTAGION.                                                         77

their source. As respects the emanations of the plague, this
has been attested by several writers. 1. Dr. Russell, the author
of an excellent History of the Plague, preserved himself from
that disease, during a residence of several years at Aleppo, by
avoiding a nearer approach to the sick than four or five feet *.

Mr. Howard's experience satisfied him that, in a still atmo
sphere, twelve feet was a perfectly safe distance 1\ Assalinitook
no other precaution, than to avoid inhaling the breath of persons
under that disease. 2. Smallpox infection was believed by Dr.
Haygarth, not only from his own experience but from a series
of experiments conducted by Dr. O'Ryan, of Lyons, not to ex
tend beyond half a yard from the patient ; and that of typhus
to be at least as limited%. 3. Scarlatina, when introduced by
a new comer into a school, has generally been observed to spread
first to those associated in the same class, or otherwise, with the

infected person. On these facts is founded the salutary practice
of separating the sick from the healthy, on the first appearance
of a contagious malady ; by    which, in numberless         instances, its
                                                            consequence,
progress has been effectually  stopped. It is a happy
also, of the limited extent of the infectious circle, that in a well

aired apartment, all those soothing and beneficial ministrations,
that do not require a very close approach to the sick, may be
perXfoIrXme.d Itwiisthimliptotlsesibilfe,anyhodwaenvgeerr,  to the attendants.
                                                            to assign, to any   species  of

contagious emanation, distinct and constant boundaries. Even in
each particular instance, these limits are necessarily liable to fre
quent variation. For, 1. The more abundant the production of
contagious effluvia, the wider, cceteris paribus, will be the area
over which they will be diffused. 2. Imperfect ventilation ex
tends the diameter of the infectious circle, and renders the poison
efficient at distances where, by due dilution with atmospheric
air, it would have been perfectly inert. Even the poisonous
gases prepared by chemical processes, it is well known, may, if
largely diluted with atmospheric air, be respired for a certain
time, without even the slightest injury. By availing ourselves
then of the law, which renders a certain state of concentration
essential to the activity of volatile contagions, it is easy to ob
tain complete exemption from their deleterious effects. Abun
ifdant dilution, indeed, effected by well planned and assiduous

ventilation, is the most certain, not the only, means of secu
rity against  contagious emanations,                        as they issue from the sick.
              process of spontaneous                        diffusion is too slow to ac-
  XX. The

   · Russell On the Plague, 4to, 1791, p. 99.

   f On Lazarettos, p. 34 ; and Appendix to that work, p. 31.
   t Inquiry, p. 97; and Sketch of a Plan to exterminate Smallpox, p. 237;
also Letter to Dr. Percival, p. 9.
78 FOURTH REPORT. -- 1834.

count of itself for the spread of contagious emanations, and is ap
plicable chiefly to a quiescent condition of the atmosphere. But
it is known that contagious poisons may be conveyed by the mo
tion of masses of air, which mechanically sweep those effluvia
along with them, in a state consistent with their activity at mo
derate distances. Of this it is sufficient to cite the following,
out of several similar examples --: 1 . At the Old Bailey Sessions
held in London in May 1750, the poison of jail-fever was wafted
by a current of air from a prisoner at the bar, in such a direc
tion as to infect the lord mayor, two of the judges, several of the
barristers, and eight of the Middlesex jury, who all died in con
sequence ; but all the London jury, who sat out of the current,
escaped*. The black assizes at Exeter and Oxford were distin
guished by similar catastrophes. 2. Even in the open atmo
sphere, infection may be propagated to small distances. Dr.
Haygarth relates an instance, the circumstances of which were
strictly investigated, in which a child was infected with small
pox, by passing another sick of that disease on the walls of the
city of Chester, where they are about a yard and a half broadf.
3. Howard and Russell agree, that, in the open air the contagion
of the plague lurks chiefly to leeward; and they ascribe their own
exemption from its effects, when examining patients out of
                              of always standing to the windward of
doors, to  the   precaution  that currents of low degrees of force are
the sick.       is probable
           It
more dangerous vehicles of contagion than strong gales or
storms, since the latter must not only dilute the poisonous va
pours below their point of activity, but rapidly carry them off,
so XdiXluIt.edT,hteorea
                         distance.     to  believe  that  the atmosphere  of an
                         is no reason

extensive district, or even of a city or open street, can be min
gled with such a proportion of animal contagion, as to become
infectious to numbers. The extreme mobility of the particles of
air among each other, and the almost unceasing variations of

temperature at the earth's surface, occasion constant though
sometimes scarcely perceptible currents, which mingle any poi
sonous vapours, that may be abroad, with the general atmospheric

mass. All experience, indeed, as well as general reasoning, is
against the wide diffusion of animal contagion in an active state.
The smallpox, we are assured by Dr. Haygarth, was never known
to spread from house to house, even in the most confined parts
of the city or suburbs of Chester, provided the rule of non-inter

Jcourse with infected families was strictly observed . The plague
does not cross the narrowest streets or alleys at Constantinople,

· Gentleman's Magazine, 1750.                       f Inquiry, pp. 07 and 100.

J Inquiry and Sketch of a Plan, &c.
                    REPORT ON THE LAWS OF CONTAGION.                      79

though not ten feet wide ; and the English residents at that city-
live in perfect security within the walls of the Pera, even while
the plague is raging around them*. Nor has it ever been known in
a single instance that fever hospitals, which were at first violently
opposed, and even indicted at law as dangerous nuisances, have
spread infection to a contiguous house. On the contrary, those
institutions have often cleared their immediate vicinity from
fever, by extinguishing solitary cases, which would otherwise

have multiplied rapidly in the midst of poverty and filth. It is

due to Dr. Haygarth to state, that in the year 1775, he first re
commended the establishment of fever-wards as a practical in
ference from the law of the limited sphere of contagion, of which
his inquiries had furnished many of the best illustrations!. His
proposal was soon afterwards sanctioned by Mr. Howard, who
had learned, by his own experience, the limited sphere of conta
gion, and the great advantages of cleanliness and ventilation in
                         fevers of jails and hospitals.
supXpXreIsIs.inIgt  the  been long known that dry porous  bodies,         when
                    has

exposed to the atmosphere, increase in weight by absorbing

aqueous vapour. In like manner, there can be no doubt that
contagious vapours or emanations are absorbed by porous sub
                               exhaled in an active state. Boyle remarked
tshtaantce"s,   and are again  and civet perfume some bodies, though not
               amber, musk,

brought into contact with them, as the same determinate disease
is communicable to                              not only
contact of one who            sound persons,    without   ibtjy."the   immediate
                              is infected, but                        Contagious

emanations, thus imbibed by porous bodies, have received the
name of fomites§.              They are capable of issuing forth with
                     it
unabated,      and,      is even asserted on good authority,          augmented
activity || .        is  probable, therefore, that they are
                It                                                    emitted in

a state of increased concentration, the porous body having
imbibed those vapours, in preference to the elastic fluids which
constitute the atmosphere. The propagation of contagious poi
sons, in the        state of
numberless          similar   fomites, is illustrated   by the following  among
                                                       contagion of the   plague
                              instances : -- 1. The

of 1665 was conveyed in a box of clothes from London to Eyam,
a small village in Derbyshire, out of whose scanty population
it carried off two hundred and fifty persons **. 2. Smallpox
infection has been transmitted from London to Liverpool, by
means of new apparel made in a room where persons were sick
of that malady. 3. Dr. Hildebrant introduced the poison of scar

f I* Clark '8 Collection of Papers; and Macmichael, Pamphleteer, xxv.
Letter to Dr. Percival.        Boyle's Works, by Shaw, 4to, vol. i.

§ The plural of j'omes, fuel.  || Cullen, Lind, Campbell, Clark, &c.
·· Mead, quoted by Howard On Lazarettos, p. 24.
80 FOURTH REPORT -- 1834.

latina into Podolia, a distance of several hundred miles, by a suit
of clothes, which he had worn at Vienna while attending persons

sick of that disease, and had laid by for several months*. 4. Of
the propagation of a fever of the typhoid character
Sir John Pringle has recorded a striking example.                        by fomites,

                                                                          A number
of old tents, which had been used as bedding by soldiers sick of
low fever, were, on the disembarkation of the troops at Ghent,
sent to be repaired. Twenty-three Flemish workmen were em
ployed in the business, out of whom seventeen took the fever
and died, though they had no personal communication with

XXIII.the troopsf.

              It has not been ascertained how long fomites may
retain their activity ; but there is reason to believe that in arti
cles closely packed they may remain unaltered for several years.
Sennertus relates an instance in which, after a violent plague at
the city of Breslaw, in 1542, the pestilential contagion imbibed
by linen cloth which was kept folded up, issued forth fourteen
years afterwards in another city, and gave rise to a plague, which

caused great devastation J. In Dr. Parr's Medical Dictionary

(art. Contagion), a fact is stated, which, if well authenticated,
would indicate a much longer period for the durability of the con
tagion of
           plague.                   of fomites  is well worthy      of  further  in
  XXIV.      The subject
vestigation. Hitherto we have acquired no information respect
ing the comparative powers of different
                "Teacrhen, icitalis  distinctions into  p"ormouosre  bodies to absorb
contagion.                           true, recognised                 or less suscep
tible articles
                                                        by the quarantine laws ;
but they appear to be
careful observations.  founded       on loose analogies rather than on
                                     extremely probable that different
                       1. It is
porous bodies vary as to their powers of absorbing the same con
tagious emanation, as we know that they differ in their powers

of imbibing a given elastic fluid. 2. In the same porous body,
it is quite conceivable also, that the power of absorbing different
contagions may vary with its states of dryness, temperature,

mechanical aggregation, and other circumstances. A light
and spongy material will probably be found a more active ab
sorbent of contagion, than the same substance when rendered

dense by packing or by manufacturing operations. 3. A low
temperature of the porous body will probably cause it to ab

sorb more contagion than an elevated one ; the dryness of the
solid being supposed equal in both cases. When once im
pregnated also, an increased temperature will probably act in

           · Diet, dp Midecine, Paris, 1822, art. Contagion.
           + Pringle On the Diseases of the Army, part I. ch. iii.

           J Quoted by Boyle, Shaw's Abridgment, vol. i.
            REPORT ON THE LAWS OF CONTAGION.                               81

disengaging fomites,    just as odours lurk  uIntpeisrcceoinvseidsteinnta  garment
till the wearer enters  a warm apartment.                                  with this

opinion, that clothes, which have been in contact with persons
suffering under typhus, sometimes infect those who wash them in
hot water. 4. The distance from the source of contagious effluvia,
at which porous bodies exert their absorbent power, is undeter
mined. There is probably a distance at which their elasticity
may be so increased by dilution, as to be more than equivalent
to the absorbent power of the solid. The more highly the atmo
sphere surrounding the sick is charged with contagious effluvia,
the more abundantly, may it be expected, that those effluvia will
be absorbed by solids. 5. The colours of porous bodies have been
shown, by the experiments of Dr. Stark, to exert a decided influ
ence over their absorption of odours, the dark colours being most
efficient. He has suggested, therefore, by a fair analogy, that
colour may                    the absorption of contagious effluvia*.
            modify   also     authenticated instances, persons convey
   XXV. In  several  well

ing fomites with injurious and even fatal effects to others, havr
themselves escaped infection. Prisoners discharged in theie
usual health from Newgate, at the time when that jail was the
seat of a contagious fever, have infected the keepers of shops and
public-houses in the neighbourhoodf. The same consequences
followed also the liberation of debtors from the jail at Gloucester.
In the memorable instance, too, already cited, the criminals who,
by the fomites lurking in their clothes, spread so fatal a pesti
lence through the court of assize, were in their ordinary state
of health. Previous ablution of their bodies, and the putting on
clean and uninfected clothing, would doubtless have prevented

that extensive disaster.

  XXVI. Of contagious diseases, some attackthe same individual
repeatedly : such are siphilis, typhus, and the plague. The last-
mentioned, however, rarely attacks twice during one season ; for
out of 4400 cases, Dr. Russell observed reinfection to happen
within that interval in 28 only J. Other contagious maladis,
such as smallpox, cowpox, measles, hooping-cough, and scarla
tina, especially the first four, occasion some change in the human
body, which, in a great majority of instances, secures it during
life from a return of the same disorder. Smallpox and cowpox

act as safeguards against each other ; or when (failing this) the
one occurs in a person who has passed through the other, the

* Philosophical Transactions, 1 832.
t Proceedings of the Board of Health at Manchester,  p. 89-- 100.          Clark's

Collection of Papers, p. 10.
t Russell On the Plague, pp. 190, 305.
1834.
                                      G
82 FOURTH REPORT -- 1834.

second in order of sequence, whether smallpox or cowpox, as
sumes a modified, and generally a much milder form*. There
can be little doubt, however, that those two diseases are essen
tially the same. We have no evidence that any one specific dis
ease affords a security against any other, which is distinguished
from it by marked characters and a different succession of sym
ptoms. Neither smallpox nor cowpox gives a durable protection
                                             or scarlatina.
agaXinXstVmII.easIltesis,  hooping-cough,    only that two   contagious  poi
                           in few instances

sons act together upon the human body, producing simultane
ously two distinct maladies. Scarlatina has been known to su
pervene on typhus ; and hence the precaution, in some fever
hospitals, of distinct wards for those two diseases. Smallpox

J;and cowpox may coexistf; so also may cowpox and measles
but smallpox and measles are incompatible at the same time.

Mr. Hunter inoculated for smallpox a child who, as afterwards

appeared, had been previously exposed to the infection of mea
sles. The measles appeared and completed its course, before the
inoculation took effect, after which the smallpox began, and
passed through its usual stages §. Two similar instances are
related by Dr. Darwin, in both of which the smallpox, after
being suspended by the measles, exhibited an unusually mild

chaXraXctVerIII11.. A certain duration of exposure to contagious ema
nations is essential to their full effect. This is precisely analo
gous to what happens with respect to noxious gases, which may
be breathed in mixture with common air, for a few moments,
without injury. On this subject Dr. Haygarth's observations
establish the conclusion, that air weakly impregnated with small
pox or typhus contagion, may be breathed for a long time, and
air strongly charged with either, for a short time, with equal im
punity^. Medical practitioners who have sustained no injury
from visits of ordinary dnration, have been infected after staying
unusually long in the apartments of persons suffering under con

tagious fevers. A very dilute contagion, however, is known to
disorder the health, when it does not produce the whole of the
morbid phenomena in their usual degree and order of suc

cession.

  XXIX. We have no observations sufficiently correct to enable

* For the fact that cowpox is milder after smallpox, see Jenner's Tract, 1 798,

p. 18.                                       J Jenner's Tract, 1799, p. 63.
t Adams On Morbid Poisons, p. 398.
    Hunter  On the Blood, &c, Introduction.               || Zoonomia, §. xxxiii.
f§  Letter  to Dr.Pereiral, p. 41.
                    REPORT ON THE LAWS OF CONTAGION.                      8ii

us to pronounce, of any one disease, at what period it begins to
be infectious. Dr. Russell could not satisfy himself on this point
as to the plague*. The smallpox was believed by Dr. Hay-
garth not to be attended with contagious effluvia until after the
appearance of the eruption, and to diffuse its poison most abun
dantly when the pustules had reached the period of maturationf.
Scarlatina is well known to spread by infection, before the cha

racteristic eruption on the skin shows itself. It is probable
that the infectious period is not always the same for the same
disease, but bears some proportion to the violence of the fever,

and to other circumstances.

  XXX. It has not yet been decided respecting any one disease,

when it ceases to be infectious. Dr. Russell could not determine

when convalescents from the plague ceased to infect others, nor
when the fluid contained in the glandular abscesses was no longer
dangerous. Persons, recovering from smallpox, infect others so
long as the smallest scab is visible on the skin. Convalescents
from scarlatina continue to impart that disease for ten days, or
longer, after all the symptoms have disappeared, and even after
the desquamation of the cuticle J. Hence, in part, the difficulty
of eradicating that malady from any situation where numbers are
subject to it. Asiatic cholera (a disease contagious under cer
tain circumstances,) emits the most active poison in its advanced
stage, or rather in the state of consecutive fever. The infectious
property of the bodies of persons who have died of that disease,
Ifthough testified by several writers §, requires more accurate in
vestigation.        the affirmative should be established, the effect

may still be imputed to a poison formed during life, and only
exhaled after death. Infection from bodies dead of plague is
denied by Howard, Desgenettes, and Wittman, and the infec
                    of yellow              said to terminate with life.
tioXusXpXoIw. eItr  is seldom   fever is  effects of contagious poisons,  either
                               that the

liquid or vaporous, manifest themselves immediately after being
received into the body. Well authenticated instances, however,
are not wanting of the speedy and decided operation of the effluvia
of plague, typhus, smallpox, &c., when in a concentrated form.
But in a great majority of cases, several days or weeks (in the
instance of hydrophobia, even months) have elapsed, before the
morbid phsenomena have appeared. The period differs for dif
                               not always the same for the same poison.
ferent  poisons, and is
        been called the        latent period of infection, the time of in
It has

cubation, &c. The following intervals, though collected from

the best sources, are to be considered merely as approximations.

· Russell, p. 304.                        t Inquiry, P- 53.
t Blackburn, pp. 5, 14, 36.               § Bocker On Cholera.
84- FOURTH REPORT -- 1834.

The plague, according to Dr. Russell, lies dormant about ten
days. Among those inhabitants of Aleppo, who shut themselves
up after having been previously in the way of being infected, no
instance occurred of the appearance of the malady after the ninth
or tenth day.
   In a number of cases of smallpox registered by Dr. Haygarth,
the eruptive fever began on some day between the sixth and
fourteenth after inoculation. Infection by emanations was not
apparent until about two days later*. The latent period of
chickenpox is, on an average, nine or ten daysf. The pustule
of cowpox is distinguishable about the third day after vaccina
tion, and is perfected about the tenthJ.
   The contagion of measles lies dormant for ten or fourteen

days§. In scarlatina the interval does not exceed from two to
six days || . No attempts to inoculate either of those diseases

have yet succeeded^.
    Typhus makes its approaches in so gradual a manner, that it
is scarcely possible to mark distinctly its latent period. The ob
servations of Dr. Haygarth indicate great latitude as to the time
during which typhus infection may remain dormant in the sy

stem, viz. from less than ten days to even three or four weeks **.
The peculiar difficulty, however, of ascertaining the interval,
reduces greatly the value of the testimony of that careful ob
server in this instance.
Asiatic cholera in Prussia, according to Dr. Becker, indicated
a latent period of from four to six days. Observations in this
country tend to establish a similar interval. Among all the ves
sels that performed quarantine at Standgate Creek, not one ex
hibited an            case of cholera after                                      daytf.
            original  a number of persons                 the       seventh      apparently
  XXXII.     When                                         are       exposed,

under precisely the same circumstances, to a                        cIotntiasgtioousindpivoiidsuoanl,

it seldom happens that all are affected by it.
peculiarities influencing the state of the body at the time, that
we are to look for the causes of these varieties. The circum

stances   promoting the            aocftiopnreodfiscpoontsaignigon  have been classed to
gether   under the name
                                                                    causes, which agree
generally in lowering the strength of the body, or depressing
the energy of the mind. Among these may be reckoned fatigue,
want of sleep, extreme cold or heat, crowded or close places,
air tainted by putrefying substances, scanty or bad food, or oc-

· Inquiry.                    f Heberdcn, Comment, cap. 96.                      X Jenner.
§ Heberden, cap. 63.
        The experiments of    Dr.                                   H Blackburn, p. 34
                               in  Francis Home                     inoculation  of measles,
     %  I believe, succeeded       other hands.  on  the                                      have
not,

·· Haygarth's Letter to Dr. Pere.ival.                              ft Cholera Gazette, No. 3.
             RKrORT ON THE LAWS OF CONTAGION.                               85

casional long fasts, excessive evacuations, and intemperate in
dulgences of every sort. The depressing passions of fear, grief,
and anxiety are powerful auxiliaries of contagious poisons. So
also are religious creeds that lead to gloom or despondency, or
that inculcate observances requiring abstinence, or other prac
tices unfavourable to health*. But of all predisposing causes,
poverty, with its attendant physical and moral evils, prepares
the greatest numbers of victims to contagious diseases, and most
widely spreads their destructive ravages.
    It may                             ignesntaenraclesc,onthcalutsinoon,otonebemaaplpalideyd
to           be received,  then, as a
    all our  reasonings    in special
                  AND UNDER ALL CIRCUMSTANCES
IS INVARIABLY     words, that a contagious poison           CONTA
GIOUS ; in other
                                                           is such
ONLY IN A LIMITED AND QUALIFIED SENSE.

  XXXIII. Beside the general causes promoting or counteract
ing the efficiency of contagious poisons, there are others of li
mited operation, affecting chiefly certain individuals or classes of
men. 1. From peculiarities of structure or constitution not at
all understood, some persons enjoy an exemption from particu
lar contagious diseases. Before the preventive powers of cow-
pox were known, it was not unusual to meet with instances in
which persons had entirely escaped the contagion of smallpox,
    ;
though repeatedly exposed to and even after being inoculated
            if
with its virus. By diligent and careful inquiry, Dr. Haygarthit

                         a
                                           ;

                                           it,
                                                      is
was led to estimate the proportion of persons who had reached
the middle age without taking the smallpox, at one in twenty-
                  be admitted that in some instances the excep
three and
tions were only apparent, there will still remain sufficient num
                                                           §. a
ber to establish the general observation. During the prevalence         of
of typhus fever similar proportion of persons has been esti
mated to escapef. 2. Whole tribes and classes of men share in
liability to be infected by some diseases, and in the power of

resisting others. In hot climates the negro resists certain mor
bid poisons which the European unable to withstand. The
Bedouin Arabs, we are told, wear with impunity the cast-off
clothes of persons who have died of plague, without even at
tempting to purify themt but the soldiers of the French army
in Egypt fell victims to the same practice, which all the autho
rity of the General-in-chief could not suppress            3. Different

periods of life modify the predisposition to infectious diseases.
Old persons enjoy an exemption from some contagions, but not

    · Instance in Howard On Lazarettos,                   25, and in the Doctrine Fatalism.
       Letter to Percival, pp. 32, 33.                   Blane's Medical Logic, p. 170, note.
       Larry, Memoires, p. 333.
§t
                                                     t p.
86 FOURTH REPORT -- 1834.

from others ; and infants at the breast show a remarkable in

sensibility to some contagious maladies.

  XXXIV. But of all the circumstances that impart the power of
resisting contagion, the most remarkable is the force of habit. In
this respect, as in many others, we find a close analogy between
ordinary and contagious poisons. Large doses of opium, any one
of which would be fatal to an uninitiated person, are habitually
swallowed several times daily, by those accustomed to its use.

In like manner, medical practitioners and the nurses of the sick
breathe, with impunity,    becionngtaegxipooussed.emaIntawtioanssremtoarwkehdichbythDery.
are in the daily habit of
Ferriar, that the keepers of lodging-houses in Manchester, of the
lowest and filthiest kind, from which typhus fever was seldom
absent, were untouched by the reeking poison, while the new
comers kept up a constant succession of victims to its effects*.
To habit, also, the prisoners, who carried contagious poison in
their clothes into a court of justice, owed their own protection.

  XXXV. The immunity acquired by habit is not, however, in
all cases either permanent or absolute. 1 . Medical practitioners
and nurses, who have long discontinued their avocations, have
again become liable to be infected by febrile contagionf. 2. Per
sons accustomed to breathe without injury atmospheres impreg
nated to a certain extent with contagion, yield to the influence of
stronger doses. The late Dr. Clark, of Newcastle, though ren
dered by constant habit proof against typhus contagion of com
mon strength, caught that disease in a severe form by suddenly
undrawing the bed-curtains of a patient, and thus subjecting him
self to a rush of air more than usually pestilential J. 3. Persons,
who by habit are enabled to resist one kind of infection, do not

on that account enjoy a security against others. Of this, beside
many other instances, we have a striking illustration in the havoc,
which spread so rapidly among the medical practitioners in
Prussia, when Asiatic  cholera first appeared  in that country §.
                       reason to believe that  contagious poisons
  XXXVI. There is
may be received into the system, and may remain in it some time
without manifesting their usual consequences, until some acci
dental cause calls them into full action, and gives birth to the
        trcaoinncouf rsryimnpgtomors.excCitiricnugmsctaaunsceess.ofGtehniserkainlldy
usual                                                                                 have been
called                                                                                speaking,

they are identical with those which, acting upon the body before
exposure to contagion, are termed predisposing causes, the enu

· Ferriar, Medical Histories, vol. i. p. 173.  J Clark's Collection of Papers.
t Haygarth's Letter, pp. 41, 44.
§ Dr. Wagner's "fieport of the Cholera in Prussia," Bib!. Brit., No. 51.
p. 179; and Silliman's American Journal, vol. xxv. p. 179.
REPORT ON THE LAWS OF CONTAGION.                                 87

tmheeraptliaognueoftowh"ichhanitg  is needless to repeat. Dr.  Russell observed
                                   ambiguously" for several    days about per
sons. In this state, and even when there was no such evidence

of being infected, an overheated bath or a sudden impression of
fear, especially when the disease itself was the object, has ex
cited the lurking poison into activity*. The late Dr. Jenner,

after having been much exposed to typhus contagion, experi

enced no ill effect until a long and fatiguing ride on horseback
in extremely cold weather proved an exciting cause of that ma
lady, which he then underwent in its usual formf. Dr. Lind
relates, that out of a number of sailors, all of whom had been in

the way of febrile infection, a part only, who had been permit
ted to go ashore, and while there had been engaged in a debauch,
fell sick of low fevers.

  XXXVII. Among causes influencing the spread of contagious
diseases, climate has been reckoned, using that term in its en

larged sense, and not merely as applied to geographical position.
There can be no doubt that climate modifies the predisposition
of the human body to receive infections. In addition to this ef
fect, varieties of temperature, one of the principal elements
of climate, must necessarily affect the elasticity of vaporous con
tagions, and consequently their diffusibilities. Certain poisons
(those perhaps which appear to have low vaporising points, as
smallpox, influenza, and Asiatic cholera,) exert their powers
alike in the hottest and coldest regions. Other poisons demand
a temperature not below 60° of Fahrenheit's thermometer]:.
Such is that of plague ; while the yellow fever does not exist at
temperatures below 80°, and in North America has been checked
in its spread by a single frosty night. But an increase of tem
perature above a certain point (90°) disarms the contagion of
plague of its power§ ; and typhus (or hospital) fever is unknown
in tropical regions                Measles and scarlatina also are, in such
                     ||.

                                                          is

                                                          I
countries, of very rare occurrence. It not improbable that
the highest temperatures observed in the atmosphere may ac
tually destroy or decompose contagious poisons, as have en
deavoured to prove may be effected, so far as respects those of
cowpox and scarlatina, by temperatures not greatly exceeding

100° Fahr.^f.
   The influence of weather over the spread of contagion has not

been sufficiently examined. So far as respects predisposition,
w I<I J
                       p.
                                    ;

                                    of

                                                           p.

                                                   §f
                                                                                      it
· Howard, 33 and Russell, 303.     Baron's Life ofjenner, p. 106.

Blane, Med. Log., p. 173.          Russell, Antes, &c.
Dr. Hunter, Medical Transactions, vol. iii. p. 355.
Phil. Mug. and .Inn. Philos., November 1831, and January 183'J.
88 FOURTH REPOIIT 1834.

is probably considerable. Its direct effects upon contagious ef
fluvXiaXaXreVIpIeIr.haSpsuchresioslvaablgeenienrtaol
                                                      temperature alone.    that                                    are
                                                      outline of the facts

known respecting contagion, and of the conclusions to which
they lead. No one, however, who has inquired into this sub
ject, can fail to                          with the imperfections of     our know
ledge respecting   be        --strwucitkh  the paucity of observations  --suafnfidciewnittlhy
correct to serve
                   it,
                                                              is
                   as the foundations of general laws,
the number of questions which still remain to be solved*. A long
course of diligent attention to phaenomena, and a persevering
and rigid employment of the inductive logic, will doubtless sup
ply many of these deficiencies. But there another mode of in
terrogating nature, hitherto little used in this department of phi
losophical inquiry, that of experiment, which, in the investi
gations of physiology, has supplied materials for the happiest
generalizations. In exploring the nature and laws of contagion,
experiment has hitherto done very little and extensive regions
of discovery remain to be entered upon, with the aid of thatis ;
powerful light. Difficulties and obstacles may be expected in
the research, but none that, either in number or amount, would
     ;                       an ardent and inventive mind. Let be re
be insuperable                                                         ;
                         by                                                a

                                                                                it
membered, as an incitement, that the inquiry has higher ob
ject than the gratification of speculative curiosity that its ten
dency to the advantage of mankind direct and unquestion
                            success would add
able   and that its        has already achieved            another triumph to     those,
which  philosophy                                           over physical evil,
                                                                                 -- evil,

no doubt, permitted to exist, among other reasons, that may be
                                                                            it

overcome by the vigorous use of those intellectual powers and
faculties, with which man
                                                so preeminently endowed.a is                                    be  in
  XXXIX. This view of                      the subject of contagion would
complete, without noticing class of diseases, which have been

ascribed to causes of much more extensive operation, and are
                                with those of
generally contrasted            and epidemic          ;   contagious   nature. They
are named endemic                                        diseases-)-.   Both agree in
                                                        a
attacking number of individuals but the former are more                                                             li
       1
mited than the latter as to the extent of their diffusion, and may
often be traced to causes of local operation.a

  XL. . Acute or febrile endemics prevail, either constantly or
periodically, over tracts of country of considerable area; or they
may be confined to province, district, city, or street, or a par
                             a                   a

                                                                     ;

                                                                    a

                                                                                a
                                                                                                            is
ofAs these questions arise obviously out of the statements of what already
t·

          it
known, appears unnecessary to collect them into series                 qucerenda.'
Endemic, from m in, and on/io; the people Epidemic, from en ujxm or
among, and the same substantive. The terms, therefore, differ only in the
greater comprehensiveness given by the latter preposition.
REPORT ON THE LAWS OF CONTAGION.  89

ticular part of a street ; or to a single building, as a house, a jail,
or a penitentiary. When spread over an extensive space, several
circumstances have been observed to be favourable to their pro
duction. Such are, situation with respect to the level of the sea,
or that of the surrounding country ; the form of the surface, as
inclined or flat ; the nature of the soil or substrata ; the quantity
and quality of the water ; the state of drainage and cultivation ;
the vicinity of forests, and of swamps and marshes. From
marshy ground exhalations almost constantly ascend, which give
rise to fevers of a peculiar type, called remittents when they oc
casionally abate, and intermittents when the symptoms are ab
sent for distinct intervals. In no instance has a remittent or
intermittent been communicated from one individual to another;
but intermittents are apt to pass into remittents, and the latter
to assume a continued type, when they become decidedly con

tagious.
    2. Marshy exhalations, or miasms, as they may be exclusively

called (to distinguish them from animal contagions), are evolved
most abundantly in hot weather, from ground which is alter

nately moist and dry, or barely covered with water ; not if en
tirely or constantly inundated. Either fresh or sea- water is ade

quate to their production ; but the alternation of the two has,
in certain situations, rendered miasms particularly virulent*.
Marshy ground, however, is not essential ; for the half-dried
 gravelly beds of rivers have been observed to occasion fevers of
 a severe typef. In a few instances newly broken ground is re
 corded to have had the same effect];. In general, miasms occupy
low situations, insomuch that no greater an elevation than the
 upper stories of a house has afforded protection against them.
 But this is not universal, for they have been known to rise to
considerable heights§, though in such instances the form of the
ground indicates that they have been carried up inclined planes,
 by winds blowing from the place of their production. The
 sphere of the activity of marsh miasms surpasses beyond com
 parison that of animal contagions, obviously on account of the
 infinitely greater quantity in which they are generated. The

   * Giorgini (Mem. read to tlie Royal Academy of Sciences in July 1825)
gives a frightful picture of the disease called Malattie tli Caltiva, caused by
marshes of this kind at the foot of the Ligurian Apennines.

   + Ferguson, Edinburgh Transactions, ix. 2~.'i.
   X A remarkable instance is related in one of the latter volumes of Silliman's
American Journal.
   § According to Monfalcon, (ffitt. del Marais, Paris, 1824,) to 1400 or 1600
English feet. See also Ferguson, he. cit.
90 FOURTH REPORT -- 1834.

Pontine marshes, covering an area of eight leagues by two, have
spread their deleterious exhalations, in certain directions of the

wind, to the mouth of the Tiber. In the West Indies miasms

have affected the crews of vessels moored 1500 toises (3200
English yards) from the shore (Monfalcon) ; but this is pro
bably much more than the usual distance.
3. The chemical properties of marsh miasms have been in
vestigated by several writers, but with little other fruit than a
catalogue of negative qualities*. Miasms are not the mere pro
ducts of putrefactionf, and have not necessarily a fetid odour.
Experiment has not demonstrated any departure, in the air over
marshes, from its usual proportions as to oxygen and azotic
gases. Neither carburetted, sulphuretted, or phosphuretted hy
drogen, nor ammonia, has been detected in these exhalations.
The principle on which their peculiar agency depends, still re

mains to be determined by experiment.
   4. There are several points of analogy between the operation of
marsh miasms, and that of contagious poisons, upon the human
body. Both require a certain predisposition in the persons ex
posed to them ; and this susceptibility is imparted by the same
causes. The power of resisting miasms as well as contagions is
acquired by habit, at least to a certain extent. But no continu
ance of usage ever protects persons, who are constantly exposed
to an atmosphere impregnated with exhalations constituting

malaria, from their pernicious effects. In some marshy coun
tries, the perfect and vigorous human form is never seen ; and
a race of men inhabit them who are alike destitute of physical
and mental energy, and who in middle life exhibit all the signs
of old age. Strangers arriving there are doomed to inevitable
destruction ; and all attempts to extend our geographical know
ledge of such regions, however well concerted, have been baffled

byXthLeI.ovEeprwidheemlmicinsg  power of  endemic pestilence.   than  ende
                                are much  more widely diffused

mics ; so widely, indeed, that they have been imputed to certain
conditions of the atmosphere, called epidemic constitutions of the
air. To this term there can be no objection, provided it involve
no hypothesis as to causes. The only legitimate meaning of the
word epidemic is, an acute disease prevailing over the whole or
a large portion of a community, at seasons not in general

   · The most elaborate and able work which I have seen on the subject, is the
RJ.ecSh.erEch. eJsuliaH. is8tovroi.quPeasr,is,Ch1i8m2i3q.ues, et Mldicales sur I'Air Martcagevx, par

  f It has been suggested (Foreign Quarterly Review, No. XXI.) that miasms

are the products of plants of the genus Chara.
REPORT OX THE LAWS OF CONTAGION.  91

marked by regular intervals, and not traced to local causes.
Though the works of writers on epidemics give us no insight
into their causes, yet they contain excellent descriptions of the

phaenomena. Of these the following is a very general outline :

   1. Epidemic diseases do not observe any fixed cycles, nor can
we at all anticipate the periods of their return. Some epidemics,
however, are disposed to prevail most at particular seasons of the
year, as in spring and autumn.

    2. Epidemics seldom spread suddenly over very extensive re
gions, but are observed to make a gradual, often a slow, progress
from one kingdom to another, from province to province, and
even from one locality to another not far remote. The influenza,
(a catarrh, accompanied with extreme debility,) which was epi
demic in England in 1782, was noticed in the East Indies in
October and November 1781 ; at Moscow in December of the
same year; at St. Petersburgh in February 1782 ; in London it

was in full force in May; in France in June and July; and in
Italy in July and August. In the months of August and Sep
tember it prevailed in Portugal and Spain*. The Asiatic cho
lera, it is well known, made even a much more tardy progress

from the East westwards, and did not appear in England until
about fourteen years after it was known in British India.

    3. On the first appearance of epidemics, they are not always
distinguished by those symptoms which mark them in subse
 quent periods. The plague, for instance, for the few weeks after
 its first invasion, is frequently unaccompanied by bubos or car
buncles, which are seldom wanting when it has raged long in any

place.
    4. When diseases of this kind attack any country, they con

tinue to spread until they have reached the period of their most
general prevalence, called their acme, and then decline. These
 periods of commencement, acme, and decline, seldom coincidefor

the same epidemic at different places. Of three localities, for in

 stance, not far remote from each other, the plague, which visited
 England in 1666, was often observed at the same time to be first
 showing itself in the one ; to be at its height in another; and to
 be on the wane in the third. The Asiatic cholera exhibited si
 milar irregularities in this and other countries.

    5. Epidemic diseases of the same name differ materially, both
 as to degree and to symptoms, at different, visitations. The epi
 demic of one year maybe almost universally a mild and tractable
 disease, and that of another extremely severe and dangerous.

     · See a general account of the Influenza, drawn up from the reports of me
 dical practitioners residing in various parts of England, in the Medical Cvm-
 Mioiicatioits, vol. i.
92 FOURTH REPORT 1834.

   6. All the predisposing causes enumerated as promoting the

spread of contagious diseases, contribute also to thatof epidemics.
The latter, also, are propagated by some causes of general ope
ration, such as a scanty harvest, or produce of bad quality ; a
severe winter ; a scarcity of fuel ; an unusually crowded popu
lation j and, on some occasions, harassing and destructive wars.

In some instances, the path has been prepared for one epidemic

by the previous ravages of another : in other examples, the new
epidemic has acquired an ascendency over existing ones, and
has either modified or entirely extinguished them. In 1666 the
plague imparted much of its own form to a low petechial fe
ver prevailing in London, but minor diseases for a while disap
peared. Even the smallpox was superseded by the more power
ful malady.

   7. In what the influence of atmospheric changes in causing or
diffusing epidemics consists, it is impossible, in the present state
of our knowledge, to explain. The most diligent observation has
not connected the prevalence of those maladies with any ascer
tained condition, either physical or chemical, of the general atmo
sphere. With respect to oxygen and nitrogen gases, which consti
tute, at a mean of the barometer and thermometer, 98-J- in 100 of
its volume, an almost perfect uniformity is known to exist. In its
carbonic acid no variation has been discovered by experiment,
that can be supposed to affect the animal ceconomy . The varieties
of proportion in its aqueous vapour are, however, much greater ;
and when accompanied, as they often are, by sudden changes of
temperature, and by disturbances of the electrical equilibrium,
may interrupt the due performance of the bodily functions. But
other causes are necessary to account for those epidemics (cho
lera, for instance,) which defy the influence of climate, seasons,

and of all changes that are objects of meteorological research. It

has been suggested that an ' epidemic constitution ' of the atmo
sphere may depend on the presence of some substance alien to
its ordinary elements. No fact, however, confirms this suppo
sition, if we except an observation of Dr. Prout, that at a period
coinciding with the appearance of cholera in London, the weight
of a given volume of air, making due corrections for differences
of pressure and temperature, seemed to rise to a small but sen
sible amount above the usual standard, and continued above it
during six weeks*. This observation requires, however, to be
frequently and carefully repeated, and extended to other epide
mics, as opportunities occur, before any sound conclusion can
be founded upon it.

    8. Epidemics have been contrasted with contagious diseases,

                                     · Bridgcwatcr Treatise, p. 330.
REPORT ON THE LAWS OF CONTAGION.                                                  93

and supposed to form a distinct and separate class. But it must
not be forgotten that certain specific diseases, which by universal

consent are allowed to be contagious, at times prevail so gene
rally as to be with propriety said to be epidemic. Such are the
smallpox, measles, scarlatina, and hooping-cough. But it is in
conceivable that the specific poison, which in each of these in
stances is the efficient cause of the disease, and which is the
                                     of  vital operations, can
u' ncdoorurubtpetdionproofdauicrt,'  or  by any spontaneous     be generated by any
                                                                changes in inanimate
matter. The only way in which a general condition of the atmo

sphere can be supposed to influence the spread of specific dis
eases is, either by rendering it a better vehicle of their respective
poisons, or by influencing the predisposition of the body to re

ceive them. But if the view which has been taken (§. XVII.) of

the state in which contagions exist in the atmosphere be correct,
tceamn paefrfaetcutretheailrondeif,fubsyionm. odIitfyiisngwetllhekneolawsnti,cihtoywoefvtehro, stehavtapaosucersr,

tainable conditions of the atmosphere, as to heat or cold, mois
ture or dryness, and sudden transitions from the one state to its
opposite, produce in the animal body a predisposition to receive
contagion. The same atmospheric variations may act also as
exciting causes, calling into action contagious poisons already
admitted into the system, but not yet manifested by the usual
phenomena ; and when they operate on numbers, may occasion
those sudden and violent outbursts of epidemic diseases, of which
several examples are on record. Other general influences, in
deed, may prove exciting causes of such outbursts. They have
followed closely, for example, upon seasons of riot and intem
perance, and have spread rapidly in situations where those dis

eases were previously confined to few and scattered individuals.

  It is equally unfavourable to the progress of knowledge to over
estimate what we know, as to shrink from the just appreciation
of difficulties opposed to its further advancement. On the sub
ject of epidemics, they who have inquired the most will be most
ready to admit, that our actual knowledge is bounded by very
narrow limits. But we are not on that account to despair. The
genius of philosophers of our
astonishing truths with respect          own age has            unfolded the      most
                                         to the subtile         agents -- light,  heat,

electricity, and magnetism. Every new conquest, that science
achieves, enlarges our powers over nature ; and we are fully en
titled by the past to hope, that the physical condition of man will
in future be progressively improved by his acquiring a command
over external agents, which have never yet been subjected to his
knowledge and control.
94 FOURTH REPORT -- 1834.

INDEX TO THE SUBJECTS OF THE REPORT ON CONTAGION.

III.§III..       The animal body generates morbid poisons.
                 Causes which, acting on the body, produce those poisons.
                 Originate independently of crowding and confmement.
IV. Sporadic diseases.
V. Specific diseases.
 VI.
VII.             Specific diseases not always traceable.
VIII.IX.                                    do not now originate.

    X.                                      produce only their own kind.

  XI.            CLioqnuviderscioonntaogfiosupsorapdoicisonins.to--spIneocicficuladtisioeans.es.

                 Spontaneous changes in liquid poisons.
XII. Chemical nature of liquid poisons.
XIII.XIV.        Modes of communication of morbid poisons.
                 TThheeirvoclhaetimleicpaoliscoonsnstairteutivoanpouunrsk,nonwont .g--aseNso. t animated.
  XV.            Channels through which vaporous poisons issue.
 XVI.            Emanations spread by diffusion, not by affinity.
XVII.
XVIII.XIX.       Sphere of their activity limited.
                 No constant
   XX.           Emanations   boundaries  causrsriegnnatbsl.e.-- Instances.
                              carried by
XXII.XXI.
XXIII.XXIV.      The general atmosphere never infected.                     -- Fomites.
                 Porous bodies imbibe contagious vapours.
                 Fomites retain their properties durably.
XXV.             Modifications of the power of porous bodies                to absorb fomites.
XXVI.
 XXVII.          Persons convey fomites   without injury to themselves.
XXVIII.          Contagions acting once   only, and oftener.

  XXIX.          Two contagions seldom act at once.
   XXX.
  XXXI.          Contagions require to be applied for a certain time.
XXXXXXIIIII..    Period when diseases begin to be contagious.
XXXIV.
 XXXV.                                    cease to be contagious.
XXXVI.           Periods of latency or incubation.

                 Causes  predisposing  intofetchteionre.c--epNtioanturoafl  contagion.
                         preventing                                         exemptions.
                 Effect of habit in protecting against infection.
                 But habit not an invariable security.
                 Exciting causes.
XXXXXXVVIIIII..
  XXXIX.         Influence of climate and weather.
 XL.             General Remarks. -- Experimental inquiry proposed.
XLI.             Diseases commonly contrasted with the contagious.
                              their production and causes ; miasms.
                 Endemics;    their general phaenomena, and dependence                                     on atmo
                 Epidemics;

                 spheric changes.
                                       J)5

^Ceport on Animal Physiology ; comprising a Review of the
Progress and Present State of Theory, and of our Informa
tion  Wresiplleiactming   the Blood, and          the Powers which  circulate it.
                                                                     F.C.P.S.,
By                       Clark, M.D.,              F.R.C. F.G.S.
late Fellow of Trinity College, and
in the University of Cambridge.                   Professor  of Anatomy

That physiology should have been a science slow and uncertain
in its progress  oibsjescctasr.ceIlty  surprising, when we consider how ex
tensive are its
                                       pretends    to nothing less than to  explain
the phaenomena of living                 nature,  -- the conditions upon      which
they depend, -- the laws by which they are governed. Hence, it
inquires not only into the relations of every component part of
an individual to each other and to the whole, but also, as far as

is possible, into the mutual relations of all living things to each
other, and to the rest of the world. In its useful application,
therefore, it is the foundation of agriculture, of husbandry, of
medicine. Intentions thus ample can only be fulfilled when all
particular sciences have gained their consummation. In earlier
aeras it was included in those ideal assumptions, from which, as
from axioms, it was conceived that all the phenomena of nature
might be deduced ; whilst, in later times, the attempt to treat it
merely as a branch of the prevailing chemical or mechanical phi
losophy of the day favoured its advance in particular directions
only, and with very confined conceptions of its nature and extent ;

as if any two of these sciences had yet ascertained, by means of
their own generalizations, a common proximate cause of their

phenomena ; or, as if particular sciences were something else
than constructions of the intellect to explain phenomena be

tween which similarity has been established.

Physiology, as a positive science, can only be founded in obser
vation and experiment; and the value of these depends, as in other

cases, not less upon the patience, the circumspection, the dispas
sionate, and unprejudiced character of the observer than upon his
scientific and mental elevation. The multitude of physiological
experiments daily accumulated, tells us how easily they may be
made ; the facility with which one set of experiments so frequent
ly supersedes a former, how difficult it is to make experiments of
real value. So numerous, indeed, are the conditions with which

every vital phenomenon is complicated, that the effect may really
be referrible to one or more of these entirely different from that
to which the experimenter has referred it. And, since it is im
96 FOURTH REPORT 1834.

possible to abstract many of the conditions without destroying
life, innumerable modifications of the experiment can alone afford

an approximation to certainty. It is to experiments, in the hands
of able men, where the condition may be suppressed without de
stroying life, that we owe a knowledge of various portions of the
nervous system which is no longer problematical*.
   But we are not to expect too much from experiment.                        It may
point out the variety and the extent of vital reactions, but can
teach us (as Miiller has pointed out,) nothing of the nature or
fundamental cause of these. For here the experiment is not like
one in chemistry, where, the known agent which excites reaction
in another unknown, entering as an element into the effect pro
duced and ascertained, we are able to infer from what is known of

the nature of the one element that which was before unknown of
the nature of the other. But although we are thus necessarily re
stricted to observation of the sequences of the phaenomena, and
of the conditions under which they occur and are modified, yet we
                that they are without
cannot suppose  be hidden from us.          "soFmaelsef)unadsasmeerinttuarl    cause,
however it may                                                               sensum

humanum esse mensuram rerum ; quin contra omnes percep-
tiones, tam sensus, quam mentis, sunt ex analogia hominis, non
ex analogia universit."
When physiological facts have been accumulated by observa
tion, extended through all living things, it is the object of the sci
ence to determine the general relations which subsist amongst
them ; to ascertain what is common to these relations ; and thus,

ascending constantly to more comprehensive generalizations, to
arrive at that cause, least limited by conditions, which holds in
ferior causes in subordination. And this is all that any experi

mental science can pretend to.
On the contrary, however, the first philosophy of nature was
almost entirely deductive. The authors of it persuaded, as ra
tacianounhsaealr--mcrowenaeitroueurselse,dwthhtooaltes--aplelpcpuraolardttesucotoifontnhsteheocfrnetaahtteuiornesamoafreethibnautttelpcliaogurestnieot,nfsairnsodtf

thence deduced systems from assumed principles. The universal

appeared to express itself in particulars. It became the object of
philosophy to begin with the essence of things, and from it to de
rive and explain all their phaenomena. Such a philosophy, deal
ing with abstractions, with primary essences of which the quali
ties and their relations were
ly have any application to a   necessarily  crheyaptiootnhe--tictoalt,hceouwldorsldcaracseit
                               particular

   * Miiller, Introductory Essay to  his Vergleichende  Physiologie des Geticht-
sinncs.

  f Novum Organum, 41.
               REPORT ON ANIMAL PHYSIOLOGY,                                            97

actually exists, however rigidly its conclusions might be de

duced.
A different procedure was forced upon physicians : their very of
fice constrainedthem to
different circumstances,                 o--bsteorvceomthpeasreamdeifvfeitraelntphpehneonmoemneonnau, n--detor

separate what was common and essential from that which was
merely contingent and partial. Thus was established a new prin
ciple of explanation, a principle little agreeing, perhaps, with
that deduced in the former way. As observation and experiment
extended the boundaries of this inductive knowledge of causes, it

continually encroached more and more upon the limits of hypo
thetical belief. And the principles which were thus established,
                                                                                       of the phe
being founded   in realities,             were  dreeraivlleyd.theItexhparsesbseieonn,  however, by
nomena from    which they                were

slow and gradual steps that men have become willing to abstain
from assuming, as a privilege of the understanding, the power of
creating that spontaneously which can only be supplied by the long
and patient contemplation of nature. The two systems have been,
more or less, in conflict from the earliest to the present times.
Hippocrates was the first, whose writings have come down to
us, who made experience the interpreter of nature. He collected
a rich treasure of observations, the accumulated result of his own

labours and of those of his family during 300 years. They relate
tdoititohnesinovf elisfeti,g--atvioizn.  of the effect of changes in the external       con
                                         air, warmth, moisture, food, -- upon its      phe
nomena in man. On the other hand, his ideas of matter were
founded on the speculations of the Pythagorean school. He taught
that the four elements, variously combined, produced the four
cardinal humours, and these again the different organs of the body.

A vital principle, or principle of motion, $uo-ij , or evopfLiiv, was
superadded, depending upon innate heat, its manifestations
being excited by external things, &c. We see not how the theory
has its application. Though Hippocrates did not, with many of
the ancients, suppose that the vital phenomena may be explained
by the properties of matter alone, but referred them to a prin
ciple of life acting under external conditions ; yet his assumed
properties of living matter are nowhere verified, nor the altera
tions asserted to be produced in such properties by alterations in
the conditions of life in any way established.
   Aristotle far excelled his predecessors in extending natural sci
ence by observation, and may be considered as the founder of com
parative anatomy and zoology. His anatomical descriptions of
the elephant and the whale have merited the eulogy of Camper.
Those portions of his works in which he records his observations
of the mental faculties of animals, and compares them with those
                                                h
1834.
98 FOURTH RE FORT-- 1834.

of man, are particularly valuable. These faculties he connected
essentially with the organic body in which they are observed, and
referred them to a principle entirely different from what was then
considered elementary matter, which was the cause of all the phae-
nomena observed in living bodies, and which controlled the quali
ties of matter to its own destined purposes. On observing the
modes in which this principle manifests itself, he distinguished
them logically as faculties : the nutritive, the sensitive, the cogi
tative, the motive. He then reasons on these logical distinctions

as if they were real independent existences ; and inquires whether
they may not exist in different and in the same bodies as such.
His conclusion is, that three of these faculties are faculties of one

and the same real existence, wherever they are observed ; but that
the fourth, the cogitative faculty, or rational soul, has a real and
independent existence. Thus he denned living bodies to be those
which contain within themselves the cause of their own motion.

But, far from supposing, as others have done, that this cause of
motion  can move itself, he
causes  of its motions are    expressly states that  t--heinfunadasumpernetmael
                             to be found elsewhere

animating principle, $u<rij ; and asserted it to be the object of phi
laorseofpohuyr,t--o athsecemrtaaitnertihael,mt.heThfoersmeadl,eltehgeatmedovpinogw,ertsh,e
                                                                                            he contends,
                                                                                            final causes.

The unknown cause of volition and the mental faculties he di
stinguished as the rational soul; theunknown cause that produces
and sustains the body, as the organic instrument of the former
to effect its manifestations, he called the sentient soul*. Thus,

primary matter (uA>j irpa>r>], an abstraction,) is utterly devoid of
properties ; it receives from slSo; all the shapes and powers
which it possesses: and so are formed the various bodies observ
Ifable in the universe with all their allotted qualities and energies.

       we reflect on this theory of Aristotle, and divest it of its
scholastic form, we shall find that its generalizations do not very
materially differ from those which have, after strict observation
in modern times, been presumed to be the most just, and are now
                                                  peculiar vital properties
the axioms   of physiological   science :  viz.  a cause of living motions
inherent in  peculiar material   textures
                                           :--

operating, by means of these textures, according to fixed laws :
and phenomena so remarkably distinguished as to lead to their
division into those of animal and of organic life, and indicative of
powers directed to a purpose which, in the first instance, is the
preservation of the body in which they are manifested.
  The Alexandrian school, founded by the Ptolemies, can scarcely
be considered as having made an adequate scientific return. What

             · Barclay On Life and Organization.
REPORT ON ANIMAL PHYSIOLOGY.         99

was valuable in the doctrines which they had adopted from the
philosophers of Greece and Ionia, became obscure and vitiated
by the additions of sophists ; and experiment and anatomy, which
Ihad once been so highly cultivated by Erasistratus and Hero-

philus, fell nearly into disuse. pass over, therefore, the vaunted
restoration of the Hippocratic method by Serapion, the pupil of
Herophilus, in the empiric school    ewxpheicrihencreej.ectIedparsesaosovneirn, galsaol,
together, and affected to rely upon
the methodic school of Asclepiades, which attributed, after De-
mocritus, all natural phaenomena to the fortuitous concourse of
atoms, and the existence of bodies to the conjunction of these in
a certain form, and their functions to the mechanical aggregation
and separation of the same. Their doctrines have thrown no
light on our science. Each of these schools, and others like them,
had credit for a time ; because, as they arose, men hoped to re
pose in them, wearied with balancing theories which, being
founded on no extensive induction, and few just analogies, were
not unfrequently at the same time false generalizations of the
scanty instances upon which they were raised, and therefore ne

cessarily contradictory.
The school founded by Galen has a just claim to the title of
eclectic, which had been assumed by another ; for its doctrines
were a mixture of the philosophy of Plato, of the physics and
logic of Aristotle, and of the practical knowledge of Hippocrates.
He perceived the objection to Aristotle's theory, that it included
under a generic term the organic functions of plants and animals,
together with their manifestations of sense and intelligence*. He
therefore proposed another arrangement of the phaenomena of life,
which deserves to be recorded, in as much as it contains the germ
of all those different classifications of the functions which have

prevailed in modern times. It is founded on the essential differ
ence of the functions : first, that some are constantly necessary
for the support of life, and can never be suspended ; secondly,
that some are accompanied by consciousness, and are subject to
the will. The vital functions are those which cannot be inter
rupted without inducing death ; the animal, those which are
perceived, and for the most part voluntary ; the natural, those
which proceed irresistibly, and without the consciousness of the
individual. These logical abstractions gave rise, unfortunately,
to the invention of corresponding imaginary principles as their
cause. Galen considered the heart, the liver, the brain to be re
spectively the centres of these principles, -- the occult powers dis
tributing their influences in proportion to the elementary qualities
of those centres from which they emanated. He recognised, with

h2· Thompson's Life of Ciillen.
100 FOURTH REPORT-- 1834.

Aristotle, four elements ; and deduced, from the various propor
tions and mixtures of these, the elementary particles of the frame ;
and secondary qualities, or cardinal humours founded on the
greater or less prevalence of one or other of the elementary princi
ples, not greatly differing in this respect from Hippocrates. Ac
cording to Galen, Nature presides over the vegetative, and the
soul over the voluntive faculties*.

   The theory of Galen prevailed through many successive cen
turies, its unestablished and mystical parts prevailing more or
less over those which were founded on experience and reason, ac
cording to the degree of light and the character of the teachers
during that long lapse of time so much disfigured by ignorance

and barbarism.

   At length, in the seventeenth century, Harvey's great dis
covery of the circulation of the blood gave an importance to ana
tomical inquiry which the successive and valuable contributions
it had hitherto received had failed to bestow ; whilst the dis
coveries of Hooke and of Boyle in pneumatic chemistry turned
men's minds to study with increased ardour the minute details
of every function, and to apply to the solution of the problem of
life all those analogies which the advance of science in every di
rection so liberally afforded. Hence arose the chemical and the
mathematical schools of physiology to eminence. The first in
cludes the names of Van Helmont, Sylvius, Willis, John Mayo,
Croone, Helvetius. Its insufficiency was exposed by Boerhaave,
Hoffmann, and Pitcairne, and in this country practically by Sy

denham.
    The mathematical school of physiology gained a better recep

tion. Its doctrines, recommended by the prevalence of the atomic
theory of Descartes, gave the same direction to physiology and
medicine with that in which science was principally advancing
under the auspices of the Florentine Academy. The philosophy
of Descartes appeared peculiarly applicable to such investiga
tions, since no reason apparently could be assigned which should
render that law inapplicable to organic bodies which referred all
changes in matter generally to the figure and motion of the ulti
mate particles of which they were composed f. Hence we find
the followers of Descartes representing in their works, the mathe
matical forms of the ultimate particles, of which they supposed
the various organs to be composed, as figures for the application
of mathematical reasoning. The most distinguished disciple of
this school was Borelli. He united to all the anatomical infor
mation of the day a depth of mathematical knowledge which
enabled him, in appearance, to apply its reasonings and its results

 Thompson's Life of Cullen.  f Ibid.
REPORT ON ANIMAL PUYSIOLOGT.  101

to explain the action of the organic machine. Thus, he submitted
muscular motion to calculation on the principle of the lever ; ex
plained the action of the heart and the motion of the blood upon
hydraulic principles ; and accounted for the secretions from the
various diameters of the vessels. The proximate cause of mus
cular motion he asserted to be the rush of nervous fluid from the
brain upon the muscular fibre. Bellini and Baglivi espoused the
same theory, and extended its application by their writings ; but,

as if internally aware of its insufficiency, and proving that they
merely reposed in it as that which was least objectionable, they

laboured to separate the theory from the practice of medicine.
Thus Baglivi was in practice a follower of Hippocrates and of
Sydenham. John Bernouilli was a celebrated disciple of this
school. He considered the elementary geometry of the Italians
insufficient in its application to the animal body, in as much as
this represents neither line nor plane either in itself or in the ulti
mate particles into which it can be resolved. Hence he had re
course to the calculus lately invented by Newton and Leibnitz
and the theory of curves. His theory of muscular motion gained
great celebrity, as well as his application of the analysis to de
termine the decrement of the body in consequence of the various
transpirations and secretions. Another branch of the mathemati
cal school was founded on the Newtonian theory of attraction,
and had for its supporters in this country Keill, the Robinsons,

Wintringham, and Meade.
    These two schools, as may be well supposed, did not add very

much directly to the science as a whole. But they prepared the
way, each advancing it according to its own partial views. The
intimate structure of parts and their connexions were sedulously
ascertained by dissection, by the microscope, by chemical ana
lysis, in order to ascertain the data upon which chemical or mathe
matical constructions were to be founded. It is not unreasonable
to attribute to the hypothesis of Willis and of Vieussens, which
ascribed the cause of all the sympathies so remarkable in the
human body to the physical connexion of parts by means of
nerves, that great perfection which the anatomy of the nervous
system attained in their hands.

   The followers of the chemical and mathematical schools either
overlooked the necessity of having recourse to a vital cause for
the operations they attempted to explain, or they had recourse to
an animating principle as presiding over them. Hence arose what
has been termed the dynamic school of physiology. In the sy
stem of Stahl the soul not only produces and forms the body, but
maintains it in the performance of every voluntary and involun
tary act. Those motions, even, which he allowed to exist exclu
102 FOURTH REPORT -- 1834.

sive  of muscular    motion,    which exemplify   ttohnemicsmelovteiosnsb,y--tetnhsoisoen,
and   relaxation of  parts,and   which he called

also, he considered as effects of the soul's power. He rejected
the laws of physics or of chemistry, and the discoveries of ana

tomy, as throwing the least light upon the fundamental processes
by which the corporeal manifestations are effected. He considered
that the soul has no seat in any particular part, but that it is co
extensive with the body itself; that it perceives in the organs of
sense, and operates in the muscles, independently of any con
nexion with the brain*. Had not Stahl failed to distinguish be
                                of  hthisosveitaolrgparninsciwplhei,chacict ohradsinfgorams eidt,e--x
tween the manifestations        of
emplifies itself by means
had he not described it as the ' rational soul', -- his system, con

fupierpmrotineedswhibniychhesrueitbnswteoiqnuuteldhnetthseoenbvesheraarvlvaettisiobsneueens,af--soutncoodeutdlhd,e--scgatehrncaeetrlayolf   principle
        censured. It                                                                                                                       vital pro
        whom I have
                                                                                                                                           have been

justly                 was received in  a modified form by                                                                                 many of
                      instanced (from   the mode in which                                                                                  they ap
those
plied it,) as disciples of other schools. In England it was de
fended by Bryan Robinson, and by Meade, and gained much ce
lebrity from the writings of Hartley, who assumed its principle

to explain the association of ideas. It was received also, in a
modified shape, by. Sauvages in France, by Bonnet in Switzer
land, by Whytt in Edinburgh. The latter taught that the soul
is the primary cause of all the motions observable in the body.
These he divided into three kinds : natural motions, depending
upon a gentle and equable supply of nervous influence (of which
the tension of the sphincters and the general tone of parts are
instances), and proceeding without the interference of the will or
of stimuli ; involuntary, excitable by stimuli affecting the
nerves (and he attempts to show that in all motions produced by
stimuli, whether in the muscles of the limbs or of the viscera,
the soul acts of necessity) ; voluntary motions, under the im
mediate influence of the soulf. James Johnstone greatly modi
fied this theory in England, but his opinions were not received
by his own countrymen. He also assumed a vital principle to
effect that which mechanical or chemical powers were obviously
unable to perform. He placed its principal seat in the brain,

thence to be propagated by the nerves, and pointed out an office

of the ganglia, (which, indeed, had been hinted at by Winslow
and Le Cat,) viz., that those organs which are supplied with
nerves from the ganglia, performing their motions independently
of the will, the ganglia are to be considered as so many subsidiary

        · Thompson, op. cit.

        f Whytt On the Vital and Involuntary Motions, passim.
REPORT ON ANIMAL PHYSIOLOGY.  103

 brains, which continually supply the parts to which they distri
 bute their nerves with new impulses and fresh activity, without
immediate dependence upon the brain ; and that hence it is that
the vital functions are continued when the influence of the brain
is suspended, as in sleep or in paralysis. These opinions of
Johnstone respecting the ganglia were the foundation of that
hypothesis respecting the nerves of organic life which represents
them as a system distinct from the cerebral system, and which,
more fully developed by Bichat and by Reil, was pretty gene
rally received from them by physiologists, until it was shaken by
the discoveries of Le Gallois and Wilson Philip.

    In this way the physical and dynamic theories came to be vari
ously combined. Their union gained its greatest perfection under
Hoffmann and under Boerhaave, who insisted upon the primary
influence of the nervous system in modifying and regulating all
the organic functions, whether performed chemically or mechani
cally. Thus nervous power came to be considered as nearly
equivalent to the anima of Stahl. But Stahl's system was not
improved by the change; for nervous power, a manifestation of
the vital energy by means of the peculiar matter of the nervous
system which that energy has produced, and of which it is but a
partial effect, cannot properly represent the entire cause; and it
affords no explanation of the organic life of plants. For the vital
principle appears to manifest its several activities by means of
the organs which it has produced : and Stahl's error seems to
have been that he connected its vegetative processes, which are
defined and necessitated, with those of consciousness and intel
ligence, which are free, and are developed only with the develop
ment of the brain*.

   The age of Haller, at which we have at length arrived, is the
epoch from which modern physiology takes its date. The great
object which that eminent person endeavoured to achieve, was
to discover, experimentally, the conditions and the laws which
govern those vital phaenomena which the assumption neither of
mechanical nor of chemical forces had been able to explain, and
thus to render physiology as certain as other physical sciences.
For this purpose he excluded those metaphysical subtleties by
which his predecessors had so frequently veiled ignorance ; ex
cluded also mathematical and chemical science in all cases in
which it was impossible to ascertain the elements upon which
their application could be founded. He was willing, as he him
self says, to confess himself ignorant of the manner in which the
soul and body are united, and was content to proceed no further
than those discoverable laws which the Creator has himself pre-

                                        · Miillcr, Physiologic
104 FOURTH REPORT 1834.

scribed, without inventing others unwarranted by experience.
On this principle he instituted innumerable experiments to dis
cover and illustrate the properties of the vital powers. He proved
the existence of a property in muscle, to which he restricted the
term irritability , which is only called into action by means of
stimuli, which affects a much greater vivacity of motion than
mere elasticity (a property of dead matter), the motions also con
sisting in alternate oscillations, with contraction, swelling, and
wrinkling of the fibre, followed by extension, relaxation, and
elongation of the same. He further attributed to the muscles a
nervous power, distributed to them from the brain by means of
the nerves, as a necessary condition of their irritability *, but
which entirely differs from it. He concluded from his experi
ments, as detailed in his earlier works, that the following parts
are destitute of irritability and nervous power : periosteum, peri
toneum, pleura, ligament, tendon, articular capsules, the cornea,
parenchyma of the viscera. In these tissues he admitted a force
analogous to elasticity, inherent in their organic texture, which
solicits them to contract slowly when divided, when exposed to
cold, &c., and which only abandons them when entirely disorgan
ized. He proved that sensibility is inherent in the nerves, but
that they are destitute of irritability. He denied that irritability
could be imparted to the muscles by the nerves, because, seeing
that a nerve,on being stimulated, may excite motion in the muscle
to which it passes, but offers not the slightest motion itself, it is
 impossible to suppose they should be the source of that to others
 which they never possessed themselves ; and, more particularly,
 because he perceived that the excitement of muscles through
 nerves is a phaenomenon not true of all, but only of certain,
 muscles.

    He proved, universally, that irritability resides in all parts
 that have muscular fibre ; that this power differs in intensity
 and permanence in various parts ; that these qualities are most
 observable in the heart, more in the left ventricle than the
 right ; that next in order come the intestines, the diaphragm,
 the voluntary muscles. From reiterated experiments he concluded
 that the heart and other involuntary muscles are not excited to
 contract by stimulating the nerves with which they are supplied,
 but that they require specific stimuli : thus, that the blood is to
 the heart what the will is to the voluntary muscles.

   · Si insita   eonim organorum (cordis, intestinorum, &c.) vis     est, cur accipiunt
nervos? Ii,     nisi voluntntis impcria afi'erunl, quid agunt uliud  ? Primd sensum
afl'crunt, qui absque nervis nullus est. Adferunt etiam ex cerebro efficacia im
peria non voluntatis,    sed legum,
eertos stinrulos certos  nasci motus.  c--orEpkomri .anPihmta/sto.,  scriptarum, quae  volunt,  ad
                                                                     tom. iv. p. 516.

i
REPORT ON ANIMAL PHYSIOLOGY.                                                       105

In this way Haller restricted the vital powers to two, -- sensi
bility and irritability ; the one exhibited in the brain and nerves,
the other in muscular fibre. His doctrine was vehemently op
posed by Whytt, De Haen, Verschuir ; and strenuously de
fended by himself, by Bonnet, and by Fontana. It was seen that
many parts in the animal body to which neither irritability nor
sensibility, in Haller's sense, could be extended, were not the
less alive. Thus during the numerous controversies which arose,
errors on each side were detected ; materials for more extended

views were accumulated ; experiments were infinitely multiplied
and eagerly criticised ; the excitability of various tissues, to which
Haller had denied that quality, because he had not called it into
action by an appropriate stimulus, was established on the one
hand, and on the other the mistake of confounding nervous in
fluence with sensibility was made apparent. Thus the more pro
bable it became that irritability and innervation are separate
powers, so did it follow the more necessarily that every different
part should have its own excitability and its own degree of ner
vous power, and hence its own peculiar mode of life,-- an opi
nion announced by Bordeu, Barthez, Blumenbach *. Indepen
dently of these expressions of vital energy in the various tissues,
these physiologists admitted a fundamental power, which they
termed vitality, or vis vilce, of which the different degrees of

excitability and sensibility were considered merely as modes,
according to the organs in which the vital energy operated. But

the analogies thus assumed between the phenomena were not
established by any proof ; the modifications of the original power
were not accounted for ; and this theory, apparently philosophic,
has no firm foundation when its partisans would represent vitality,
or oxygen, or galvanism, as a proximate cause of all the pheno
                                                          gravity does in deadf.
meInta,mriegshitdihnagveinbeleivninfgoremseaettnerthaast  this analytical mode of  treat
ing the living organism, -- this isolation of powers which had

   · They had all been anticipated by F. Glisson, who was President of the
College of Physicians in 1677: but the opinions of a man who was a century in
advance of the age in which he lived, and which were obscured by metaphysical
subtleties and scholastic language, had no great influence upon those who were
engaged with mathematical or chemical theories of life. He proved the exist
ence of a peculiar quality of living bodies, which he first named Irritability;
distinguished between perception and sensation, and adduced as instances of
perception without sensation, the contraction under stimulation of the heart and
muscles when separated from the body ; insisted that it was only through this
natural perception and sensation, and not immediately, that the animal appetite
on the one hand, and the mind on the other, puts the innate irritability in action,
and so produces all motions, which are either natural and vital, or sensitive.

   f Thompson's Life of Cullen.
106 FOURTH REPORT 1834.

been intended by their concurrent acts to produce the phaeno
mena of life, could scarcely lead to the detection of that control
ing cause which forced the whole to conspire to a common pur

pose. It became necessary, therefore, to consider the subject
under a different aspect j to contemplate living bodies in their
approach towards the possession of those powers which they ex
hibit when their organs are formed. The means for this have
been supplied by the labours, extended through a long lapse of
time, of Harvey, of Malpighi, of the Hunters, of G. F. Wolff, of
Prevost and Dumas, of Meckel, of Tiedemann, of Serres, of G.

de St. Hilaire, of Von Baer. The earliest examinations that

can be made of plants or of animals present them as consisting
of a minute globule of fluid, or a minute disc of slightly albumi
nous matter, i. e. under aspects not distinguishable in different
future genera or species, as to properties or forms of their matter,
by any tests which we possess. In the near neighbourhood of
the disc is placed, in animals, a quantity of nutritive substance,
by means of which it is destined to work. The effects, when
produced, are definite for each species ; but none occur except
under certain conditions. These conditions are, a due degree of
moisture, of air, and of, warmth. When they are supplied, the
         Ictapisabelexciotef db,eianngd               the matter in its neighbour
disc is                                  affected by  The consequence of the re
hood.
                                         it reacts.

action is a gradual expansion of the disc to surround the nutrient
matter; a separation of it into different superposed portions,
which come into view; and a gradual appropriation of the nutrient
matter. Upon the external portion of the disc, the first trace of
the nervous system is observed ; upon the internal portion, that
of the intestinal canal ; intermediate between them, that of the
vascular system. Though at first simple, these objects have still
a certain magnitude, and the             blaytevregmeotaretiocno. m"pleTxhefofrimrsattitorancse
                                                                                                 are
seen to arise from them as if                                                                     of

the nervous system is not merely that of the spinal cord or of
the ganglionic string, but is the potential whole of that system,
of the brain and all its appendages. The first trace of the ab
dominal canal is not merely the rudiment of that canal, but of
                                                      which may be
the whole  glandular apparatus also,                  the observed  seen gradually
to spring                                                           process of de
           from it*." And thus is
velopment altogether contradictory of the theory of Haller and
of Bonnet, which represents each organ as absolutely existing in
the germ, though in a miniature form. That the power which
effects these changes, and thus controls the disposition of or
ganic molecules, resides in the disc, is ascertained from the facts,

           * Midler's Physiology, vol. i. p. 20 et scq.
          REPORT ON ANIMAL PHYSIOLOGY.                                                    107

that ova belonging to species the most different are all develop
ed, according to their kinds, under similar external conditions,
and that ova of the same species are true to their kinds under
vciodnudailtsio. nsIfwwhiechcaallrethnisotpaobwseorluvteiltyalitthye                  two indi
                                                                       same for any  writers, or
                                                                      with modern

the anima with Stahl, these words can teach us nothing physio
logically, unless we ascertain the law by which it operates : how
ever we may see that the final cause of its operation is plainly
in every case the production of those numerous bodies, definite
with respect to families, genera, and species, which it develops
for its own manifestations in each. Our eyes inform us that
these bodies arise by means of the assimilative process, and
that the original power exhibits its faculties by means of the
         wthhiechvitiat lhpaoswperroduiscetdhist,h--rotuhgaht  this                  Our idea
organs                                                         it is  process.        with the
then of                                                                connected

matter of the germ in the act of its formation, and resides in it
as the potential whole, or sufficient cause, of the entire future

organism ; that in consequence of the excitability of the or
ganic matter of the germ, imparted to it in the same act of its
formation, the expansion of the germ into portions or members
occurs by the visible process of assimilation or nutrition, each
portion thus acquiring its own excitability and its own reactive
energy, which are but partial manifestations of the original
power ; and that in proportion as each part is developed, new
internal conditions are introduced, in consequence of the new
formation, which affect all that previously existed, by modifying
the assimilative process in all. The phases of this process are
          dtehfeinepdurpfoosreedacehffsepcet --cieass,
strictly                                                and the subsidiary means neces
sary for                                                in the various forms of the re

spiratory organ in  the  feoxettealrnsatalteairo--f tahree            same individual to  mode
rate the condition   of                                               amongst the most     beau

tiful instances of provision for a definite end.
This formative act, this process of assimilation or nutrition,
which is thus performed by animals and plants, and has a rela
tion not only to the present, but the future also, appears to be
the determination of a power acting according to Reason ; and
hence it must have been  that Stahl referred it'to                    ctohnesrcaiotuiosnneasl ss,ou--l.
But, seeing that reason   cannot exist without
                                                        only by means of the
a faculty which manifests itself                        the act of assimilation,     --brsaeieni,nga
late product of this very power by
also that the effect may be modified, within limits, (as in cases
of monstrosity,) when the conditions are altered, we rather con
                    th"atViet gpertoacteivesdes         from a power acting accord
clude with Harvey                                       operationes potius videntur
ing to fixed laws.
108 FOURTH REPORT 1834.

arte, electione et providentia institui, quatn animse rationalis
mentisve actiones ; idque etiam in homine perfectissimo."

   A peculiar matter is necessary for the manifestation of vital
phenomena : this matter is called organic. It is not the cause
of life, but rather is its act ; a production by means of the assi
milative process, for the exemplification of the allotted faculties.

The faculty is imperfectly manifested if the organ be imper
fectly formed : the organ and its energy both vary with varia
tions in the nutritive process*.
Hence those subordinate expressions of vital force, called ner
vous power, force of secretion, &c., cannot be considered as di
stinct and independent powers. They are produced, or evidenced,
with their organs, by the force of assimilation, and are main
tained by the same. They depend upon it for their manifesta

tion and their due support f.
Vital power imparted to organic matter (which is itself the
product of the living power of the parents), and exemplifying
its faculties by means of the organs which it has developed
through the force of nutrition, seems to be the last step to which
              and induction has hitherto led                      us. The  induction   is
observation                                                       process  be altered  in
verified by  observation. If the assimilative
any organ, the expression of excitability and of vital reaction
peculiar to that organ is altered in the same degree.
There are then in living bodies as many species of excitability
and as many modes of reaction as there are tissues. Every one
of these has its own mode of                        bot"h,Wwhhaitcehveirs            into action
                                                                            called  stimuli may
by   --itswohwenthearpperxotperrinatael,  stimuli.  light, warmth,         these
be,                                       as air,                          food ;   hourmoinutres,rn--al

stimuli, the blood, nervous influence, the secreted
each organ reacts in its own peculiar manner ; a manner which
supposes a peculiar organic power imparted to it in the act of
sitas mfoerjm."at"ioTnhebystthime upluroscemsasy  of  nutrition,    and sustained by the
                                                      that of a   chemical, or mechani
                                                  be

cal, or organic substance ; the reaction, however, is always vital,
and indicates the existence of an organic force, of which it is the
effect. The physical properties of the one are in some sort in a
constant conflict with the vital properties of the other, and living
bodies only preserve their character of life so long as they are
able to resist the physical impression. When it is said that or
ganic movements are occasioned by incitations, we do not admit

    · Tiedemann, Physiologic.                                                     t Tiedemann.
                                                    In this excellent work, worthy of the
  J Tiedemann, Physiologic, vol. ii.                of which I have given this hasty notice,

great name of its author, the theory,
is fully developed.
       REPORT ON ANIMAL PHYSIOLOGY.                                 109

that they are the immediate effects of the mechanical or chemical
impressions, but assert that they are the effects of powers which
the external impression, be it mechanical or be it chemical, has
thus solicited to act."
Of these excitants some are necessary conditions of life,
and are therefore called vital stimuli. Plants cannot live any
considerable time without air, water, warmth, and light ; nor
animals without the first three, and they become rickety when
deprived of the last. These being indispensable for the due
nutrition of parts, are necessary for the sustentation of those
powers which are developed with the parts by the act of nutri
tion. But all animals are not dependent upon each of these
excitants in an equal degree. Thus, the new-born of warm-
hlooded animals resist more easily the deprivation of air than of
warmth. They are drowned more readily in cold water than in
warm,  wwatitehrinbetcweeretanin20l--im3it0s°  of warmth. They
under                                                               live longest
                                               R., and if the heat  be above or
below these limits die sooner. In general, the lower the place
of the animal in the zoological scale, the longer can it bear to
be deprived of these stimuli. Amphibia live from ten to thirty
hours, in distilled water, under the air-pump ; and frogs, whose

lungs have been extirpated, may survive thirty hours.
With respect to the stimulus of food the same general rule
prevails ; the intervals of supply may be greater without destroy
ing life in animals, according as their organization is less com
plicated, and their powers more limited. Thus, tortoises and
serpents may be deprived of food for months, and many mollusca
for yet longer periods.
Some also of the internal conditions of life may, in the lower
animals and in the imperfect states of the higher, be suppressed
or greatly altered, and yet life be supported for a longer or a
shorter period. The experiments of Legallois and others lead
to the conclusion, that this period varies inversely as the per
fection of the organ whose action is suppressed. The Batrachia
are found to live for many hours without the heart ; a tortoise,
whose brain was removed by Redi, lived after the operation for

several months ; in new-born rabbits, if the heart be extirpated,

sensibility persists for about fourteen minutes ; when they are
fifteen days old, for only two and a half minutes ; thirty days old,
one minute* ; and the young of man may, at the time of birth,

be revived when the heart's action has ceased for a period after
which, in the more adult state, it could not be restored.
In the more perfect forms of life there is a necessary depend
ence of the whole organism upon each of its parts, and of the

                         · Esiai, Legallois, p. 142.
110 FOURTH REPORT -- 1834.

parts upon the whole. Thus, for instance, respiration is neces

sary to the heart's action, the heart's action to the respiratory
process ; neither can proceed after destruction of the nervous
system, and this requires for the production of its energy a due
supply of aerated blood. But this mutual relation of all and

"each, alternately as cause and effect, has been improperly as
sumed as a distinctive character of life.  The same is true of

an automaton, in which the moving power is part of the thing
moved : the same is also true of the planetary system as far as

we are acquainted with it*."
Thus does the vital power, manifesting itself in the assimila
tive process, occasion all the forms of life upon the earth.
Each living thing, according to the nature of that original power
(of which we can know nothing but by its effects), requires its
own modifications of the common conditions of life, and presents
an organization (upon which classification is based,) adapted to

the region and the element in which it is destined to exist. Of
these creatures, all that are not microscopic are observed to
proceed from parents similar in structure to themselves by modes
of propagation peculiar to the kind ; so that no one species,
under any modification of external condition, has ever been
known to assume the character or form which is distinctive of

another. The consideration of the stratification of the earth

assures us that all the families, genera, and species did not
commence their existence at one and the same epoch. On the
contrary, in the older strata are buried the remains of the sim
pler forms of life alone ; in the more recent those of more com
plex organization ; whilst the remains of the most perfect and
of man have not been discovered in the most recent stratum.

Of the remains which have thus been brought to light, some
belong to species and genera which still exist, others to such as
are lost. Some physiologists, taking their stand upon the
general fact of this successive advance towards perfection of
development in correspondence with the successive changes of
the globe, have concluded that all the various modifications
of life may be but successive metamorphoses of the first most
simple form.
The undoubted fact that existing species have been perpe
tuated unchanged for several thousands of years, would have
rendered such an opinion in the highest degree improbable, but
for the observations relative to the apparently spontaneous pro
duction of animals and of   plants from organic matter in solution
-- the apparent changes of  species from
under favourable external   circumstances  s--imapnledr   to  more complex
                                                         the  interchange of

· Treviranus, Erscheimmgen vnd Gesetze des organischen Lebais.
REPORT ON ANIMAL PHYSIOLOGY.                                                             Ill

animal and vegetable form. If the facts were really thus, thenis
                       a
might the objection to the hypothesis of metamorphosis founded(if

on the permanence of existing forms be encountered. It might                          ;

be averred that, notwithstanding our ignorance of the means,         is
the necessary conditions for such successive changes may have
been supplied in the earlier periods of the world, at epochs so
far removed, that the few thousands of years which have passed
away since the appearance of man upon the globe bear no pro
portion to their immense distance, and only show that the rate
according to which the conditions of change are produced is a
very slow one.

   Let us see to what conclusion the latest observations on In

fusoria are tending.

  It is well known that the experiments of Redi and of Vallis-

nieri were considered to have refuted the notions of the ancients
concerning spontaneous generation, until those of Tuberville
Needham, of O. F. Miiller and of Wrisberg, performed with the
most considerate exclusion that be possible) of circumstances
likely to throw doubt upon the result, revived them. Miiller,
repeating the experiments of Needham, concludes, that animal
and vegetable matter, by solution in water, reduced to minute
membranous shreds, upon which, in a short time, are seen micro
scopic globular points. These enter into a tremulous motion,
which gradually becomes more apparent the globules are de
tached, and Infusoria are produced from them. These first Infu
soria, he says, abound in all fluids, and are not to be confounded,
as usually done, with other Infusoria, being, on the contrary,
elements which are the component molecules of all animals and

plants.
   The conclusions Spallanzani drew from his experiments were

opposed to those of the above-named naturalists. He found the
structure of the infusory animals to vary with the nature of the
infusion, and explained their appearance upon the supposition
that ova had been introduced with the animal matter, or had
been suspended in the air, whose admission, at least in some
degree, necessary for the success of the experiment.

   The experiments of Priestley, of Ingenhouz, of Treviranus,
appeared to prove that the green matter of Priestley, produced
in organic infusions on exposure to light, first mass of ani
malcules then resolved into green globules, which concrete
into confervae then, after the solution of these, again becomes
infusory animals and vegetables of larger form. The organic
particles appeared indestructible, and common to each form of
life, passing from one to the other, and supplying the substance
; is

              ;

              is
                                                     a

                                                     is

                                                                                a
IIS FOURTH REPORT -- 1834.

from which each is formed, under the necessary external con

ditions*.

The recent experiments and observations of Ehrenberg have,
however, tended to increase our doubts concerning the validity

of these conclusions. He has not succeeded, as Spallanzani con
ceived he did, in producing definite forms of animalcules from
definite infusions. On the contrary, he has found the forms to
vary under circumstances the most similar. He has explained,
however, how it is that Spallanzani might be mistaken in his
conclusion. The species pass through many gradations of form
in their progress to maturity, each of which forms may have
been readily mistaken for a distinct species. These are not so
very numerous ; but the rate at which the individuals are multi
plied is altogether extraordinary. For instance, the Hydatina
senta, which was observed for eighteen days,iscapable of afourfold
increase in twenty-four hours, which may give more than a million
of individuals from a single ancestor in ten days, and on the most
moderate computation may give nearly seventeen millions in
twenty-four days. According to Ehrenberg, infusories exist in
all waters, (except rain and dew, in which he could not discover
them,) and in some parts of plants, though here, probably, only
in a diseased state of the plant. Further, he has succeeded in
detecting a complex organization in those animalcules lately
considered of so simple a form. Even in the Monas, a creature
not more than the twenty-thousandth part of an inch in diame
ter, the stomach is found to be of a compound structure, and
its motions are effected by cilia. In
                                       oIfthethrsen,heinobthseervinefdusioovnas,
and propagation by means of them.
of Treviranus and Needham, no animalcules were produced
when the vessel was
quantity of air exposed  hetormaethicigahllyhesaeta--ledif,    and       the necessary
when fresh air was introduced after boiling                             were produced
                                                             --thiefy
                                                                       the animalcules

have been shown to be capable of producing ova, which, indeed,
was never denied ; it seems more reasonable to suppose, that
those observers who did not succeed in discovering the complex
structure of the creature so extremely minute, might fail also
in discovering the first ova, though they really existed in the
infusion, than that the animal should arise spontaneously.
Ehrenberg has not succeeded in detecting these first ova. No
very violent improbability is included in the supposition that
bodies so infinitely small have been conveyed by the air, like the

   · Vide a full critique of the experiments of previous authors, and an account
of his own, in Treviranus, Biologie, a. 267, 403.
                       REPORT OX ANIMAL PHYSIOLOGY.                                      113

motes visible in the sunbeam. We now know how numerous
they must be*.
In the case of parasitical worms, (the Distoma hepaticiim,
for instance,) the ova are too large to be either conveyed by the
air, or to be absorbed by vessels from the food and carried to their
Ifnidus in the viscera. Such worms have even been found in the
viscera of embryos.      we must have recourse to hypothesis to
account for              of these, let our hypothesis be supported
by analogy.  the origin  impossible that a portion of an ovum may

              It is not

be able, as has been supposed by many, to germinate and pro
duce a new individual, as a portion of a Polypus becomes a di
stinct and perfect animal of its kindf .
The opinion of the gradual production of all creatures from
an original simple form has received confirmation, in the minds
of many, from their having observed that the embryo of the
highest forms of life passes by gradations through those which
are permanent in inferior animals. They have, however, sup
posed this resemblance to be more complete than observation
allows us to believe it to be. We have seen that the first ob
served embryo of all animals is extremely simple. With respect
to this simplicity, which but implies the imperfection of our tests,
a comparison may be allowed between embryos of a higher
order and the simplest forms of life, when the animal presents
no separation of distinct organs. As the development of the

* " Although Dr. Khrenbcrg, in refuting the notion of the extreme sim
plicity of these animals, has overthrown one great argument in favour of their
spontaneous origin, yet he has offered no explanation of their production in

infusions which hare ltoen subjected to a heat sufficient to destroy any parent
animals, or even ova, supposed to be present. In these cases, as is well known,
the adversaries of the theory ascribe the origin of Infusoria to ova conveyed by
the air; an              which the                  supporters of
             assumption                              as true, they  the doctrine regard  as highly
improbable,  and which,  if admitted                                consider inadequate  to explain

the production of Infusoria in all the conditions under which it is reported to
have taken place by observers worthy of credit. It is true that Dr. Ehrenberg
never witnessed the spontaneous origin of Infusoria; but before denying the pos
sibility of its occurrence, and discarding the theory of spontaneous generation
as unnecessary to account for the facts, it was incumbent on him to have sub
jected anew to a rigid examination the observations of those who have arrived
at an opposite conclusion from himself, and either expose the fallacy of their
experiments, or show how they were to be explained on a different view from

that adopted by their authors. It is the more to be regretted that he has not
favoured us with such a critical examination, as, from his extensive knowledge
of the different species of the animals in question, his intimate acquaintance with
their   mode of life,  --andDhr.isSshuaprepreioyr,           of observation, he is singularly well
fitted  for thetask."                               methods
                                                    Account  of Professor Ehrenberg'e Researches
on the Infusoria: Edhib. New Phil. Journal, Oct. 1833.
   t  Epnitnoszoaandhasvmeallbepeinecefsouonfdfliinnt. e--mTbrieyodsemaanndn'isn  the eggs of birds : so also
have                                                                              Anat. und Nat. Gesch. der

IVogeL, b. ii. s. 128. quoted by Treviranus.

    1834.
114 FOURTH REPORT 1834.

embryo advances, we observe some organs superadded, though
still in a very simple form ; so that here also a certain resem
blance subsists between the embryo in this second stage and
animals a little more complex. As we continue to observe
the embryo of the higher family, we see organs come into
view, some of which are meant only for a transitory purpose
and disappear ; some which have no purpose during foetal
life, but are meant for an ulterior use. Here the resemblance

between the embryo of the higher form, and the animal of the
lower form with which we may most favourably compare                                 it,
found to be less close. We find that the animal has organs suited                       a is
to the activities with which                 endowed, which are not to be
                                    it
                                         is

found in the embryo. Even the two exist under similar ex
                                    if

ternal conditions of life, the organs adapted to these conditions
are not the same in both. To instance these several state

ments when no organs can be observed in the primitive streak
is
                :
of the embryo, resembles the zoophyte, in which nutrition
performed by imbibition but we observe in addition thatit it
                              ;
                                    ;

                                              it

                                                       is
                                                                 a
Ifthe primitive streak extends into a membrane which becomes
the vascular area.        we attempt the comparison when the

body resembles a worm, in as much as                   cylindrical and has
no limbs for motion, the resemblance scarcely extends further.
The worm has rings and contractile bands for its motions,

whilst the embryo has neither and the simple tube, which re
Ifpresents the heart in both, gives indications of higher organiza
tion in the embryo.       the worm resides in an aqueous medium
like the embryo,                                       of gills, the embryo by
production of its         respires  btuybme --eatnhse   umbilical vesicle (?), or
                        abdominal
the allantoic, or the placenta. At another period remarkable

apertures are observed, at regular distances, towards the head,

between the imperfectly closed abdominal laminae in the higher
embryos, in which they resemble some of the cartilaginous fishes.
But with the former the vessels that follow the arches do not di
vide for any respiratory purpose,
respiratory vessels of the gills.       whilst         in the latter   they are the
                                                       still further   stage of ad
                                        If, in
                                    is
                                                    a

                                                                   is
vancement, we compare the higher embryo with the turtle, we find
that in both the double heart rendered virtually single, but for
very   different purposes, and here the similarity                     at an end*.
       these analogies, therefore, we look in vain     for             that precision
   In

which can alone support the inference that has been deduced.
Far rather do we infer gradations of original power, which
manifest their different energies at different epochs, under ex
ternal conditions which may be similar according to general
plan, the expression of each that superadded modifying that
                                             is
                                                                 i.

                                                                                  a
of all which preceded, and concurring with theirs to" develop
                   * Weber in Hildebrandt's Anatomy, vol. p. 125.
                   REPORT ON ANIMAL PHYSIOLOGY.                                  115

others which may be still latent. In the lower creature, a par
ticular organ or set of organs attain their purpose and are com
plete ; in the imperfect state of the higher, the corresponding
organs may in general resemble them, and may even perform a
similar office, yet still they are seen to be more than sufficient for
this lower purpose : in the midst even of this general similarity,
the indication of a higher destiny, yet unattained, is apparent.
   We are disposed to conclude, then, generally, that all the
families, genera, and species of animated things were originally
created in such forms as we observe them in at present ; and
that they continue to produce the organs which are the instru
ments and the expression of their several powers by the process
of assimilation as a proximate cause. Amongst these different
organs the brain is peculiarly distinguished. We are sensible
in ourselves of ideas, of emotions, of desires -- of powers which
present themselves to us as pure energies, without any interme
dium : we have self-consciousness. These activities are excited
by our own will; we cannot contemplate them as observable
processes in any other person. On the contrary, the energies
of all the other organs are totally independent of our will ; we
are aware of them only as their effects are matters of obser
vation by means of our outward senses, and we observe them
better in other individuals than in ourselves. Life, thus pre
senting such remarkable differences in these two respects, has
been distinguished as two forms. And this distinction is not

merely logical, for in the vegetable kingdom we have an instance
in which the one form of life exists totally separate from the other.
But we find that even the higher form, the intellectual or purely
animal life, requires for its manifestation a body*. In living
creatures the two factors, though logically separable, exist as
one reality. The two spheres approach and intermingle in va
rious degrees in the different families of the earth, the animal
powers depending upon the vegetative for the formation of their
                      The life of the lowest
material   organ.  that of the vegetable.     "anFimroaml  scarcely     appears
to differ  from                                              these     animals,

which obtain food without any act of volition, we come to those
which can only obtain it by such an act, but who still, without
any act of this kind, obtain the influence of air, yet more imme
diately necessary to their existence. We arrive at length at the
most perfect class, which can neither obtain food nor air except

by an act of the sensorium. In them the sensorial power is as
necessary for the inhalation of air, as the ingestion of foodf."

   * Burdacli, vol. iv. p. 3.  Burdach    notices the impropriety of   calling,  with
Bichat, the animal life ' vie  externe,'  and the organic ' interne.'
i2t Wilson Philip, Phil. Tram. 1834.

                                                                                       .
116 FOURTH REPORT 1834.

And there enters, on the other hand, even into those organic mo
tions which we call voluntary, much that is neither willed nor is
a matter of consciousness*.

The following, therefore, I would signalize as the great achieve
ments of modern Physiology : viz.
The establishment of the general proposition, that peculiar
tviistsaulepso;w--erds atainreg  connected with,  or    inherent  in,
                                  from Haller :                        peculiar animal

The establishment of the theory of development                         ;--dating from
G. F. Wolff:

   The further generalization which derives all the vital powers
from modifications of the force of Assimilation ; -- more fully pro
pounded by Tiedemann.

   Having    thwuhsicphresIenhtaevde  a rapid outline of theoretical        phy
siology, in                           purposely suppressed many           details

which may    be                  introduced   more    conveniently in  I  other    parts
of a review                      the present   state  of physiology,        shall   now
             of

proceed in that direction in which the science must for a long

time attempt a progressive perfection, by endeavouring to as
certain, as far as is possible, the inferior rules by which the prox
imate cause operates. These include all the processes of vege
tative life ; and since they are all effected through a constant
                                                                  matter of the vari
interchange  Ibesthwaelel nbeegxinterbnyal      matter  and  the  acquisitions added
ous organs,                                   pointing  out  the

minelra--te thyeeabrslootod. our knowledge concerning the vehicle of the for

The Blood.--This fluid would be ill suited for its office, were

not its constituent molecules held together, in the living state,

by affinities so delicately balanced that they yield to every re
active energy that the different organs to which it is presented,
can offer. Hence we account for the great discrepancies in the
results of chemical inquiry concerningit                     from the ease with
                     it

                                   a
                                                                p.
                                                                     3,

                                                         it,
                                                                                         is
which its components may be caused to combine in various pro
portions, and from the different effects which different quanti
ties of the same reagent are capable of producing.
In the body exists as colourless transparent fluid, in which
an infinite number of minute red bodies are equably diffused.
Out of the body shortly coagulates, or separates into serum

and    coagulum.                 of  Home and Bauer,         that the  coagulum
        was the opinion
   It
formed by an aggregation of the corpuscles in the following way.

                                 · Burdach, vol. iv.    &c.
             REPORT ON ANIMAL PHY.SIOLOGY.                         117

The corpuscles consist of a nucleus inclosed in a membrane of
coloured matter, which membrane bursts, and the nuclei thus al

lowed to escape attract each other and form the solid coagulum,
which is coloured by the broken membranes, and from which
the colouring matter may be washed out by water. This opinion,
which appeared to be confirmed by the observations of Prevost

and Dumas, of Dutrochet, and of H. M. Edwards, has been
very generally received. But it is certainly unfounded. For
the fibrin may be separated from the blood by stirring, whilst
the corpuscles remain in the serum unbroken and unchanged :
the serum, far from effecting their solution, supplies the best

medium in which they may be preserved for observation: if
in human blood the coagulation be retarded by adding a few
drops of solution of subcarb. potass., the corpuscles descend,
from their superior weight, before coagulation takes place : in
the course of half an hour a tender coagulum is formed, of which
the lower part (as far as the corpuscles reach) is red, the upper
pale and thready : operating on the blood of the frog, Miiller
has succeeded in separating, by the filter*, the large corpuscles
of that animal from the clear liquor, which last afterwards sepa
rates into fibrin and serum : fibrin is not soluble in water, the
corpuscles are so in part ; and, in general, the two present some
whaTthediffCeroernptuscclheesm. --icaTl heresaegebnocideise.s, called collectively cruor,
have been objects of much interest ever since they were first
                                         All   that
observed     bcoyntMroavleprisgyh,i.--         form,  relates to   them is even yet
matter of                               their         their size,  their composition,

the cause of their colour. They have been too frequently ob
served in water, rather than in serum, by which the two first

qualities  --areThsepyeeedxilyist  altered.    vertebral  animals  as round or oval
   Form.                            in all

bodies, with well-defined edges. They are semi-transparent
and pale when seen singly ; but present the colour of the
   blood when seen by reflected light or in masses.

In all the Mammalia they are circular.
In the other Vertebrata they are oblong. De Blainville has

   observed both these forms in Fishes, and Miiller in the
Frog, who thinks that the round corpuscles, one sixth of
   the size of the others, belong to the lymph or the chyle.

In all the Vertebrata they are flat. Rudolphi states, that they
are flattest in the Amphibia, less so in Birds, least of all in
Man.
Hodgkin and Lister find the proportion of axes in Man to
be 1 : 4*5.

   * Miiller, p. 106. The filter was composed of delicate animal membrane,
moistened bladder, and covered a glass tube from which the air was exhausted.
118 FOURTH REPORT -- 1834.

To the last-mentioned observers, as well as to Young, the
   corpuscles have not appeared uniformly flattened, but con
   cave on their surfaces. Miiller, however, who believes in
   the existence of a central nucleus, of which he finds the

   thickness to equal the lesser diameter of the corpuscle, has,

   if his observations admit not of another explanation, set

    that point at rest.

Size. --As a rule, the size is constant in the same individual,

    and the same species ; and their measurement assumes an
    additional importance from the observation of Blundell,
    and of Prevost and Dumas, that death follows the transfu
    sion of blood when its corpuscles differ in size from those
    of the animal which is operated upon.

In Man the size of the corpuscle, according to
Rudolphi,Sprengel,Hodgkin, and Lister = 0*00033 in. 3a'00
Kater, Prevost, and Dumas   = 0-00023                     tbW
                                                          ^^
Wollaston, Weber            -- 0-00028

Young                       = 0-00016                     vhnr

If we take the mean of these, we find the size of the human
corpuscle to be f-^^dth part of an inch in diameter.

In different Mammalia, (Prevost and Dumas,)

   the size of the corpuscle is the same as in
   Man, in the Dog, Hedgehog, Swine, Rab
   bit, Dolphin                                 = -00025 inch.
Larger in Simia Callithri.v                     = -00030
Smaller in Ass                                  = -00022
Cat = -00020
                                                = -00018
Sheep                                           = -00017
Chamois                     '                   = -00014
Goat                           .

Hodgkin and Lister have, however, found it smaller in the
   Swine and Rabbit than in Man.

Diameter in Man : major axis in Frog : : 1 : 4.

The corpuscles are of equal magnitude in arterial and venous
   blood and similar in form.

Structure. -- Hewson, from observing the mode in which the
   fresh corpuscle appears to swell in water and to change, be
   coming gradually colourless, and appearing as a central nu
   cleus surrounded by an integument, concluded that it really
   exists in the blood in this complex form. In this opinion he
   has been followed by Home, Edwards, Dutrochet, Prevost,
   and Dumas. The integument has been represented as the
   colouring matter, and the nucleus as fibrin. Raspail, how
   ever, gives it as the result of his observation, that when the
          REPORT O.N ANIMAL PHYSIOLOGY.                            119

homogeneous corpuscle comes in contact with water or an
acid, then first a change is effected ; the density increas
ing towards the centre, and the colour, at first diffused

through the whole mass, being then confined to the surface.
But however this may be, whether the nucleus have pre
existed or be now first formed, it is not soluble either in
water or in dilute acetic acid, whilst the external portion
with the colour is gradually removed by this. This has
been pointed out by Miiller with great precision in his late
work : the subject of his examination, principally, was the
blood of the Frog.

Berzelius refers the insolubility of the corpuscles in serum to
J.the albumen which it contains : but this is not the only cause.

    Miiller rather considers it to be an effect of the salts which
the serum holds in solution ; for he found, that on adding to a

drop of Frog's blood under the microscope a drop of a solution
of yolk of egg in water, the corpuscles lose their form and be
come round as quickly as in water, whilst a drop of a solution
of such a salt as does not separate the blood (as subcarb. po
           causes no such  change to be  effected.
tasIst.)  has been stated  by some that  iron does not  exist  in  greater

quantity in the cruor of the blood than in its other essential com
ponents. Engelhardt has discovered a remarkable property of
chlorine, confirmed by H. Rose, by which the incorrectness of
that opinion has been proved, and the conclusion of Berzelius
established, viz., that all the iron of the blood belongs to the
cruor. The chlorine precipitates the animal matter from its solu
tion in water, and at the same time deprives it of the lime, soda,
phosphorus, iron, which may have been connected with it. The
liquor being strained, the oxide of iron may be precipitated by
ammonia : but that precaution is necessary, for otherwise, the
ammonia redissolves the organic matter, and the iron recom-
bines with it. Engelhardt could obtain no iron from similar
operations with serum and fibrin, though he did all the otl or

salts ; and there was no ash left on combustion.
   Berzelius's estimate of the quantity of iron in the ash of the

cruor was confirmed by these experiments. Of the entire blood
metallic iron forms only one part in 1 000.

   It is yet undetermined whether the iron exists in the corpus
cles of the blood in its reguline form or as an oxide, Engel

hardt and Berzelius supporting the former opinion, and H. Rose
and Gmelin the latter. For the former opinion it has been con
tended, that chlorine has a strong affinity for the metals, but

none for their oxides ; and that the oxide of iron, if present,
would be dissolved by the mineral acids. But in Engelhardt's
120 FOURTH REPORT 1834.

experiment, the affinity excited is between chlorine and animal

matter, not iron and chlorine. And if the mineral acids have
not the same effect, this does not prove the iron to be in a me
tallic state ; for if it were so, and unprotected by the animal
matter, it would be oxidized, and then dissolved by the acid.
The labours of chemists to explain the mode in which the
elementary substances are united to produce the colour of the
cruor, however they may be unsatisfactory in this respect, have
thrown much light upon the reactions of these substances. Such
experiments, on the other hand, have introduced as constituents
of the blood, products which are perhaps merely the effects of
the chemical operations ; or new combinations, not existing in
nature, of its elements. The iron seems to enter in too small a

quantity to form a metallic pigment for the cruor. Whatever
              ccoolonusrt.ituti"onSinocfethites
changes  the                                     blood, as  a living product, also
changes  its                                      chemical  composition is only a

product of life, so are we unable by any aids derived from inor
ganic nature to produce it. The colour has its cause in the con
stitution of the blood as an organic whole ; and each of its ele
ments, iron amongst the rest, contributing to that constitution,
enters   into the     porrodliuqcutoiornsoafngitusincios.lo--urT*h.e"
    The  Lymph,                                                        clear  fluid  in  which
the cruor, or mass of corpuscles, is diffused. It separates spon
             --intIo  two    portions, fibrin and serum.
taneously             refer   to Berzelius for all that is                    yet  known  con
   JFibrin.
cerning this substance. Since Muller's discovery, it is distin
guished from the corpuscles; and De Blainville and Hodgkin
have shown that its fibres do not consist of strings of minute

globules.    --Lecanu        has  repeated       the analysis          of serum,         and as
    Serum.

serts, that certain oily substances exist as components, which
were unnoticed by Berzelius and Marcet. His mode was, after
desiccating a known quantity by moderate heat, and thus deter
mining the quantity of water, to treat successively, with boiling
water and boiling alcohol at 40°, the residue of desiccation. The
water dissolved the soluble salts and extractive matters, the al

cohol the fat matters. The watery solution was evaporated ; the
residue treated with alcohol to separate the extractive matters
soluble in it. What was insoluble was calcined, to determine the
proportion of organic matter it still contained ; the residue again
treated with boiling alcohol to separate the hydrochlorates.
   The fatty matters taken up by the boiling alcohol were sepa
rated from each other by means of alcohol at 33°, which does
not dissolve when cold the crystallizable fat, but does the oily.

                                  * Burdach, iv. 85.
             REPORT ON ANIMAL PHYSIOLOGY.                            121

The albumen procured by means of boiling water and cold al
cohol was dried, weighed, and calcined, and its salts determined.
Traces of iron were found in such minute quantity in serum,

that Lecanu presumes it would not furnish any if it were possi
ble to procure it entirely separate from the colouring matter.
1000 parts of serum consist, according to this mode of ana
lysis, of
                                               First      Second

                                               Analysis.  Analysis.

Water                                          90600      901-00
                                                            81-20
Albumen                                        7800          205
                                                              2-55
Organic matters soluble in alcohol and water . . 1-69         2-10
                                                              1-30
Albumen combined with soda                     2-10
                                                              5-32
Crystallizable fatty matter                    1-20
                                                              2-00
Oily matter                                    100

CMorure of sodium .                            G-00

             - potassium ·j
jAlkalinesubcarbonate }
             phosphate.... S                   2-10
               sulphate
Subcarbonate of lime

                                magnesia.  \-  091        0-87
Phosphate of lime                              100        1-61

                         magnesia
                      iron
Loss

                                               1000-00    1000-00

These fatty matters will be better understood by considering
Lecanu's analysis of the entire blood. He poured alcohol in
excess on venous blood, separated the precipitate, and treated it
frequently with boiling alcohol, obtaining thus a mass insoluble
in alcohol, and a slightly rose-coloured liquor. This liquor,
subjected to evaporation, became turbid towards the end of the
operation, in consequence of the separation of a fat matter in
soluble in the aqueous product. The residue of evaporation was
treated with aether : a portion of it was dissolved.      Hence an
sethereal solution A, and a residue B.
A, on spontaneous evaporation, gave a brownish residue, bit
ter, of a consistence similar to that of turpentine, formed of two
distinct matters, one solid, the other liquid and like oil. The
residue was incompletely soluble in cold alcohol, the solid por
tion remaining attached to the sides of the vessel. When this
solid portion had been separated, and dissolved in boiling alcohol,

it formed, on cooling, white nacreous laminae, similar to the fatty
matter of brain.
On evaporating the alcohol with which this had been washed,
and in which the oily portion of the residue had been dissolved,
another residue, of a bitter taste and turpentine consistence, was
obtained j insoluble in hot or cold water, soluble in alcohol or
122 FOURTH REPORT -- 1834.

aether, inalterable by hydrochloric and nitric acids, rendered
brown by sulphuric acid, soluble in potass with slight heat, and
pflarekceisp. itatIefdthferoemxcetshse   solution
                                        of acid be  by hydrochloric        acid               in white
                                                    washed off with       water               until the
latter no longer reddens the vegetable blues, it communicates to
alcohol, when essayed therewith, the property of reddening those
colours. Hence the oily part of the blood appears to be con
vertible by potass into an acid substance, and is considered by
Lecanu as an immediate principle of the same.
From B treated with alcohol was obtained a brownish yellow
liquid and a residue C.
The liquid, on being evaporated, furnished an orange yellow
mass, insoluble in aether, but soluble in water and alcohol, which
then manifested alkaline properties. The watery solution af
                                        w; --iththehysdamroechalsortihcatacnodnsniditerriecd
forded a precipitate                                                                          acids, and
with solution of galls                                                                         by Berze-
lius to be a mixture of animal matter and lactic acid ; by other

chemists as resembling osmazome. It is considered by Lecanu

to differ from osmazome in as much as the latter is not precipi-
table from its solution by acids.
C was found insoluble in aether and alcohol at 40° : treated
frequently with boiling alcohol at 33°, it gave the hydrochlo-
rates, and some extractive matter easily separable by alcohol at
40°. This new residue, treated with cold distilled water, was

nearly entirely dissolved, except a small quantity of a brown
matter insoluble in boiling water and alcohol, and considered
as a mixture of colouring matter, albumen, and fibrin.
   From a portion    obfytahceetsiaclianceid,s--oluatigoenl,atwinhoiutes
dantly precipitated                                                       flakes were         abun
                                                                            albumen,          which
Lecanu considers, from the mode in which he obtained it, to
exist in this form in the blood. Another portion of the saline

solution was evaporated, the residue calcined, and the salts de

termined*.

low1s00:--0 parts of blood, according to the above, consist as fol
                                                    First
                                                                                              Second

                                                    Analysis.                                 Analysis.

Water                                               780145                                    785-590

Fibrin                                              2100                                      3565

Albumen                                             60 090                                    69415

Colouring matter                                    133-000                                   119-026
Crystallizable fatty matter                             2-430                                     4-300
Oily matter                                             1-310                                     2-270
Extractive matters soluble in alcohol and water         1 790                                     1 -920

Albumen combined with soda                          1-265                                     2-010

        · Annalet de C/iimie et de Physique, torn, xlviii. p. 310.
                  REPORT ON ANIMAL PHYSIOLOGY.                                                                                                        123

Chlorure of sodium                     *        First                                                               Second
                   - potassium..             Analysis.                                                             Analysis.

Subcarbonate, "I                       y        8-370                                                                 .7304

JPhorsapphhaattee,, ... >>aalkaline..

Sulphate,
Subcarbonate of lime

                  magnesia

Phosphate oflime                       I     2-1
                                             2-400
                  magnesia..

Peroxide of iron                                                                                                                               2-586
Loss

                                             1000-000                                                              1000-000
" Doubtless under various modes of applying heat, alcohol,
the subcarbonates, &c., to the blood, many substances may be
mnmeaanydtese--tnori(caahplbpuaemnariem,na,wl fhicbichrhienm,ariseatnrbdyu, tcifrvutaohrreia)t.oiobnjesTchtoefwiketnsreoewoslsenedlyngtetiaol
                                                                                                                                                compo
                                                                                                                                               of these
                                                                                                                                               compre
hend, comparatively and in the gross, the series of changes which
any matter may undergo under different agencies, and not to

discover new materials and declare them to be real components
of the organic body. Tiedemann reckons the peculiar matter
of saliva amongst the components of the blood ; and lately urea
has been counted amongst the number, because it has been found
in the blood after extirpation of the kidneys. Incontestibly, in
certain cases of suppressed secretion or of increased resorption,
bile, the seminal fluid, &c., have been found there ; but no special

product of secretion can yet, on sufficient grounds, be proved to
be a normal component of the blood, and from what we know of
it,

              a

            \ · it

                   is
                           is

                                  ;
                                                                        is
                                                                                                         p.
such result not to be expected*." Numerous colouring
matters have been classed amongst the components of the blood,
                  explanations of chemists   respecting the causes of co
floroumr --thaes  globulin, erythragin, &c.  Burdach thinks that they are

either the product of reagents acknowledged not to exist in the
blood, or are modifications of albumen. Boudet, by treating very
large quantities of blood, contends that all blood contains cho-

lesterinf.
    Gaji. -- Under the air-pump, air has been observed to escape
from recent blood its quantity has been variously computed.
Most observers, as Sir Humphry Davy, Brande, Scudamore, Vogel,
                  carbonic acid. The quantity very variously esti
state that
mated. Brande obtained two cubic inches from eight ounces of

                  Burdach, iv. 68.                                                                           342.
                  Annates de Chimie et de Physique, torn. lii.
 124 FOURTH REPORT 1834.

 blood; Scudamore half acubic inch from six ounces; SirHumphry
 Davy rather more than one cubic inch from twelve cubic inches

J.of blood. Dr. Clanny finds that the gas developed is principally

 nitrogen. Dr. Davy asserts, from his experiments, that in no
 case is carbonic acid ever developed from fresh-drawn blood ;
 that, on the contrary, it absorbs one fourth of its bulk of carbo
 nic acid, which becomes combined. Miiller has repeated the
 analysis, both with fresh sheep's blood and with that of man.
 Even under a heat which amounted to 200° F., one pound of the
 former gave off only 1'8 cubic inch of gas: of this quantity
 not one fifth cubic inch was absorbed by lime water ; and this
 small quantity of carbonic acid he attributes to the action of the
 air contained in the tube of his apparatus upon the blood. He
repeated the experiment in such a way as to exclude the air, and
 obtained no trace of carbonic acid, nor any, except the merest
 bubble, of any other gas. He further found, that blood artifi
cially impregnated with carbonic acid did not yield it again un

J.der the air-pump*, and thus has confirmed the same observation

of Dr. Davy. Mitscherlich, Gmelin, and Tiedemann have lately
performed another experiment with the same result. They in
troduced small metallic tubes, provided with stop-cocks, into the
artery and vein of a Dog. After all air was evacuated from the
tubes, by allowing the blood to flow, they were brought under
glass cylinders inverted over mercury. The cylinders, half filled
with blood, were placed under the air-pump. On exhausting,
bubbles arose, so that the quicksilver, which had stood half an
inch above that in the cup, sunk about an inch. But when
the air was gradually readmitted to the bell of the pump, they
disappeared ; showing that they did not consist of gas, but of
watery vapour which had filled a vacuum. Both kinds of blood
comported themselves similarly. The authors found that the
blood contains carb. acid combined ; for blood mixed with vine
gar gave bubbles under the air-pump, which, when venous blood
was employed, did not entirely disappear on readmission of the
air : hence the alkaline nature of the blood depends not upon

caustic alkalies, but upon their carbonates f.

   The proportion of solid to fluid matter in the blood has been
determined by Prevost and Dumas, in a great number of animals.
They find that in Man the solid are to the fluid : : 1 : 9.

   In carnivorous animals there are more cruor and fibrin together

than in graminivorous : in young animals less than in old of the

Jsame species .

·  Miiller, Physiulogie, i. 313.  Miiller,  1834, 103.  J J.Davy.
   Archiv.fur Anal, und Phyt.,
f
            REPORT ON ANIMAL PHYSIOLOGY.                                            125

   In cold-blooded animals it is the quantity of cruor, not of

fibrin, which is diminished*.
   Michaelis gives the following analysis of the components of

arterial and venous blood into the elementary gases f.

   Nitrogen        Albumen.                               Venous.
   Carbonic acid                                           15-505
                             Arterial.                    52-652
   Hydrogen                  15562
   Oxygen                     53-009                         7-359
                                                           21-484
                                6-993
                              24-436

   Nitrogen        Fibrin.                                Venous.
   Carbonic acid                                          17-267
                            Arterial.                     50110
   Hydrogen                  17-587
   Oxygen                    51-374                         8-288

                               7-254                      24-065
                             23-785

                   Colouring: Matter.

   Nitrogen                       Arterial.               Venous.
   Carbonic acid                  1 7-253                 1 7-392
                                  51-382
   Hydrogen                                                 7711
   Oxygen                           8-354                 21-666
                                  23-011

   Arterial blood contains more nitrogen and oxygen,                but less
carbonic acid and hydrogen, than venous blood.

   Arterial blood    Nit.              C. Ac.       Hyd.       Oxyg.
   Venous blood    16-800         I 51-920     I 7-534    I 23-74G
                   16-720         | 52-107     | 7-765
                                                          | 23-408

Lecanu has made some interesting comparative analyses of the
blood of individuals of different ages, sexes, and temperaments.
To determine the proportion of the essential principles, he dried
a portion of the serum after having weighed    ; it,
                                                              it

                                                                                 :
                                                          and thus deter

mined its water, its extractive matter, and salts. He then divided
the clot into two portions, dried one of them to determine, by
the loss, the quantity of water of the serum involved in
                                                                                    and

washed the other, to obtain the quantity of fibrin. By the first
part of the process he ascertained that part of the weight due to
the extractive matter and salts left by the water of the serum
evaporated: subducting this he had the weight of fibrin and
colouring matter. By the second part of he ascertained the
                                               it

weight of the fibrin alone. The difference was the weight of the

colouring matter. In this way, examining the blood of twenty
healthy persons, ten males and ten females, he found the water
to vary in 1000 parts of blood--

·  Muller.                           Poggendorf, Annalen, 1832.

                                  t
126 FOURTH REPORT 1834.

       In the females from 853-135 to 790-394 :
              Mean of the 10 cases 804-371.

                  In the males from 805-263 to 778-625 :

                         Mean of the 10 cases 789-320.

In different temperaments :

                 Females, lymphatic, mean of 5 cases 803-710.

                  , sanguineous,   4 792-984.

Males, lymphatic,                  2 800-566.
          , sanguineous,           5 786-583.

--Female, mean quantity of clot from 10 cases 115-963.
Male,                                                  . 132-490.

Hence there is more water in the blood of females than of males.

The proportion of water was not found to depend upon age, at least

between the limits of twenty and sixty years. In individuals of
the same age, it is less in the sanguineous than in the lymphatic.
The proportion of albumen is found to be sensibly the same
in the male and female, and not to be proportional to the age
between the same limits ; and nearly the same in quantity in
sanguineous and lymphatic individuals of different sexes. The
proportion of colouring matter is found to vary in the blood of
individuals of different sex and age, in individuals of same sex and
different age : and to be greater in the male than in the female ; and
greater in sanguineous than in lymphatic persons of same sex.
   Denis found from comparison of his analyses, that in the blood

of individuals ill nourished and accustomed to stimulant drinks,
the proportion of colouring matter increases, and is even more
abundant than in the blood of sanguineous subjects ; but that the
                  contrary, is in
albumen, on the   change which     Jv.eMryiilslmerall   quantity*.   blood  of
   The principal                                       found in the
cholera patients, he states to be its propensity to coagulate even
during life. He therefore recommends the use of the subcar-
bonates of soda and potass, particularly the last, in large doses,
on the immediate accession of the disorder. Dr. O'Shaugh-
nessy, Dr. Clanny, and Mr. Bell found the salts and serum also
greatly defective in quantity in this disease.
There is no longer any question amongst physiologists as to
the life of the blood. That which enters into the composition
of all parts of the living body, from which they are produced,
and sustained, and restored, and upon which the body itself re
acts, must possess life. Many have even supposed that its red
particles possess spontaneity of motion, as in the instances
quoted by Professor Alison in the Appendix to his Physiology ;
but the phaenomena alluded to appear to be explicable partly from
acknowledged actions of the neighbouring living solids ; and

                  · Majendit't Journal, ix. 221.
               REPORT ON ANIMAL PIIYSIOLOGY.                        127

where they are not so, they are found to be not peculiar to mi
nute organic products, but are observed also in unorganized mo
lecules moving in fluids under the microscope*.

  J.How quickly the body reacts upon the blood, is proved by the

direct experiments of Thackrah, Scudamore and Davy, who
found the quantity of fibrin to vary in different portions of the
blood during the same bleeding: generally diminishing.

    That a due supply of arterial blood is necessary for support
ing the functions of the more important organs of the body, is
seen from the singular anastomoses of the large arteries of the
brain ; from the care taken to guard some of them from pres
sure ; from the imperfection observable in the muscular and ner
vous powers of persons in whom the septum of the heart is im
perfect, or the ductus arteriosus open ; and numerous other in-

· Thus, Dr. Czermack of Vienna observed a peculiar motion of the particles
of the blood when one of the vessels of the gills in the larva of the Salamandra
atra was cut through. The particles, under the microscope, of the effused blood
were seen to have an irregular motion backwards and forwards at some points,
but generally to move round in circles or ellipses. Dr. Sharpey has shown
(Edinburgh Medical .1ournal, 1830,) that in the larva of the Frog and Salamander
in the Mollusca and other inferior aquatic animals, the exterior covering of the
body generally, but especially of the respiratory organs, possesses the power of
impelling the water contiguous to it in a determinate direction along the sur
face, by which a constant current is kept up, and successive portions of water
brought in contact with the gills, replacing the action of the respiratory muscles
in higher creatures. Drs. Purkinje and Valentin have lately published an in
teresting paper in Miiller's Archhrn, Part V. 1834, in which are detailed ad
ditional observations of the same kind. Whilst seeking for ovules in the tubes
of Rabbits which had been impregnated three days, they observed by the micro
scope that minute particles of the mucous membrane of the tubes presented a
lively motion under water, rolling round their axes, and recognised it as a mo
tion similar to that of the cilia of Infusories (Flimmerbewegung).  The mucous
membrane also of the entire uterus and generative passages exhibited similar
motions, though with different degrees of vivacity. These distinguished observers
were thus induced to inquire further. They found that in all Amphibia, as Ser
pents, Lizards, &c., in Birds, and in Mammalia, the entire surface of the mucous
membrane of the oviduct presents this glittering motion (Flimmert) ; also the

Itmucous membrane of the respiratory passages to their most minute subdivisions.

    could not be observed in the mucous membrane of the glottis, of the vocal
ligaments, of the mouth or gullet (Nasen-schleimhaut appears from the context
to be a misprint for Rachen-schleimhaut), of any part of the digestive tube or
its appendages. So much the more remarkable was the observation of it in the
nose, whilst the phenomenon ceased exactly on the limits of these parts. Its
presence serves as a sure criterion, where the membrane exactly begins to form
a part of the respiratory organ. In the Amphibia, as the Salamander, where the
mouth is not merely for swallowing, but is also a respiratory organ, the motion
is very lively. The phaenomenon could not be perceived in any fishes which
were examined; but appeared to the authors, as far as their observations have
hitherto extended, to be confined to the mucous surface of the respiratory organs,
and of the female generative organs in Amphibia, Birds, and Mammalia. Such
portions of the mucous membrane are provided with cilia, according to these

observations.
128 FOURTH REPORT -- 1834.

stances. But Blundell's experiments prove, that diminution of
quantity is not so immediately hurtful to life as alteration of the
quality of the blood. Three fourths or more of all the blood in
the body may be removed, and the animal still live. When a
Dog had been rendered apparently dead by the loss often ounces
of blood, it was recovered by transfusion of two ounces. This
vital influence of the blood is shown by Prevost and Dumas to
depend not so much upon the serum as upon the red particles.
An animal bled to insensibility, is not revived by serum of the
proper temperature, but is by blood from which the fibrin has
been removed by stirring. But with respect to quality, changes
of this, slight in appearance, produce important effects. Blundell
found, that when he had drawn blood from a Dog's artery, and
reinjected it into a vein before coagulation had commenced, (per
forming the operation until more blood had been thus transfused
than equalled the whole weight of the animal,) though it reco

vered, it was ill for several days with oppressed respiration and
impeded action of the heart. When an animal, therefore, is re
vived with blood of another of the same species, we may sup

pose that the operation is not entirely without danger of ill con
sequences. But when this is effected with blood from an animal
of a different genus, the consequence is generally fatal. Of dogs
revived with human blood, some died shortly after the operation,
some on the following, others on the sixth day. When Pre
vost and Dumas transfused Calves' blood into Kittens or Rabbits,

they seldom survived the sixth day : the pulse becoming quick,
the warmth diminished, the evacuations bloody. The transfusion
of the blood of an animal                    of another class, i.e.  with
shaped globules, almost                      always causes death.           differently
                                                                       If  blood with
round particles be injected into the veins of a bird, it dies with
symptoms of poisoning from substances which act on the ner

vous system*.
With respect to transfusion we cannot but assent to the fol

lowing judicious observations of Burdach. The blood of every
creature is in as special a relation to it as are any, the most im
                         of   its body, and is its
portant,  aorerg. ansIt   is  under the necessity   own production as       much
as they                                             of making its own       blood

for its own purposes. When an animal, therefore, is saved from
death by means of transfusion, it is saved by a mode which in
troduces into its system causes of derangement in all its func
tions, and which it must throw off by its powers of secretion be
fore healthy action can be restored.

in Nhyisstleenct'sureesxpfe, rismeeemntst,o  and those lately detailed by   Majendie
                                             prove, that air injected into  the veins

· Dieffenbach, quoted by Miiller.                   f Lancet, No. viii. 1834.
       UEPORT ON ANIMAL PHYSIOLOGY.                               129

destroys life by mechanical interruption of the circulation. For
small quantities even of irrespirable gases (except nitrous, sul

phuretted-hydrogen, and ammoniacal gases,) are not fatal.
The interesting and difficult inquiry into the causes which
produce coagulation of the blood has lately been ably resumed

by Mr. Prater. His numerous comparative experiments show
how important an element is the quantity of the agent which
modifies that process : that the same agent which in a large
quantity altogether prevents coagulation, in a small quantity
favours it. He con firms also the fact, announced by Schroeder
Van der Kolk, that as the proportion of serum is relatively in
creased, (as it is in blood last drawn,) so is the tendency to coagu
lation also increased. The impression derived from his works
is one which strengthens our belief generally in the views of
Hunter ; viz. that no theory can satisfactorily explain the phae
nomena of coagulation which has not a regard to the vital pro
perties of the blood ; properties whose variations we are not yet
able to connect with those corresponding alterations in the com
position and aggregation of its molecules which we cannot but
believe to accompany them. Mr. Prater attempts to infer from
his experiments what the vital properties of the blood are which
have hitherto been ascertained ; viz. vital elasticity (irritability),
and contractility. See Essay on the Blood, and Experimental
Inquiries in Chemical Philosophy.
    The Powers which circulate the  Blood. -- From  the  observa

tions of Prevost and Dumas, of Baer, and of Baumgaertner, we

find that many important organs of the body are traced out in
the primitive matter of the germ, before there is any indication
of blood or of vessel to contain it. According to Baumgasrtner*,
the motion of the blood is first perceptible in the Frog and Sala
mander seven or eight days after the rudiments of the brain and
cord are visible, and even twenty- five days after that time in the
Trout. In the same way rudimentary shapes, corresponding to
skin and organs of sense, muscle and bone, digestive and respi
ratory organs, are traced out in the original organic matter be
fore they receive any blood. The vessels and the blood which
make up the first circulation between the vascular area and the
heart, are formed simultaneously from the granular mass which
has accumulated between the serous and mucous laminae of the

germinal membrane. The granules, gathering together into iso

lated masses, present fissures between them containing a yellow
ish fluid which gradually becomes red. The fissures increase in
number; the masses diminish in individual magnitude, whilst

they extend the vascular area over a larger space. In these
* Beobachlungen uber dot Blut und die Nerven, quoted by Burdach.
       K
1834.
130 FOURTH REPORT-- 1834.

fissures, G. F. Wolff first traced the gradual formation of the
walls of the vessels, and the conversion of the fluid into blood
by the included masses. The formation of the heart is effected
similarly from the granular mass.
When, therefore, the junction between the vascular area and

heart has been effected, and the blood moves onwards by means
of the heart's contractions, the direction which it takes is not in

determinate as it would be if left to the influence of that power
alone. On the contrary, its course is determinate; it seeks the

different organs whose lineaments are perceptible, being soli
cited thereto by the vital attraction which is now established be
tween them. The streams which reach them vary in size, and sub
divide through their masses in a way so peculiar for each organ,
that even in the adult and perfect form, each of them preserves
a mode of branching for its main vessels, and a figure for its
capillaries, which are found in no other. What, therefore, is es
sential in the circulation of the blood, is an attraction subsisting
between the particles of each organ and the particles of the
blood, and a subsequent repulsion between the same, that which
is repelled by one set of organs being attracted by another. What
are the physical conditions of the organs and of the blood under
which the phaenomena are effected, has not been determined.
Some have supposed that the particles of the organs and of the
arterial blood are in different states of electric polarity. Accord
ing to them, the organ, as the more fixed, attracts the blood ;

communicates to it its own electric state, and then repels it. It fol
J.lows, therefore, that arterial and venous blood are in opposite elec
tric states.  Miiller, however, could discover no electric cur
rent by the galvanometer, when one of its wires was placed in
an artery,    the other in a vein of a living animal.
   Though     a negative experiment of this kind is not            conclusive, --
fmoertethr,e--elyeecttDricutroorcghanet'soof pthineioSnilutrhuast
                                                                   does not affect the   galvano
                                                                   the red particles in  the blood
perform the office of galvanic plates, and his belief that he had
effected the formation of muscular fibre by galvanizing a drop of
serum, cannot be supported. His ingenious experiments are de
tailed in the Annaies des Sciences Arahirelles, 1831, p. 400. They
have been repeated by Miiller, who has shown that the supposed
muscular fibre is merely a collection of granules of albumen, with
out consistence, coagulated by the acid of the decomposed salts
of the serum ; and that there is no sufficient reason for conclud
ing that colouring matter and fibrin (the nuclei of the red par
ticles according to Dutrochet,)    are  viintaloappttorsaitcetioenl,eacstrIiccosntacteeivse*,.
                                   of
It is on this principle, however,

              * Miiller, Physiologic, p. 132.
            REPORT ON ANIMAL PHYSIOLOGY.                            131

that the phaenomena of local inflammation, of determination of
blood to particular regions, the emptiness of the arteries after
         &c., are to be explained*. It
death,  of these instances. It may also be  may be abnormal, as in
many                                        suspended or destroyed.
Nervous influence seems to be a condition of its continuance,

where the animal has nerves. It is stated that when the main
artery of a limb is tied, the circulation is not maintained by

anastomosing branches if the nerve be also tiedf. Many have
recorded that in persons bled to fainting, the blood which last
issues from the vein is arterial in colour.

The capillary vessels themselves seem to contribute nothing
to the motion of the blood : the diameter of the small threads of

blood in any of them is not seen to be in the least variable, whilst

the heart's action continues the same and the muscles are at rest.

They are intermediate between the minute arteries and the minute
veins, and continually anastomose. Dr. Marshall Hall states that
he has in vain sought for instances of the immediate termination
of a minute artery in a minute vein : they all first pass into
capillaries. In this way it is that the blood is brought into near
contact with the parenchyme of the various tissues, and the pro

cesses of nutrition effected. It was the opinion of the older
physiologists that all the minute arteries did not thus terminate,
but that some ended by open mouths, thus allowing the blood
itself to enter into the composition of the different organs of the

body. If, however, the transparent parts of living animals be ob

served, all the particles of blood are observed to pass from the
minute arteries through the network of the capillaries, and by
these to enter into the veins. The minute anatomy of glands also
shows that the last divisions of their ducts are closed tubules ;

that on these the capillary vessels are largely distributed, but
never pass into them. The smallest visible capillaries are those
which convey red particles of the blood in single files ; their dia
meter therefore is about the TTI1T7iJdth part of an inch. That there
are others  so small as  merely to  pchoynsvieoylogthisetsl.ympIth  of the blood
is however  the opinion   of many                                   was the opi

nion of Haller, and Bichat, and Bleuland that there are such
vessels ; the contrary that of Mascagni and Prochaska, and of
Scemmerring in his later writings. The primitive fibres both of
muscle and of nerve are smaller, considerably, than the least vi

sible capillaries.

   In the lowest animals, this vital attraction between the mole

cules of their body and the nutrient fluid which penetrates, by
imbibition, their uniform mass, appears to be sufficient for the
purposes of their ceconomy. But in higher creatures, a moving

* Kalken Brenner, Majendie's Journal, viii. 81.  t Baumgsertner.
                                            K2
132 FOURTH REPORT -- 1834.

power, afforded by the contraction of living solids, is necessary to
bring the nutrient matter within the influence of this attraction.
For in them the organs are gradually collected into distinct
masses and individualized, and their life depends upon the reci
procal action of these. That their activities may be maintained,
a common nutrient fluid is conveyed to them on the one hand,
and on the other, is brought into near contact with the air.
Wherever the heart exists, it is the principal moving power ; but
it does not exist until there is a distinct apparatus for aerating
the fluid. In the Medusae and some Polypi, the nutrient fluid is
the immediate product of digestion ; the digestive cavity supplies
the place of a heart, and tubules proceed from it through their
substance. In insects a single tube represents the heart : it pul
sates from behind forwards, and absorbs at every diastole a por
tion of a fluid mass which surrounds the intestine, and is the
product of digestion. Here the vessel scarcely ramifies, that
form being assumed by the respiratory apparatus which con
ducts the air to every part of the body. In the Crustacea the
heart begins to be concentrated; there are arteries and veins : the
single cavity of the heart receives the blood from the gills and
distributes it to the body. In the Mollusca the heart consists

of an auricle and ventricle. In the highest of this class, there
fore, it resembles the systemic heart of Mammalia; but in

some of the lowest it surrounds a part of the intestinal tube,
and in this respect they form a link between the others and those
animals in which the heart and digestive cavity are one and the

same organ. In the Vertebrata, wherever the heart is single it

belongs to the lungs; and here first the nutrient matter is ab
sorbed from the digestive cavity by peculiar vessels, and then
conveyed to the circulating system. As the pulsating vessel is
gradually concentrated, so also is the nervous system. When
the heart has the form of an oblong sac, the nervous system pre
sents a series of swellings connected by a single or double cord.

In the Mollusca the heart becomes more globose, whilst a cen
tral mass of nervous matter represents the brain, and in many

instances surrounds the oesophagus as the heart does the intes

tine in some. In vertebral animals the ganglionic chain becomes

a spinal cord, the ring a brain of a spheroidal shape, whilst the
heart is a more perfect central organ ; and here first a peculiar
system of nerves is appropriated to the nutrient apparatus (the
sympathetic), whilst there is a peculiar set of vessels for absorp
tion. Thus do the nervous and circulating systems appear to
advance simultaneously towards perfection, the one being a con
dition, but not a cause, of the other's existence. In all the ver
tebral animals the heart lies below the spinal cord and abdomi
                  REPORT ON ANIMAL PHYSIOLOGY.                                                             133

nal canal. In all the in vertebral it is placed above the gangli
onic string, and above the abdominal canal*.
Treviranus has given a table in which the weight of the heart
is compared with that of the body, in the different classes of ver
tebral                In the  iMn aAmmmphailbiaia,itfvroamriesj^frtoom^-^^ ;toinTF^ish;esin,
Birds,  animals.  to
        from j^        T£? ;
from 7j-y to -^jj. So that, assuming its power to circulate the
blood through the body to be in proportion to its weight rela
tively to that of the body, he concludes that its influence de
creases with the descent of the animal in the series f.
Whether the arteries in any degree assist the heart in effecting
the circulation of the blood, is a question upon which physiolo
gists are by no means agreed. That the heart is able to perform
this office alone, is proved by those cases where the circulation
in the limb was continued, though the main arteries were com
pletely ossified and incapable of contraction; and that it does do
so in all cases has been inferred, from the fact that there is no

systole and diastole observable in the smaller arteries and ca
pillaries, whilst the blood is seen to flow more quickly in the
veins on contraction of the heart. PoisseuilleJ has detailed ex
periments in which he has shown that the artery certainly dilates
and contracts under the heart's action, which had been denied

by Bichat and Parry, the cause of the pulse assigned by them
being a motion of the entire artery in space, without alteration
of diameter. By means of a metal cylinder capable of being
opened like a box, he surrounded a portion of the carotid artery

of a horse with water. A small graduated glass tube projected
from the cylinder : the water rose and fell in the tube on expan
sion and contraction of the heart, thus evincing the varying vo
lume of the artery. With another apparatus he measured the
recoil of                                                                   of                             it from
the body.  theAsagmlaessatrutebrey,whaasvifnixgeddettoacehaecdh  a portion  of                             the ar
                                                                 extremity
tery laid horizontally. Both tubes then turned perpendicularly
downwards for a space ; then one perpendicularly upwards, the
other upwards at an angle of 45°. The former had a stop-cock
at the extremity near the artery, the other at the distant extre
mity. The artery, filled with water, was submitted to a given
pressure by mercury and water, which filled the oblique tube,
and mercury alone, which balanced it in the other. The artery
being thus distended, the stop-cocks were turned. When that
at the extremity of the oblique tube was opened, the recoil of the
Xt ·

                                               p.

                                                     it,

                                                                                                       p.
                                                                                                    a
artery caused the mercury to rise in and to drive off portion

fide Burdach, vol. iv. 451.                                      225. 1831.
Erscheimtngen und Gesetze des OrganiscUtn Lebens,
Majendie's Journal, vol. ix. p. 48.

                                                                                                                    s
134 FOURTH REPORT 1834.

of the water. The perpendicular height of the remaining co
lumn of water appeared to show that the contractile power of
the artery was greater than the power which dilated it by fifteen
millimetres of mercury. We suppose, however, that little can
be concluded from this experiment respecting the quantity of the

contractile force of the artery in the living body. It is placed
in the experiment in very different conditions. Being forcibly
dilated between fixed points, its coats represent in the longitu
dinal direction a series of elastic cords, which are forced into

curves, and the whole effect is due in part to the recoil of these,
and in part to that of the circular fibres.
   The elasticity of arteries, which lasts after death until decom
position takes place, differs from that vital exertion of it called
tonicity, which is soon extinguished. By means of the two,
particularly the latter, the artery always adapts itself to its con

tents. In consequence of the latter alone, the artery is smaller
shortly after death than after the lapse of several hours. I know
of no experiments which satisfactorily indicate any rapid con
traction of arteries, which can be referred to muscularity. Their
middle coat, in which that property has been supposed to reside,
has been shown by Berzelius to differ from muscle, in being
more elastic, in having less combined fluid, in being insoluble
in acetic acid, soluble in mineral acids, but not precipitable from
the solution by potass. Its fibre affords no trace of the trans
verse striae which Hodgkin and Lister regard as a peculiar cha
racteristic of muscle.
The pulse, depending upon dilatation of the arteries from the
force of the left ventricle, has until lately been by many supposed

to be synchronous throughout the body. E. H. Weber, after
Sosmmerring, Majendie, Stocks and Carlisle, has shown that it is
not exactly so ; and for the reason that the arteries are not rigid
tubes. The blood driven by the heart into elastic tubes, distends
them by an undulation which is progressive. The pulse, which
is the distension of the vessel, is synchronous only at equal di
stances from the heart, and in arteries at considerable distances
from the heart follows its beat by one sixth or one seventh of a

second.    --  Poisseuille,  in order to ascertain  the force with which

   Heart.

the heart drives the blood into the aorta, has repeated some of
Hales's experiments in a more accurate manner. His appara
tus consisted of a glass tube, bent into a semicircle, so that its
branches were parallel. The shorter of these was again bent at
right angles, and nearly to this level the parallel branches were
filled with mercury. What remained of the shorter still empty,

together with its horizontal portion, was filled with a solution of
            REPORT ON ANIMAL PHYSIOLOQF.                        135

subcarbonate of soda, in order to prevent coagulation of the blood
when the extremity of the horizontal portion was introduced into
an artery. The instrument being so introduced, the mercury
was found to oscillate in the parallel branches ; and the degree of
oscillation and altitude of the mean point was measured by means
of a graduated scale on the long limb, when the instrument was
held so that this should be perpendicular. The oscillation was
caused by the respiration of the animal, the mercury falling on
inspiration and rising on expiration. The mid point was found
(correction being made for the weight of the column of solution
of subcarb. sod. in the short branch,) to stand always at the
same place, whatever artery it might be into which the instru
ment was introduced, upon an average of many observations for
each ; and gave the height of a column of mercury equal to the
mean pressure of the heart, thus shown to exert the same force
throughout the whole arterial system. This mean pressure, mul
tiplied by the area of the aorta, gives the statical force of the left
ventricle.

    The mean pressure was found to be in no degree proportional
to the weight of the heart, and to differ so little in animals of
very unequal size that Poisseuille is disposed to attribute the
variations to individual circumstances of health, age, &c. ; and
thinks it not unreasonable to conclude that the blood is moved
in great and small animals, and in different species, with the same
force. From such principles it will follow, that the statical force
of the heart in different animals will be proportional to the
square of the diameter of their aortas. The mean pressure in
the Dog, the Horse, the Mare, was between the limits 140 and
180 millimetres. Taking the mean of these limits, and measur
ing the aorta, the weight of a column of mercury equal to the
statical force of the heart (that with which the blood moves in
the aorta) is found in Man to equal 4 lbs. 3oz. ; in the Horse,
lOlbs. lOoz. The statical force with which the blood moves in

the radial artery in man under the same pressure equals half an

ounce.

  If the account which I have given of the beat of the pulse be
Icorrect, that of the heart against the sides of the chest      will de
pend upon the contraction of the ventricles.             ought
                                                                to men

tion, however, that Corrigan, and Carson, and Burdach are op

posed to this opinion, and rather deduce the beat from the dis
tension of the ventricles, the contraction of the auricles imme

diately  Iprehcaevdeinfgountdhatonof   the  ventricles.    The last experiment
which                                 this  subject is
                                                         that of Miiller*, per
formed in conjunction with Prof. Albers. The chest of a Goat

            * Physiologie, p. 165.
136 FOURTH REPORT-- 1834.

was opened : whilst the animal lay on its back, the heart was vi
sibly elevated during the contraction of the ventricles, and even
the apex turned upwards. When the hand was laid upon the
heart, the perceptible quivering was so powerful and so moraen-
taneous, that it appeared impossible to assign the beat against
the ribs to any other cause than the systole of the ventricles, for
no agitation could be felt during the diastole.

   This conclusion agrees with that which Mr. Carlisle derived
from his experiments. The dissections also of this gentleman
account for the tilting of the apex of the heart. The muscular
fibres, which pass from the basis to the apex, are found by him
to be considerably longer on the front than on the back part.
They contract therefore more : the apex is drawn towards the
basis, but at the same time forward*.

    The causes of the two sounds which are perceptible by aus
cultation, and which occur between two consecutive beats of
the heart, are scarcely yet determined to the satisfaction of phy
siologists. The dull and more enduring sound is quickly followed
by one which is clearer and more brief, as was first well defined
by Laennec. They follow each other with a slight interval, and
then there is a pause. Laennec attributed the first to the con
traction of the ventricles, the other to that of the auricles ; but
the interval between the sounds does not correspond to the in

terval between these contractions. All appear to be agreed that

the first sound is synchronous with the pulse at the heart, and
therefore they assign the cause of this as the cause also of the
first sound. Thus, Corrigan and others deduce the first sound
from the contraction of the auricles, the second from that of the
ventricles ; Williams, the first from the contraction of the ven
tricles, the second from the action of the valves; Hope, the first
from the contraction of the ventricles, the second from the ex

pansion of the ventricles by the blood f.
   Majendie, in a memoir read before the Academy of Sciences

of Paris, February 1834, has lately objected to all these explana
tions. He could perceive no sounds when the heart was laid
bare; and therefore concludes that they cannot proceed from the
respective play of its different cavities, nor from the action of the
heart upon the blood, nor of the blood upon the heart. He then
institutes a set of experiments, in order to discover the true
cause of the phaanomena in question. He found that though all
sound ceased when the sternum was removed, yet when elastic
bodies were brought in contact with the heart, sounds, variable
according to the nature of those bodies, were produced : when

       · Vide Reports of the British Association, vol. ii. p. 456.

      t Compare Carlisle, loc. cit., p. 458.
             REPORT ON ANIMAL PHYSIOLOGY.                         137

the sternum of a Goose was raised and replaced, the sound was
annihilated and reproduced at pleasure ; when air or water was
injected into the left pleura, so as to keep the heart at a distance
from the thorax, no sound could be perceived. Further, he found

that if he introduced a slip of metal, thin and flat, into the thorax
of a Dog, so as to prevent the shock of the apex of the heart
against the parietes of the thorax, though the heart acted vio
lently, the dull sound ceased ; if introduced so as to prevent the
right ventricle touching the thorax, the clear sound ceased.
Majendie hence deduces the first sound from resonance of the
thorax, caused by the stroke of the apex ; and the second from
resonance of the thorax, caused by the impulse afforded by the
heart, under sudden dilatation from the influx of blood, to the
anterior parietes of the right side of the chest.
Bouilland, in a letter to the Academy of Sciences, has pro
tested against Majendie's explanation ; asserting that it does
not satisfy the conditions, and raises a doubt concerning the va
lidity of that theory alone which assigns the double sound to the
play of the valves ; (Romanet, in a recent inaugural dissertation,
having maintained that the one sound arises from the shock given
by the blood to the tricuspid and mitral valves, the other to the
shock on the sigmoid valves of the aorta and pulmonary artery ;

and E. L. Bryan the same in the Lancet.) Bouilland further

alleges his own experiments. No sounds were heard when the
heart pulsated being emptied of its blood; they were heard when
the heart in situ was laid bare, and had no connexion with the

walls of the thorax. He further objects, that Majendie's theory
does not account for the varieties of sound produced by organic
lesions of the valves ; nor for the fact, that sounds may be heard,
as though distant, when fluid fills the pericardium and prevents
the heart from reaching the thorax.
Here this subject rests for the present ; but Majendie has un
dertaken to examine, in a second part of his memoir, whether his
explanation will account for all the particular circumstances con
nected with  each of the           --of
   Cause of  the Heart's   sounds         the heart.   observing  that the
                                         Haller, from
                          Action.

heart continues to beat for a considerable time even when re

moved from the body ; and that its contractions, in the body,
may be affected by the direct application of mechanical and che
mical stimuli to its fibres, whilst he could not influence them by
irritation of the cardiac nerves, concluded that its power of con
traction is inherent, and totally independent of the nervous sy
stem. His theory was afterwards fortified by the dissections of
Scemmerring and Behrends, which appeared to show that the
cardiac nerves are distributed to the vessels of the heart alone.
138 youR-rn report -- 1834.

And even after Fowler, Humboldt, and others had stated that the
heart may be stimulated by galvanizing its nerves, and Scarpa
had demonstrated that these are distributed to its substance as
in other muscles, Haller's theory, though vehemently opposed
at first, came to be very generally received. It, however, met a
formidable opponent in Le Gallois, who published, in 1812, an
essay, containing results of numerous experiments, from which
it appeared that the heart's power is altogether derived from the
spinal cord. He found, that if a Rabbit be decapitated, the heart's
action is continued, artificial respiration being performed ; that

if a portion of the cord be destroyed, as in the lumbar region,
the heart is unable to support the circulation, in a Rabbit twenty
days old, longer than four minutes, whilst it is continued in one
two days old ; and that the destruction of the cervical and dor
sal portions of the cord are still more suddenly fatal to the
heart's action. He observed, on destroying successive portions
of the cord, that even when the circulation is suddenly arrested
life ceases, on the instant, only in those parts which derive their
nerves from that portion of the cord which has been destroyed,
continuing for a time in the rest of the body ; that this time is
greater the nearer the animal is to the epoch of its birth, and is
determinate for each species. He concluded that those parts
which die last, on partial mutilation of the cord, die because the
power of the heart has been so much weakened that the circula
tion through the entire arteries cannot be maintained. He hence

inferred, that if the work to be performed by the heart were
diminished in proportion as its power was lost, the circulation

might be supported. He found, accordingly, that if the aorta
was tied opposite to the part of the cord to be destroyed, the
circulation was continued through the remaining portion of the
trunk in connexion with the heart. His general conclusions
were, that the heart has no intrinsic power, but that it derives
its power from every part of the spinal cord ; that each part of
the body is animated by that part of the cord from which its
nerves arise ; that the sympathetic system of nerves has its ori
gin in the spinal cord, and not in the ganglia, its office being to
bring the parts to which it is distributed within the influence of
the whole nervous power of the cord ; that the motions of the
heart which are visible after excision from the body, are similar
to those which may be excited in other muscles after they have
been for some time dead, and are merely
                                         cadaveric phaenomena.
   In 1818, Dr. Wilson Philip published
                                         his essay on the laws of
the vital functions, and reviewed Le Gallois' experiments and
observations*. By unexceptionable experiments he showed,
* The first experiments of Dr. Philip are in the Phil. Trans, for 1815.
REPORT ON ANIMAL PHYSIOLOGY.                139

that if the sensibility of the Rabbit be destroyed by a blow on the

head, the brain and spinal cord may be entirely removed, the
heart still continuing to act. By other experiments he showed,
that (the sensibility of the animal being destroyed,) the heart may
be excited to act more powerfully by stimuli applied to any part

of the brain and cord ; that if the stimulus be very powerful, as

crushing the central parts of the nervous system suddenly, the
action of the heart is suppressed. He infers from hence that
the mode in which Le Gallois destroyed the cord exhausted at
once the excitability of the heart in those instances in which it
entirely ceased to act, and impaired it in others. He remarked
that the increased action of the heart could generally be observed
as long as the stimulus, whether chemical or mechanical, was
applied, unless it was of a nature to produce the sedative after the
stimulant effect ; and inferred that the former is a direct opera
tion of the agent, when it is observed, and not a consequence of
the latter. Dr. Philip therefore concludes, with Le Gallois, that
the functions of the cord are independent of the brain ; and that
the heart is acted upon by every part of the cord. But he dis
proves altogether Le Gallois' opinion that the irritability of the
heart is a quality derived from the cord. He proves that it re
ceives no power from the central parts of the nervous system ;
but that nervous influence, like any other stimulant, is capable
of exhausting its excitability ; that it is acted upon not by the
cord alone, but by every part of the central masses, the brain
and cord : obeying a much less powerful stimulus than the mus
cles of voluntary motion, but that the stimulus must extend over
a large surface of the brain or cord to affect the heart.

    Flourens*, from his experiments on fishes, concludes that the
power of the heart is inherent, and is influenced only by destruc
tion of that part of the nervous system whose integrity is neces
sary for respiration, the medulla oblongata.

   Dr. Marshall Hallf, making the Frog and Eel the subjects of

his experiments, because the transparency of parts at different
distances from the heart (in the former the web and lungs,
in the latter the caudal, dorsal, and pectoral fins,) allowed him
to test the varying power of the heart to circulate the blood,
has deduced the following conclusions : that the heart's action
is enfeebled from the moment it is deprived, at once, of the in
fluence of the brain and cord ; that it possesses an independent
irritability, which however, like that of the voluntary muscles,
is lost after the organ has been separated from the central masses
of the nervous system ; that the circulation is first enfeebled,
then lost, in the most distant parts of the body from the heart,

· Mem. de llmtilut, tom. x.  t Euay, 1831.
140 FOURTH REPORT 1834.

then in parts less and less remote ; but that the power of cir
culation in each part does not depend upon that portion of the
cord from which it derives its nerves. He has proved, by de
cided experiments, that Flourens' opinion of the dependence of
the power of the heart upon that part of the central nervous
masses which supplies the nerves to the respiratory muscles is

unfounded, if that could be doubtful after Cliffs experiments on
the Carp, published in the Phil. Trans. 1815. Dr. Marshall Hall
could not observe that opium or spirit of wine, applied to the
brain or cord, accelerated the circulation, as recorded by Dr.
Wilson Philip.
From these several experiments we conclude : that the heart's
power is inherent, and not derived from the brain or cord ; that
it is under the influence of every part of the brain and cord ;
that it endures for a time, even when the heart is separated from

the body.

   The rhythmical contraction of the heart is an instance of that
periodicity which occurs in all involuntary motions, even in the
minute oscillations of the fibre on which the contractions of
those muscles depend which we call voluntary. The whole con
traction in the one case is periodical, for the stimulus is constantly
recurring ; in the other the stimulus is dependent on the will.
Though the successive presence of the blood in the different ca
vities of the heart may, as Haller explained, be the ordinary sti
mulus to its activity, yet it cannot be the only one, for the rhyth
mical contraction occurs when the heart is empty, and even when
placed in vacuo. Why then does the heart continue to act under
such circumstances, and what is the stimulus ? We have seen,
from consideration of the growth of the embryo, that organic
activity depends upon the mode in which matter is compounded
under the assimilative process. Those organs which receive
more blood, are more active than those which receive less ; and

such as are liable to be called into sudden and excessive action,

as the voluntary muscles, receive most blood of all : the blood
is there for assimilation as it is wanted ; aerated blood, proper

temperature, and most probably nervous influence being neces
sary conditions of the process by which each creature is enabled
to maintain that form and mixture of its parts which is neces
sary to their life. Nutrition, then, or a constant interchange
between the particles of the organ and of the blood, being neces
sary, it follows that something has occurred in the organ during
its active state, some alteration, which requires repair. Activity
has caused a change in   tIhfatthecormesptoorsaittiioonn  of its molecules which
nutrition must restore.                                   do not occur, the sub

sequent reaction is different, or is impossible. The heart, when
REPORT ON ANIMAL PHYSIOLOGY.  141

removed from the body, responds to stimulation as long as the
composition of its tissue is such as to render it capable of doing

so. The stimulus may be the blood remaining in its vessels, if

its cavities be empty ; or may be the nervous influence which,
there is reason to suppose, remains in its nerves for a time after
they have been cut off from communication with the brain and
cord. Under these two conditions it is even possible that a low
degree of assimilation may yet go on, which however can never
completely restore the state which the fibre possessed at the
time when any individual contraction was performed. The ex
citability at length ceases. But even without this supposition,
stimuli which do not at the same time afford food for the nutri

tive process, can, if food be not otherwise supplied, merely

exhaust. The final cause of this perdurance of a certain degree
of irritability in the heart, even when nutritive supply and ner
vous energy are suspended or imperfect, is obvious.

    Dr. Carson has pointed out the effect which the empty state
of the auricles produces upon the circulation in the veins, im
parting to the heart the power of a sucking instrument ; and
also the effect of the resilient or elastic nature of the pulmonary
tissue in subjecting the heart to a less atmospheric pressure
than the rest of the body*.

   J.Poisseuille, by means of his barometrical instrument, has

 confirmed Sir Barry's conclusions respecting the effect of in
 spiration on the venous circulation, as far as the large vessels
 near the heart are concerned. When the instrument was in
 troduced into the vein of a Dog, towards the heart, the mercury
 rose 60 millimetres above the zero point during expiration, and
 fell 70 m. below it during inspiration ; the degree of rise and fall
 varying with the struggles of the animal, but occurring syn
 chronously with the respiratory movements. He did not find
 that inspiration at all influenced the veins of the extremities ;
 but he confirmed Majendie's observation, that expiration assists
 not only the motion of the blood in the arteries, but that its
 effect extends through the capillaries to the veins ; the blood
 rose in them all during expiration, (the instrument being at
 tached to the peripheral portion in the case of the veins,) and
 during the systole of the heart.

    From all these experiments we conclude, that the heart sup
 plies the power which effectually moves the blood in the higher
 animals, not only through the arteries (to which Bichat con
 fined its effect), but also through the capillaries and the whole
 venous system ; that it is assisted by the elastic power of the
 arteries after they have been distended by the heart's action upon

                          · Inquiry into the Causes of Respiration, fyc.
142 FOURTH REPORT -- 1834.

the blood; assisted also by pressure, whether atmospheric or
otherwise, on account of the disposition of the valves in the ar
teries and in the veins ; that the vis d, tergo is more effectual
during expiration ; and that the return of the blood to the heart
is facilitated by the empty state of the auricles and by inspira
tion ; that the vital attraction and repulsion between the mole
cules of the organs and of the arterial and venous blood is a con
current cause.

    Hering has published some valuable experiments* made with
a view to determine the time in which the circulation is effected.
His method was to pour a solution of some harmless substance,
easy of detection by tests, as prussiate of potass, into a vein ; and
to determine, by observation of the blood taken from another
distant vessel at short intervals, how soon the presence of the
injected solution could be discovered in the latter. In Horses
it passed from one jugular vein through the lungs and great cir
culation, and was detected in the opposite jugular vein in a time
varying from 20 to 25 and from 25 to 30 seconds ; from the
jugular to the saphama, in 20s; from the jugular to the external
maxillary artery, in from 10" to 15", and in another instance
from 20s to 25s ; from the jugular to the metatarsal artery from
20s to 25s, and from 25s to 30" ; once it required 40s.

   From other experimentsf Hering has concluded that the ve
locity of the blood is independent of the frequency of the heart's
action. The prussiate of potass was not detected more quickly
than usual when the heart's action had, in numerous instances,
been greatly quickened by infusion of tinct. of white hellebore,
camphorated spirit, &c. If, with Hales, we estimate the weight
of a horse at 800lbs., and his blood at 401bs., which is certainly
not too high an estimate, and allow ten ounces to be thrown
from the heart at each systole, (the greatest possible quantity,)
then l"1 37s will be the least time in which the whole mass of
the blood will go through the heart*. And though the circula
tion consists not of one, but of many circles, the smallest being
that of which the course through the coronary vessels of the
heart forms part, and though each of these circles be performed
in a different time, yet it appears difficult to make any probable
supposition respecting the circuit taken by the substances in
jected in the above instances which will satisfy the rapidity
with which they were detected. How then is their quick trans
ference to be explained? Probably, as is suggested by M iiller,
the foreign fluid diffuses itself through the mass of the blood
more rapidly than the latter circulates.

·  Zeiitchrift fur  Physiologic,  vol.  iii.  f Zeitschrift, vol. v. part I.

J  Burdach.
                                         143

Re--poBrty   on the  RReevc.enLteoPrnoagrrdessJeannydxPsr,esMen.tA.S,taFte.Lo.Sf .ZoFo.lZog.Sy..
               the
F.C.P.S.

The following Report has been drawn up at the request of the
ISection for Natural History of the British Association.
                                                                                   can
not but express my regret that the task has not devolved upon
abler hands. The science of Zoology comprises such a wide
field, and so much has been effected in that field by the researches
of modern times, that it is difficult for any individual to obtain
a correct knowledge of all that is going on in different coun
tries in its several particular departments. Still more difficult
is it to form in all cases a true estimate of the relative import
ianngcetooflitghhet,m--antoy  facts and  discoveries which are
                              judge of   their mutual bearing          every day com
                                                                       on each other,
and their more or less immediate tendency to advance the pro
gress of     Ithat science for the interests of which they
forward.                                                                           are brought
                 must therefore hope for much indulgence                            from those
                              this attempt, what it
who may discover in           as well as omissions*.          is  almost impossible
to avoid, many errors                                             have endeavoured
                                                               I
to avail myself of whatever sources were open to me, in order to
obtain the information requisite for the purpose ; but so numer
Ious are the channels through which such information is now

published, that can hardly hope to have gleaned on this sub
jecItt  all  which             exthpeactteIdshoofumlde.state
        is   right,  may be                                   in  the  outset,     in what
                     however,
point of view, and within what limits, I propose to consider this
subject. To follow it out in all its details would manifestly lead
me far beyond the bounds to which a Report of this nature must
necessarily be restricted. My intention, then, is principally to
notice those researches which of late years have tended to eluci
date the characters and affinities of the larger groups of animals,
and thereby to advance our knowledge of their natural arrange
ment. This will include the consideration of such systems as
              brought forwards            in   ilpluosintrta, tihoonwevoefr,thiIs   part of the
have been    With reference to           this                                      do not pur
subject.

pose commencing from an earlier period than 1817, the year of
publication of the Rigne Animal of Cuvier, whose general views
                     classification of animals have been
respecting the       which have appeared subsequently.                             the basis of
most of those
                                                                                    I propose,
nevertheless, in the first instance, to make a few general remarks
  I· fear that these omissions will be found rather numerous, with respect to

German works, some of which I have been unable to procure, whilst there are
probably others altogether unknown to me.
144 FOURTH REPORT 1834.

on the state of zoology in the early part of the present century,
and the circumstances which have led to the introduction of those
principles upon which it is now studied.

I. Introduction.

It is now generally acknowledged, that the true and legitimate
object of zoology is the attainment of the Natural System ; and
we may attribute it to this circumstance, and the consequent
close investigation of structure and affinity to which it has led
naturalists, that so striking a change has been effected of late
years in this science, causing it to assume an aspect at once cha
racteristic of a distinct epoch in its history. Little else ap
peared to be the aim of Linnaeus and his followers beyond
that of distinguishing species, and classing them simply in
accordance with some law of arrangement arbitrarily assumed
in the first instance, and too often pertinaciously adhered to in
utter disregard of the general organization ; and although it may
have been their endeavour to group together those species a-
mongst which there appeared a certain resemblance, yet they
did not hesitate in numberless instances to associate in the same
class and order, and often in the same genus, beings of the most
discordant nature, rather than  renounce the principle which
had adopted for their guide.                                  they
                                It is undoubtedly to Cuvier   that
we are most indebted for the striking improvements which be
gan to be made upon the Linnaean system towards the close of
the last century*. This great master of modern zoology saw
the importance of studying the entire organization of animals.
He traced the connexion which subsists between their internal
and external structure, observed how these accorded with their
habits and ceconomy, and perceived that in grounding a classi
fication of animals upon characters taken from these sources col
lectively, we should make a near approach towards grouping
them according to their true and natural affinities. Daubenton
and Pallas had already furnished some materials for such an un
dertaking, and by their exact descriptions, paved the way for a
more complete knowledge of animal structure ; but it was re
served for Cuvier to erect the building of which they may be
said to have only laid the foundation. Commencing with a re
investigation of the invertebrate animals, which, according to the
statement of the French naturalist, Linnaeus had left in a state

   * It is not meant that there were none others besides Cuvier who had any
share in effecting this change, but only that he appears the most prominent.
Bruguieres, Geoffroy St. Hilaire, Latreille, and Lamarck, especially the last, all
contributed to this end in their several departments. The labours of some of
these naturalists will be alluded to further on.
             REPORT ON ZOOLOGY.                                         145

of worse arrangement than that of Aristotle, he afterwards passed
on to that of the higher classes*, carrying with him that reform
which the new principles he had adopted pointed out to be ne
cessary. Cuvier's first memoir on the Invertebrate/, was offered
to the notice of the Natural History Society of Paris in 1795,
and the time should be remarked as commencing the aera of a most
important revolution in zoological science. His Tableau JSl emen-
taire lie I'Hist. Nat. des Animavx, containing a still further
development of his views, was only two years posterior to it.
This was followed by the Leqons d' Anatomie Comparie, pub
lished in 1800 and 1805 ; a rich series of memoirs on the mollus

cous animals, which appeared in the earlier volumes of the An-
nales du Museum; the Recherches sur les Ossemens Fossiles, of as

great service to zoology as geology, and much of which was also
first published in that collection ; and lastly, in 181 7, by theRegne
Animal, in which it was attempted to arrange all known animals
according to their natural affinities, as deduced from a compara
tive view of their whole organization.
   The above works, of some of which    I  shall        have  occasion  to

speak further hereafter, were not only important in themselves,
but in the consequences to which they led.

   In the first place, it is worthy of remark, that since these ad
mirable endeavours on the part of Cuvier to elucidate the true
relations of animals by reference to their internal as well as ex
ternal structure, and to the modifications, not of one or two ar

bitrarily selected organs, but of all the organs considered jointly,
naturalists have everywhere felt the necessity of guiding their
Ifresearches after the same manner, and building upon a similar
foundation.  zoology has made much progress, as undoubtedly
it has, since the publication of the first edition of the Regne Ani
mal ; if more enlarged views have been acquired of the science
as a whole, and a more correct knowledge gained of some of its

subordinate branches ; if new forms of structure have been dis

covered, and affinities brought to light, which at that time were
not even suspected to exist by its illustrious author ; this is great
ly due to the assistance which the science has derived from com
parative anatomy : and it must never be forgotten, that it was
Cuvier principally who first taught us, in the works above alluded
to, how to bring this great and powerful instrument to bear
upon the researches of the naturalist. Yet it must not be sup
posed from the intimate connexion which subsists between these
two sciences, that there is no line of distinction to be drawn

· In the arrangement of the Mammalia, Cuvier was much assisted by Geof
frey. Their joint labours in this department form the subject of a memoir pub
lished in the Magasin Encyclopidique, tom. ii. p. 161.

1834.        i.
146 FOURTH REPORT 1834.

between them. It is the object of the anatomist to investigate

the details of structure, and to record all facts connected with

the relative organization of animals. That of the zoologist is to

arrange these facts, and to make them subservient towards de
termining the natural affinities of animals. Hence the latter is
but little concerned with any details which do not exercise a
marked influence upon the manner of life, or with those minute

differences of structure which are not accompanied by corre
sponding differences in the rest of the organization*. What he
seeks for is a subordination of characters, selected in the order
of their importance, on which to build his system ; and to judge
of the value of any one in particular which anatomy presents to
him, he must trace by observation how far it is connected with
others, whether external or internal, or derived from the cecono-
my and mode of life, of which the value is known. On such a
comparison, it may prove of too small importance to assist in
determining the affinities of a single species. Yet we can hardly
pronounce that it may not be found of some value hereafter ;
for although it may not in itself be sufficient to establish an affi
nity, it may tend to corroborate our ideas respecting those which
would seem already indicated by other characters. And con
sidered in this view, even the minutest anatomical details may
prove of service to zoology. As an instance in point, we may
refer to Mr. Owen's recent discovery of a peculiar modification
of the stomach in the genus Semnopithecm\ . This genus had

been originally established by Geoffroy upon a slight difference

* It has been a complaint with some naturalists that zoology has of late
years been too much invaded by comparative anatomy, and that it has been in
danger of suffering from the encroachments of that allied science which was
originally called in to its assistance.  For remarks on this subject    the reader is
referred to the article Zoologie in the  Diet. Class. d'Hisl. Nat. (p.  727), and the
Introduction to the Hist. Nat. des Mammiferes, (p. 2, &c.) by M. Fred. Cuvier.
Mr. Swainson would also seem to say as much in his Preliminary Discourse on
the Study of Nat. Hist. (pp. 84, 169, &c), published since this Report was read.
To a certain extent there may perhaps be some ground for the complaint; but
it appears to me that it is only called for in those cases in which it has been
attempted to arrange animals solely from anatomical characters, no considera
tion being paid either to external form or to the habits and manner of life. We
may fall into the error of attaching too much importance to differences of inter
f

                                     i.
                                          p.

                                                        is

                                                I

                                                                       it
                                                                                       is

                                                                                                                                         is,
nal structure, as easily as we may in the case of those of external. The fact
the whole must be considered collectively, and  the relative value of the or

gans, when viewed in their mutual dependencies, which alone should decide
on which of them we are to base our system. But after having determined our
groups in this manner, we may generally succeed in finding, at least amongst
the higher animals, some external character by which they may be distin
          And wherever this    the case, fully agree with Mr. Swainson
guished.

(pp. 169 and 247), that for convenience sake such external characters should

be exclusively employed.
Zool. Trans., vol.
                          65.
                   11EPORT ON ZOOLOGY.                                           147

only in the dental system, and there were some doubts as to whe
ther it should be retained. Now, however, that we find it also

characterized by an accompanying difference in the internal or
ganization, its claims to be admitted as a distinct group in the
system are considerably strengthened. In another communica
tion this able anatomist has expressed                                           "thmatayevaedn
such details as tracing the convolutions  an opinion*,
                                          of the brain

vance   zoology,  by bringing to light  aodfditMioanmalminasltiaanc; e"s         of affi
nities  between   the different groups                                           and he

grounds this opinion upon the fact of his having observed a re
markable uniformity of structure in this organ, in groups which
have been long since well established upon other characters.
At the present day, however, it is amongst the lower animals
that the researches of the anatomist will most assist zoology.
The structure of the higher classes is in general well understood,
and it is not likely that any future discoveries in anatomy will
much affect our present arrangement of the leading groups in
those classes, however they may contribute to the perfecting the
details of the system. But amongst the Invertebrata it is far
otherwise. There we not only find large groups of animals of
whose internal structure we know but little, but they are often
groups in which the external characters cannot be trusted, and
in which it becomes necessary to resort to the same organs for
distinguishing orders, families, and even genera, which in the
Vertebrata would only be employed in characterizing classes, or
groups of a still higher denomination. This arises from the much
more variable structure of the lower animals, with which there

fore it becomes the more necessary for the zoologist to be ac

quainted.

Another circumstance which has in some measure resulted

from Cuvier's labours relates to the country in which these la
bours were exerted, and their fruits made public. His works
have had a manifest influence over his countrymen. Those who

surrounded him quickly adopted his new views and principles ;
and partly to this circumstance, partly to the magnificent esta

blishment of the Jardin des Plantes, are we to attribute the
gradual rise of a  stchheoohl igohfesztoorleopguytatiinonF. rancIte,iswohnilcyh
since maintained                                                                   has ever
                                                                                 necessary
to refer to some of the many valuable works which appeared
during the early part of the present century, in order to appre
ciate the zeal and success with which zoology was cultivated in
that country. Lamarck's Systeme des Animaux sans Vertebres
and Philosophic Zoologique, Dumeril's Zoologie Analytique,
Latreille's Hist. Nat. des CrustacSs et des Insectes, the Genera

                   l2* Zool. Trans., vol. i. p. 136.
148 FOURTH REPORT 1834.

Crust aceorum et Insectorum by the same author, Brongniart's

Essai d'une Classification Naturelle des Rejrtiles, Savigny's J/£-
moir es star les Animaux suns Vertebres, Lamouroux's Histoire
des Poli/piers Coralligenes Flexibles*, (not to      dwell upon
series of memoirs in the Annaies du Museum,                                a rich
                                                     Journal de
                                                                           Phy-
sique,&cc., by Geoffroy, Fred.Cuvier,Blainville, Peron, Lessueur,
and others,) all appeared before the publication of the Regne
Animal, and not only contributed greatly to the further illustra
tion of the natural system, but furnished many valuable hints to
Cuvier himself whilst engaged in that undertaking. England, we
fear, has but little to produce as the result of her labours in zoo
logy during the same period. Our countrymen were too much
riveted to the principles of the Linnaean school to appreciate
the value of the natural system. Although there were some good
descriptive works in different departments, and a few excellent
observers, amongst whom Montagu will ever hold a distinguished
place, there was in general but little attention paid to structure
with a view to elucidate the natural affinities of animals. The
most remarkable, if not the only exception is undoubtedly to be
found in Kirby's Monographia Apum Anglice, a work which,
though exclusively devoted to the illustration of a single Linnaean
genus of insects, presents a model for naturalists in all depart
ments, from the profound views of its very illustrious author.
There were few, however, who followed up the path which was
thus opened to them. There was a general repugnance to every
thing that appeared like an innovation on the system of Linnaeus;
and for many years subsequently to the publication of the above
work, which appeared as far back as in 1802, zoology, which
was making rapid strides in France and other parts                         of the Con
tinent, remained in this country nearly stationary.
                                                                           It is mainly
to Dr. Leach that we are indebted for having opened the eyes of
English zoologists to the importance of those principles which
had long guided the French naturalists. Whilst he greatly con
tributed to the advancement of the natural system by his own
researches, he gave a turn to those of others, and made the first
step towards weaning his countrymen from the school they had so
long adhered to. The following are the principal works which re
              Dr. Leach's  labours in zoology about  Cthreupsetariocdeoolfotigmve
sulted from      In 1813,  he published the article
referred to.

in the Edinburgh Encyclopcedia, in which he gave the system
of  Latreille, with  LsionmnaeeasnlighStocmieotdy,ific"atAiotnasb. ulaIrn
in  a paper to the                                                          1814, he gave,
                                                                           View of the ex-

   * In the above list I have not included the splendid volumes by Desmarest,
Vieillot, Audebert, &c, the object of which was more to illustrate species by

coloured plates than to treat of their systematic arrangement.
                                 REPORT ON ZOOLOGY.  149

ternal Characters of the four Classes of Crustacea, Myriapoda,
Arachnida, and Insecta, with the Orders and other Subdivisions
of the three first of these Classes." In the same year he com

menced the Zoological Miscellany, which, though principally
intended for the illustration of new or little known species, con
tains (the 3rd vol. especially, published in 1817,) an indication
of many new groups in different classes of zoology, with their
                natural affinities.   In 1815, he published the article
characters and  in the Edinburgh      Encyclopedia; and in the same

Entomology

year he commenced the Malacost rac.a Podophthalma Britannia,
which tended so much to our further knowledge of the Crustacea.
                                 Dr.  Leach also  wrote the articles Annulosa
aBnedsidCeisrrtiheceadbeosvei,n       Supplement   to the Encyclopaedia Britan-
                                 the

nica, the latter containing an entirely new classification of these

animals. It is much to be regretted, that soon afterwards the la
bours of this distinguished naturalist were interrupted by illness.
He had prepared and nearly completed a valuable work on the
British Mollusca, to the natural arrangement of which group he
had devoted great attention. Part of it was printed, though
never published. His other works, however, sufficiently testify

the obligations conferred by him on zoology. At the same time
they form a marked epoch in the history of this science, as con
nected with our own country. Since the time of their publica
Ition many

contribute
            other   aedxvcaenllceenmt ennat,tutroaliwsthsomhavIenaereisdenmaakmeonngostfuurtshetor
            to its

allusion at present, as of some shall find occasion to speak

hereafter.

II. Oftheprimary Types of Form, and other leading Divisions,

                           in the Animal Kingdom.

   Cuvier considered the animal kingdom as exhibiting four pri
mary types of form, to which he gave the names of Vertehruta,
Mollusca, Annulosa, and Radiata. The leading characters are
derived from the nervous system, which Virey was thefirst to point
out* as the most important part of their organization, and there
fore the most fit to be selected as the groundwork of the system.
Cuvier's first enunciation of this arrangement was in a memoir
published in the 19th vol. of the Ann. du Mus. in 1812, being five
years before the appearance of the llegne Animal. In it he ob
serves, that he regards these four types or general plans as those
after which all animals appear to have been modelled, and of
which the subordinate divisions are only comparatively slight mo
difications, founded on the development or addition of certain
parts, which produce no essential change in the original plan.

                       * Nouv. Diet. d'Hiit. Nat., Art Animal.
150 FOIRTH REPORT 1834.

Before the date of this memoir, naturalists had generally a-
dopted Lamarck's primary division of Vertebrate and Inverte
brate animals. Cuvier objected to this, on the ground that there
were as great differences of structure amongst these last, as any
of those by which they were separated from the vertebrate divi

sion. In his Hist. Nat. des An. sans Verteb. (the first volume of

which was published in 1815), Lamarck somewhat modified his
former views, by distributing animals under the three divisions
of Intelligent, Sensible, and Apathetic. As this arrangement,
however, is obviously objectionable, and has not met with much
rIescheapltliopnr,oceIeddo,                              it necessary to dwell further on it*.
                             not consider               notice some modifications of Cuvier 's
                             therefore, to

system which have been proposed by different authors, as well
as some new systems and principles of arrangement which
have appeared since the publication of the Regne Animal, and
Iwhich from their importance appear deserving of consideration.

    The first in order of time, with which am acquainted, is a
modification of Cuvier's primary divisions proposed by Geoffroy
in 1820,  and which          arionseanfirmomals.hisItpeiscunloiatr
unity of  composition                                                             views respecting the
                                                                                necessary at the pre
sent day to enter into any detailed analysis of these views, which
have been so long associated with the name of this distinguished
naturalist, and which belong more to the department of compa

rative anatomy than zoology. It is sufficient to state that Geof
froy, who had previously endeavoured to show that all vertebrate

animals were constructed so exactly upon the same plan as to
preserve the strictest analogy of parts in respect to their osteo

logy t, thought to extend this unity of plan by demonstrating,
as it appeared to him, that the hard parts of Crustacea and In

sects were still only modifications of the skeleton of higher ani
mals, and that therefore                           the type of  Vertebrata must be made to
                                                   impossible   in this Report to follow up
include them also. It is
the train of reasoning and anatomical research which guided
Geoffroy in his attempt to establish this theory. The general
results at which he arrives are, that the segments of the Annu-
losa are strictly analogous to the vertebrae of the higher animals,

· Although Lamarck's leading divisions are objectionable, there is much in
his system which is extremely
of the Iiwertebrata. He was                        valuable,   particularly   as respects the  arrangement
                                                    the first  to point out  that these last,
                                                                                               if placed ac

cording to their true affinities, must be considered as forming two distinct sub-
                                                                           and the other of the inarticu-
tramose series, one          acnoimnsailsst.in--g  of   the  articulated,   to his first volume, p. 457.
                                                   See  the  Supplement
lated invertebrate
GeofFroy's principal memoirs relating to this subject were collected into one
volume, and published in 1818 under the title of Philosophic Anatomique. Se
                                                                           it,
veral others however, more or less connected with are to be found in the Ann.

du Mut.
                 REPORT ON ZOOLOGY.                                                                         151

and that the former live within their vertebral column, in the

same manner as the latter do without. It is clear that, assum

ing the correctness of these views, it becomes necessary to make
some alteration in the leading divisions of Cuvier's system. The
following is the arrangement proposed by Geoffroy :

                   iIr vvertetaores.  \j'/ Hauts-Vertebres. ( Verttbrts, Cuv.)
          jAmmaux                           Dermo-Vertebres. (ArticuUs, Cuv.)
                                         I  Mollusques. (Mollmque,, Cuv.)
                               1            Rayonnes. {Rayonnes, Cuv.)

    Thus we have a primary division into vertebrate and inverte
brate animals, before arriving at Cuvier's four types, taking

however the term vertebrate in a much more extended sense

than did Lamarck, or any other previous author, and likewise
that of invertebrate in a more restricted one. Geoffrey's Ime
moirs on this subject were published, as already stated, in d 830,

in the Journal Complementaire* , &c. He subsequently fol
lowed up the same views in some other publications, more
especially in a paper in the Mem. du Mns. for 1822f, in which
he entered into a strict analysis of the structure of the vertebra,
first as it occurs in the higher animals, and afterwards as it ap

Ipears, though modified, in the segments of the Annulosa\. His

theory, believe, has been adopted by many of the French and
German    naturalists,                well                                            in other
Amongst    the former,  as             may      as by some                            mention        countries.
                                                 particularly                                        Robineau-
                          I
Desvoidy, who in 1828 published a work§ in order to substan
tiate, by still further illustration, the vertebral structure of the
Crustacea, Arachnida, and Insecta. Towards the conclusion, he
          pointed out the necessity (as it appears to him) of                                        institut
has
ing       several new classes amongst the annulose animals.                                           It may
be much doubted, however, whether these new classes will ever

be adopted generally, whatever may be the fate of those theore
tical views which have alone suggested them
                 I' 1

                                    I

                                                                     p.
                                                                         ||.

                                                                                                     is
                                                                                                         a
  * " Memoircs sur Organisation deg Insectes," Journ. Complem. du Diet,|| § J t
des Sci. Med., torn. v. p. 340; and torn. vi. pp. 31 and 138.

       torn. ix.
      See also his Court de I'Hisl. Nat. det Mammifires, Lee. 3», published in

1829.
      Recherche* tur Organisation vertebrate del Crustaces, des Arachnides, et
det Intectes. Paris, 1828, 8vo.

          As connected with the subject of the differences and resemblances between
                 invertebrate                                                                                                of
vertebrate and   will be found        animals,  may refer to                          etnwtiotledrec"enRtechmeermchoeisrs,  sur
which abstracts                       in L'Inslitut. The first,
les Parties dures des Animaux Invertebres, par M. Dupny," was read to the Aca
demDyutartocThoeutl,ou"seS, uJranl'O. p1p8o3s3i.tio{nL'Iqnusiliteuxtis, te18e3n3tr,e  3.) The other         memoir

by                                                                                    les Animaux Vertebreset les

Animaux Invertebres," read to the Academy of Sciences at Paris in March
last. (See L'Instit. 1834, p. 90.)
 152 FOURTH REPORT -- 1834.

    A slight modification of Geoffrey's views has been adopted by
 M. Dumortier, and recently published in a memoir on the com
 parative structure of plants and animals, in the 16th vol. of
 the Nov. Act. Sfc. Nat. Cur.*. Like Geoffroy, he considers

 the hard parts of Crustacea and Insects as strictly analogous to
 the osseous system of the Vertebrata ; but instead of the two pri

 mary groups into which he distributes animals, M. Dumortier
 would adopt the three divisions of Endosceleta, Exosceleta, and

 Asceleta, the second answering to Geoffrey's Dermo- Vertebres,
 and the third to his InvertSbre's. These are given in a tabular
 form, with the secondary groups into which he thinks the animal
 kingdom should be divided, amounting to twelve in number, also

 annexed. In a former part of his paper, M. Dumortier has

 entered into considerable details on the subject of the analogies
 which may be observed between the above three primary groups
 of animals, and the corresponding primary groups in the vege

 table kingdom. It would, however, occupy too much room to

 enter into any more extended analysis of his views.
     In 1821, Mr. MacLeay published the second part of his fiorce

 Entomologicce, in which he proposed a new arrangement of the
 leading groups of the animal kingdom, and considered them as

 referrible to Jive primary types, instead of four, the number
 adopted by Cuvier. The new type, which he has called Acrita,
 he intended should include the least organized of the Entozoa
 of Rudolphi, as well as Cuvier's classes of Polypi and Infusoria,

 all which he considered as not sufficiently showing the true ra
 diated structure characteristic of the type to which Cuvier referred
 them. Mr. MacLeay observed, that the necessity for this step had
 been previously pointed out, though indirectly, by Lamarck and
 Blainville. The establishing of this new group was not, however,

 the mostimportuntfevLture in the Horce Entomologicce. Mr. Mac

 Leay announced some new principles connected with the clas
 sification of animals, which, from the circumstance of their having
 led to a peculiar school of zoologists in England, it will be ne
 cessary to consider a little more in detail. The most important

 of these principlesf are : 1st, That all natural groups, of what
 ever denomination, return into themselves, forming circles ;
Sndly, That each of these circular groups isresolvahle intoexactly
five others ; 3rdly, That these five groups always admit of a
binary arrangement, two of them being what he calls typical,
the other three aberrant ; 4thly, That while proximate groups

     · p. 306.

   t It may be observed, that Mr. MacLeay has nowhere formally stated these

principles as above. They are only gathered from what he has written on the
subject.
                      REPORT ON ZOOLOGY.                               1,53

in any circle are connected by relations of affinity, corre
sponding groups in two contiguous circles are connected by
relations of analogy. Mr. MacLeay has also observed*, that,
in almost every group, one         of the five   minor    groups,      into
which it is resolvable, bears                             the rest  ;   or,
                                  a resemblance   to all

more strictly speaking, consists of types which represent those
of each of the four other groups, together with a type peculiar
Matobroi.vtseMelamf.ceLnetTaiohyne,esde.twporiInytceiawprlsaessbtehhfeoanrde, ,behineonwtehpveaerrt,fliyrwstbitrhopuaegrxthctlouffsoivrtehwearrwedfoebrrky
ence to the natural arrangement of the Lamellicorn Insects, in
which group we are told it was that he was first led to detect
them. It was not till 1821 that he applied them more generally,
in showing that a tendency to circles prevailed throughout na
ture, and that the same principles which he had observed to re
gulate the natural arrangement of the above
regulate that of the entire animal kingdom.      group, appeared to

                                                 It is somewhat re
markable, and certainly tending to confirm Mr. MacLeay's views,
that in the same year, and apparently without any knowledge
of the first part of the Horee Entomologicee, M. Fries, in Ger
many, published his Systema Mycologicum, in which he an
nounced principles somewhat similar to those above stated, as
regulating the natural distribution of Fungi. This gave rise to
a paper from Mr. MacLeay, read the following year to the Lin-
iiii-an Society-}-, in which he commented on this identity (so far
as the identity prevailed,) of the principles which they had
respectively adopted. He also pointed out wherein they dif
fered; one difference consisting in the determinate number, which
M. Fries considered as four, being the same as that formerly ad
vanced by Oken. Mr. MacLeay's arrangement of the Lamel
licorn Insects in the first part of the Hwae Entomological was
the result of rigid analysis, and is therefore deserving of the
greatest attention ; that however of the entire animal kingdom
in the second, was chiefly deduced from synthetical investigation,
and was moreover confined to the larger and more important

groups. It is not, therefore, surprising that many endeavours
should be made subsequently by himself, as well as by those
who had adopted more or less of his theory, to illustrate
his new principles by a more close application of them to
different departments of zoology. The first result was a paper
by Mr. Kirby, in 1822J, in which he described some insects that
appeared to exemplify Mr. MacLeay's doctrine of affinity and
                                  f Linn. Trans., vol. xiv. p. 40.
· Hor. EiU., p. 518.
I Linn. Trans., vol. xiv. p. 93.
154 FOURTH REPORT -- 1834.

analogy. In 1823*, Mr. Vigors made an application of Mr. Mac-
Leay's principles to the class of Birds, pointed out the orders

and families, and endeavoured to show that the natural affinities

which connect the several groups in that class obeyed the same
laws as those laid down in the Horee Entomologicce. The same
author subsequently followed up this inquiry in some particular

families of the same classf. In 1824J, Mr. MacLeay applied his
own principles to the arrangement of the Mollusca Tunicata.
In the same year Mr. Swainson endeavoured§, with reference

to the circular and quinary system, to work out the natural
affinities of the family of Laniidue in ornithology. In 1825,
appeared the first number of the Annulosa Javanica, in which

Mr. MacLeay again brought his views to the test by applying
them to the natural arrangement of the insects collected in Java
by Dr. Horsfield. Circumstances prevented Mr. MacLeay from

proceeding with this arrangement beyond that of a small portion
of the Coleoptera ; but Dr. Horsfield himself subsequently pro
ceeded to publish the Lepidoptera || classed according to the
same principles. In the same year, (1825,) Mr. Gray published an
attempt at the natural distribution of the Mammalia into tribes
and families^, and likewise of the genera of the classes Reptilia
and Amphibia** . Both these, but the former more especially,

were intended to illustrate Mr. MacLeay's principles. In 1826ff,
Mr. MacLeay gave the result of some anatomical investigations,
which tended to confirm the accuracy of Mr.Vigors's arrange
ment of Birds. In the same paper he considered the affinities
which connect the various orders of Mammalia, the point of

transition from this class to Aves, and the true analogies
existing between the respective orders of the two classes.

In 1827 \X, Mr. Swainson gave a sketch of the natural affi

nities of the Lepidoptera diurna of Latreille, being also an
application of Mr. MacLeay's principles. Lastly, in 1831, ap
peared the second part of the Fauna Boreali- Americana, in
which Mr. Swainson, still adopting Mr. MacLeay's views in
part, but modifying them according to what (since his former

t* Linn. Trans., vol. xiv. p. 395.
    Zool. Journ., vol. i. p. 312. and vol. ii. p. 368.
% Linn. Trans., vol. xiv. p. 527.      § Zool. Journ., vol. i. p. 289.
|| Descriptive Catalogue of the Lepidopterous Insects contained in the Mu
seum of the Hon. E. India Company, 8fc, with introductory Observations on a
tgeneral Arrangement of this Order     o*f Insects.   4to, 1 828, &c.
       Ann. Phil., vol. xxvi. p. 337.                ·· Id., vol. xxvi.  p.  193.
  Tt Linn. Trans., vol. xvi. p. 1.
XX- Ann. Phil., vol. i. p. 180.
               BKPORT ON ZOOLOGY.                                  155

papers) he has conceived to make a nearer approach to the true
natural system, endeavoured to work out an amended arrange
ment of some of the principal groups of birds. The modifica
tions which Mr. Swainson has been led to make in this work of

Mr. MacLeay's principles are these. He conceives, that although
every natural group is resolvable into five others, the primary
division is into three, each of which forms its own circle : he
thus rejects Mr. MacLeay's binary distribution of his five groups
into typical and aberrant, which last not forming circles, would
seem to be rather at variance with his own principles. He has
                                the law by          it appears to  him
also stated    more precisely    governed.  which                  The
the relations   of analogy are                      thus given :
                                             It is
contents of every circle or group are symbolically represented
by the contents ofd\\ other circles in the same class of animals ;

this resemblance being strong or remote, in proportion to the
proximity or the distance of the groups compared*. This prin
ciple, which Mr. Swainson terms the theory of representation,

he considers as affording the only certain test of a natural group.

Mr. MacLeay had considered such a test to be afforded by a
group returning into itself, which Mr. Swainson thinks not
sufficient, on the ground that there is not one group in three
which can be so tested ; this arising partly from our superficial
acquaintance with forms, and partly, as he believes, from there

being many real gaps in the chain of continuity. It will be
observed that Mr. Swainson has been the first to bring forward
any new laws of arrangement at all analogous to those originally

developed in the Hora Entomologicce ; and it is right to state,
that the above are not mere hypothetical deductions, but have
resulted from eight years' close analysis of the order Insessores
in the class of birds, with reference to which order principally

it is that he has illustrated them in the Fauna Boreali-Ame

ricaItnais. evident that the necessary limits of this Report forbid any
further analysis of Mr. MacLeay's  theory, or of                 Iwsohraklsl
                                   To some of       the several
and memoirs above referred to.                      these last

have further occasion to allude afterwards. What has been ad
vanced may tend, however, to point out the influence which this

theory has had over our own naturalists ; and if they have not
been all equally successful in their endeavours to apply it to

   · M. Isidore Geoffroy St. Hilaire, in France, has also attended to the subject
of analogies in zoology, and endeavoured to refer them to some general law. The
reader is referred to a note attached to a memoir published by him in the Nouv.
Ann. du Mus., torn. i. p. 380, in which he has given a slight sketch of his views
on this point. He proposes to make it the subject of a distinct paper at some
future opportunity.
156 FOURTH REPOIIT -- 1834.

different branches of zoology, these attempts have on the whole
certainly advanced our knowledge of natural groups, and deve
loped many affinities before unsuspected. At the same time it
is difficult to believe that there is not some truth at the bottom
of this theory, however erroneous it may be in its details ; and
that some of its details are erroneous, as well as many of the
subordinate arrangements in the system which has been built
               almost certain, from many facts which have been
upon     it,
              ; is
                                                           it
                                                                              it
                                                                                          is
brought forwards of late years, as well as from that difference
of opinion* which exists with respect to these details amongst
those who admit the fundamental principles. Neither are these
fundamental principles entirely new. Mr. MacLeay has himself
                                      have all been in some                                 measure ad
shownf         that his doctrines     the publication of the
vanced         by authors prior to                                                          Horce Ento

mologicce which circumstance, while tends to strengthen our
conviction that they have more or less of truth in them, does not
detract from Mr. MacLeay's merits in having developed them
far beyond what any of his predecessors had done. To him we
are certainly indebted for having pointed out the exact nature of

the difference between affinity and analogy in natural history,
however these two kinds of relation may have been observed by
former authors^. He was also the first to establish by proof
circular affinities. He has sufficiently demonstrated their exist
ence in certain groups, to lead us to suspect that                                            only our
as yet imperfect knowledge of forms, and the gaps necessarily
arising from the circumstance of many forms having become
extinct, which prevents us from tracing their existence gene

rally. And these are by far the most important of Mr. MacLeay's
principles. Whatever of error there may be in the rest of his
views, whatever modifications already have been, or may yet
further be made in them, by the help of the above principles he
appears to have approached nearer than any before him to the

   · This difference of opinion more especially respects the determinate num
ber. While Mr. MacLeay considers as five, and Mr. Swainson as three, Mr.
Kirby        of opinion    that will turn out itto be seven. (Introd. to Ent.,vo\.
It must       be stated    itthat this gentleman  has hitherto brought nothing                  iii.p. 15.)
             of this last     a                        a"                                     forward in
support                    number. It has,                                ahowever, found an advocate inMr. New
JI f
man, who has also endeavoured to establish some other modifications of Mr.is
MacLeay's theory. See small tract, called Sphinx Vespiformis, published in
1832.
       Linn. Trans., vol. xvi. p. 8.
          add this because, some time back,                                                 between M.
                                                there was                    controversy
Virey and Mr. MacLeay on the question           of priority                with respect     to the above
distinction. See review, by the former, of some                            of Mr. MacLeay's opinions in
Bull, dtt Sci. 1825. torn. iv. p. 275, in which M.a                        Virey states having made this
                                                                           Nat., Art. Animal. Mr. Mac
distinction long before in the Nouv. Did. Hist.
Leay has replied to M. Virey in Zool. Journ., vol. iv. p. 47.
                           REPORT ON ZOOLOGY.                                                                                                  157

true      natural        styoste"mre, coanncdile(asfahcatss  already been twice observed*)
been      enabled                                            which upon no other plan can

be reconciled."

  It is necessary now to revert in point of time, for the purpose
of noticing some works which appeared on the Continent during

the above period. In 1821, Oken published his Esquisse de
Systeme <F Anatomie, tie Physiologic, et d'Histoire Naturelle.
This celebrated German naturalist is well known to have im
bibed some very original views connected with the classification
of animals, which have led to a peculiar school of zoology in
Germany, in              like manner      those of MacLeay have
                                      as  say much of his system,                                                                   in England.
I regret that            I am unable  to
                                                                                                                                    which how
Iever believe to be only a modification of one which he had
before published in some of his earlier works f. It is based
upon a theory which supposes the animal kingdom to be deve
loped after the same order as that in which the organs are in
the body. He considers that these organs form, characterize,
and represent the classes ; and that there are the same number
of classes as there are organs. He also attaches to them names
derived from the organs. Fanciful as this theory appears, it
has not only had many followers in Germany, but has given rise
utoposnevaenraalloagtotuems pptsrinactipalensa.turSaul cchlaisssitfhiceati"onSynoof patnicimTaalsblefouonfdtehde

Animal Kingdom,' ' published at Dresden, in 1826, by Ficinus and
CarusJ, in which the leading divisions are based upon views
            saitmHileairdetolbuthrogs,e"oAf nOkAettne.mpItnto1w8a2r7d,s                                                             Leuckhart
somewhat                                                                                                                            a Natural    also
published,                                                                                                                                     Clas

sification of Intestinal Worms, followed by a Table of the
IAffinities of Animals in general," constructed upon the same
lparrilnyc,ipbleust §I.       am unable to notice these works more particu
                         conceive that it would be unnecessary, were it in

my power to do so.

   In 1822, Blainville published his Principes d'Anatomie Corn-
paree, annexed to which are some Synoptic Tables of the Ani
mal Kingdom, containing a slight modification of a new system

first brought forward in 1816 in the Journal de P!iysique\\.
In this system, the primary divisions, which are called sub-
kingdoms, and are three in number, are established on characters

· Kirby, Introd. to Entom., vol. iv. p. 359 ; and Swains. Fn. Bor. Am., part 2.
p. xlvi.
atitvttaolPunhaibNlolaestouGpreharylmaHonfisNtpoaertyrui,ored(,iicna(iln,GecGramelleramdna,)hni,Js)e,nJceaon, nat1,a8i1n168in.0g9,
            He was the first in Germany to                                                                                           3 vols. 8vo. Also, Trea-
            des Sci. 1829, torn. xvii. p. 258.                                                                                      Oken is also the editor of

                                                                                                                                    many important papers in
zoology.                                                              the Linmenti system.
   X Bull,                                                   abandon    § Id., 1829, torn. xvii.

|| torn, lxxxiii. p. 244.
158 FOURTH REPORT -- 1834.

taken from the general form, which Blainville finds in accord
ance with those derived from the nervous system when this is
present. The first of these subkingdoms he terms Artiomorphes
or Artiozoaires, being that in which the form is symmetri
cal, or the parts disposed symmetrically on each side of the
body ; the second, Actinomorphes or Actinozoaires, in which
the parts radiate from a common centre ; the third, Hkti.ro-
morphes or Heterozoaires, in which the form is indeterminate.
The Artiomorphes are referred to three secondary types, cha
racterized from the arrangement of the locomotive organs :
(1.) Osteozoaires, in which the body and limbs are composed of
several pieces articulated together, the articulations not being
visible from without ; (2.) Entomozoaires, in which the body
and limbs are likewise articulated, the articulations being exter
nally visible ; (3.) Malacozoaires, in which the body is of one
single piece, and not divided into several parts. The Osteo
zoaires are the same as the Vertebrata of Cuvier. The Ento
mozoaires answer nearly to his Annulosa, including, besides the
classes referred to that type in the Rigne Animal, the Entozoa,
and likewise the Cirripeda and the genus Chiton. These two
last groups, however, form a subtype, which Blainville calls
Malentozoaires or MolluscarticuUs. The Malacozoaires cor
respond to the Mollusca of Cuvier, excluding the Cirripeda
and the genus Chiton just mentioned. The second subking-
dom, Actinomorphes, comprises the Radiata of Cuvier, with the
exception of the Sponges, Infusoria, and Stony Corallines,
which compose the third subkingdom, or Hetkromorphes.
Blainville's system, though different from Cuvier's, deserves to
be studied, from its indicating many new affinities which had
not been before noticed. Its author however has adopted, and
in many instances very unnecessarily, an entirely new nomen
clature, which alone has been sufficient to prevent it from having
been generally received by naturalists.

   In 1825, Latreille published his Families Naturelles du
Regne Animal, in which he considers the animal kingdom as
primarily divided into three great series : Vertebrata, the essen
tial character of which group he does not derive however from
the vertebral column, so much as from the presence of a brain,
consisting always of a cerebrum and cerebellum, and the great
sympathetic nerve, whereby it is particularly distinguished from
his second group, Cephalidia, in which the brain is only rudi
mentary, and the third, Acephala, in which it no longer exists.
His Cephalidia embrace the Annulosa and Mollusca of Cuvier,
with the exception of the Aciphales sans coquilles. These, with
the Zoophytes of the same author, constitute his Acephala.
   REPORT ON ZOOLOGY.                                                                                  159

Before arriving at the classes of the Vertebrata, Latreille adopts
a previous division of this series into Hcematherma (with warm
blood,) and Haemacryma (with cold blood). This last is again
divided into Pulmonea and Solibranchia, according as the re
spiration is carried on by lungs or gills. In like manner we
find his second series, Cephalidia, divided into the three races
of Mollusca, Elminthoida (comprising the classes Cirripedes
and Annelides), and Condylopa (with articulated feet). The
Acephala also into Gastrica and Agastrica. Few will probably
prefer Latreille's three primary divisions to Cuvier's four types,
or judge his arrangement on the whole to be more natural than
that of the Rigne Animal. His Cephalidia, in particular, bring
together under one head two very distinct groups which are well
separated by Cuvier.

   The above are some of the principal systems, or modifications
of that of Cuvier, which have been brought forwards since the

first edition of the Regne Animal * . In 1829 appeared the

second edition of the work just mentioned, in which however
there is no material alteration, at least as far as regards the dis
tribution of the leading groups.

   It may be thought by some that the subject is hardly deserving

so much notice ; that the consideration of different systems,
some of which perhaps we feel sure are grounded upon errone
ous principles, may be passed over as of not much importance
to zoology. Cuvier will teach us to judge otherwise. He ob-
servesf that the affinities of animals are so complicated, that
we ought thankfully to receive every endeavour to set them be
fore us in a new point of view. There are few systems which do
not contribute something to our knowledge on this subject, and
which do not thereby enable us to make some further advance
towards that which is the end and object of the science, the
natural system itself %.

      III. Of the several Classes in the Animal Kingdom.

   In entering on the consideration of the several classes of ani

· I have been obliged to omit the notice of certain works which may per
Ihaps contain some new views respecting the arrangement of animals, but which

  have been unable to get sight of. Such are the Elements of Zoology, (in Ita
lian,) by Ranzani, published at Bologna in 1819, &c. ; and the Manual of Zo
ology, (in German,) by Goldfuss, published at Nuremberg in 1820. In 1828,
Van der Hoeven also published a Tabular View of the Animal Kingdom, equally
funknown to me except by title.
   MHirs.t.MdacuLPeroagyrehsasdewseSllcio. bNseartv.,edtotrhn.ativ".  p. 182.          of an affinity                                in
                                                                      every discovery
X  a
                                                                                                                                is,
part, discovery of natural arrangement." (Hor. Ent., p. 324.)
160 FOURTH REPORT 1834.

Imals, may observe, that it is not my intention to do more than to
convey a general notion respecting the state of our knowledge
of  the principal groups contained in them.   At the
    shall notice any recent researches which          same time
I                                             appear   to throw

light on  othreiinrtearffninailtiecsh,araocrtetors.illusOtrfatethemseorelasctleIarcloynfeinitehermtyhseeilrf
external

to such as are of immediate importance to zoology.

                           I. Vertbbrata, Cuv.

   1. Mammalia. --Cuvier and Geoffroy greatly contributed to

our knowledge of this class during the early part of the present
century. The former by his investigation of fossil species sup
plied us with many new forms, serving in several cases as links
to connect groups which before were widely separated. He
also found it necessary, in order to determine the above with
accuracy, first to examine more closely the structure of such
species as are living at the present day. Owing to this circum
stance his Ossemens Fossiles has conferred a lasting benefit on
this department of zoology. His researches served to elucidate
the history of numberless genera, and even led to the establish
ment of one entire family*, of which the true affinities had pre
viously been quite misunderstood. Geoffroy also laboured much,
and indeed has continued to do so to the present time, at the
natural arrangement of these animals. His various memoirs in
the Annates du Museum and other French periodicals, more
particularly those on the Marsupialia, Cheiroptera, and Quad-
rumana ; his splendid work also, the Histoire des Mammiferes,

undertaken conjointly with M. Fred. Cuvier, are well known, and
deservedly celebrated. Yet notwithstanding the laborious re

searches of these, and many other eminent zoologists, perhaps
it is not advancing too much to affirm, that we are still in many
cases far from understanding the real affinities of the Mammalia,
and less agreed about the primary groups into which they ought
to be distributed, than in the instance of some other classes lower
down in the systemf. This will appear by referring to the
principal classifications which have been published since that of
the Rigne Animal. Cuvier, in the work just mentioned, admits

the following eight orders : Bimana, Quadrnmana, Fera (Car-

nassiers), Rodentia, Edentata, Pachydermata, Ruminantia,

  f· The Herbivorous Cetacea.

       This probably arises in a great measure from the paucity of forms which
this class presents compared with others. Mr. MacLeay has observed, {Annul.
Javan., p. xi.) that we are more likely to detect the natural arrangement
amongst Insects, from the circumstance of their presenting such a multiplicity
of species, than in any other part of the system.
              REPORT ON ZOOLOGY.                       1G1

Cetacea. Desmarets, in his Mammalogie, published in 1820,
follows Cuvier. Blainville* distributes the Mammalia pri

marily into the two subclasses of Monodelphes and Didelphes,
this last being instituted for the reception of the Marsu
pialia, and Monotremata of Geoffroy. His subclass of Mono
delphes includes seven orders ; of these the first five are the
same as Cuvier's, only the Rodentia and Edentata are trans
posed, and the latter includes the Cetaceous animals, with the
exception of the Lamentines : these last, with the Proboscidiens
of Cuvier, form his sixth order, called Gravigrades : his se
venth order, Ongulogrades, comprises the rest of Cuvier's
Pachydermata and his Ruminantia. Latreillef considers the
Monotremata as a distinct class altogether. His class Mam
malia comprises Cuvier's eight orders, besides the three ad
ditional ones of Cheiroptera, Amphibia, and Marsupialia (in the
Regne Anim.   only subordinate groups in    the order Carnassiers%.)
Mr. MacLeay,    in a paper in the Linntean    Transactions^ already
alluded to in a former part of this Report, dated 182fi-/, adopts
as primary divisions the old groups Primates, Ferae, Glires,
Ungulata, and Cetacea, the first three, and last, being identical
with the four Linntean orders bearing the same names, the fourth
(adopted from Aristotle and Ray) including the Linntean orders

Srutee, Pecora, and Relluce. Mr. MacLeay has made some im
portant and interesting remarks on the series of affinities con
necting the above orders which deserve to be consulted, but which
would occupy too much room here. He attempts to show that
the chain returns into itself, forming a circle. He considers
the whole class as passing off to the Birds by the Glires\\, and
as also indicating an affinity to the Reptilia in the Monotre
mata. In 1827, Temminck published the first part of his valu
able Monographies de Mammalogie, at the end of which he
gives a systematic arrangement of the whole class. He adopts,
in addition to Cuvier's orders, those of Cheiroptera and Mono
tremata : the former is inserted between the Quadrumana and
Carnivora ; the latter is placed at the end of the whole series,
as serving to point out the transition to Reptiles and Birds.

t* Principes, S;c, tab. 3.                  Fam. Nat.
J Latreille thinks that at the end of the Quadrumana, the Mammalia divide
themselves into two series: one composed of the Cheiroptera, Marsupialia,
Rodentia, and Edentata; the other of the Fercr, Amphibia, Pachydermuta,
Ruminantia, and Cetacea. See Fam. Nat., p. 59, note (J).
   § vol. xvi. p. 1.
   II The analogy which exists between the organization of the Mammalia

Rodentia and that of Birds, was pointed out by Professor Otto of Breslau the
same year. See Bull desSci. 1827, torn. xii.

1834.         M
162 FOURTH REPORT -- 1834.

The same year Lesson published his Manuel de Mammalogie :
his arrangement, however, is the same as that of Cuvier. In
1829, appeared the 2nd edition of the Rkgne Animal, in which
the Marsupialia are considered as a distinct order ; in all other
respects the arrangement is the same as that of the first. The
same year Fischer published his Synopsis Mammalium. His
orders approach more in character to those of Linnseus : he
adopts, however, two more than that author : one, Cheiroptera,
placed between the Primates and Ferce; the other, which he
terms Sestiee, and which includes the Insectivora and Marsupi
alia of Cuvier, following the order last mentioned. Also in
                                           Dthieet,Mdaems mScai.liaNabty.  Fred.
1829, appeared  a valuable treatise    on                                    His
Cuvier, in the  59th volume of       the

arrangement differs in one respect from that of all his prede
cessors, in as much as he has thrown together in one order the
first two families of the Carnassiers of the Regne Anim. and the
Insectivorous Marsupialia, while of the Frugivorous Marsupi
alia he has made a separate order. He has also made distinct
orders of the Amphibia and Monotremata.
   In 1830, Wagler published his Natiirliches System der Am-
phibien, to which he has prefixed a classification of Mammalia
as well as of Aves. His orders in the former of these classes,

amounting to eighteen, are much more numerous than those of

Iany other author. It is hardly necessary to specify them, as few,

  conceive, will be disposed to adopt them all as primary divisions.
They more properly deserve the name of families. Wagler con
siders the Monotremata as a distinct class, to which he gives the

name of Gryphi. It may be observed, that he also includes in it
the fossil Ichthyosauri and Plesiosavri, as well as the Ornitho-
cephahis of Sbmmerring*.
   In 1831, Charles Lucien Bonaparte published an arrangement
of the Vertebrata\ differing in some respects from that of his pre
decessors. TheMammalia are primarily divided into the two sub
classes of Quadrupeda and Bipeda, the latter being intended to
receive the Cetaceous animals. The Quadrupeda are again divided
into the two sections of Unguiculata and Ungulata. His
orders resemble those of Fischer, excepting that he isolates the
Marsupialia, referring the Insectivora (with which they are
associated by this last author) to the order Ferce. He also

   * Mr. MacLeay has suggested in his Horte Entomological, p. 267, that possibly
the Ornithocephalus may have been the connecting link between Mammalia and
Birds.

  f Saggio di una Distribuzione melodica degli Animati Vertebrati. 8vo, Rom.

1831.
                       REPORT ON ZOOLOGY.                                                    1(53

 makes a distinct order of the Amphibia. The Monotremata

 he considers as a separate class*.

    On a review of the above systems it will appear how much
difference of opinion exists respecting the value of certain groups,
more particularly the Cheiroptera, Marsupialia, and Monotre
mata. To the number of those systematists who regard the
 Cheiroptera as a distinct order, we may add Geoffroy, whose
opinion will have weight, when we remember the particular
study which for many years he is known to have made of these
animals. We may refer to the twelfth and thirteenth Lectures
in his Cours de V Histoire Xuturelle des Mammiferes, as pre
senting considerable details respecting the general organization
of these animals and their several peculiarities. He regards
them as holding an intermediate place between the Quadrumana
and Feraz, but requiring to be separated from both.

   The Marsupialia will continue to perplex us until we can
determine the true value of that peculiar character by which
they are so remarkably distinguished from all other Mammalia.
Is it to controul the characters derived from the organs of mas
tication, digestion, and motion, which maybe referred almost to
as many types as there exist genera amongst these animals ?
Even adopting that it ought, as most naturalists seem disposed
to do, we have still to decide, whether the Marsupialia consti
tute merely a peculiar order, or a group of any higher denomi
nation as supposed by Blainville. Although Cuvier has only
admitted them to the former, he observes that they might almost
be supposed to form a distinct class parallel to that of the or
dinary Mammalia, and divisible into similar orders. The solu
tion of these difficulties must probably be sought in a more pro
found study of the relative internal organization of these and
other Mammalia. This subject has, indeed, for some time al
ready engaged the attention of GeofFroyt, and more recently it
has been taken up by Messrs. Morgan:): and Owen§. We may
reasonably hope that by the combined researches of these emi
nent anatomists, some new light will before long be thrown
upon the affinities of these singular animals.

  · Since this Report was read, I have seen a sketch of a new arrangement of
the Mammalia recently proposed by M. Duvernoy. Like Blainville, he con
siders the Marsupialia, (under which series he includes the Monotremata,) as
a group equivalent to the rest of the Mammalia tak^n together, for which last
he retains Blainville's name of Monodelpkes.                  His orders are very numerous.

tSee  L'Institut, No.  lxMva. rps.up26ia1.ux  in  the  Diet,  des  Sci. Nat.,  torn.  xxix.
       Seethe article
    i Linn. Trans., vol. xvi. pp. 61 and 455.
    § Proceedings of the Zool. Soc. 1831, p. 159; 1833, p. 128.
                                                  M2
164 FOURTH REPORT 1834.

   The Monotremata, which are involved in quite as much
obscurity as the Marsupialia, have been for some time, but
particularly within the last two years, a subject of great contro
versy amongst the first naturalists. Although belonging more
to the department of anatomy, it will be necessary to say some
thing of this discussion, from its great importance to the science
we are considering. The controversy has chiefly turned upon
the existence or not of true mammary glands in these animals,
and their consequent claims to be admitted among the Mam
malia.

    Lamarck was the first to maintain, in 1809*, arguing from the
supposed absence of these glands, and the consequent probability
that the Monotremataf were oviparous, that they ought to form
a separate class. This opinion was subsequently adopted by

Geoffroy in the Bulletin de la Soc. Phil. 1822 J ; and also by

Van der Hoeven in a memoir on the Ornithorhynchus, pub

lished in 1823 in the Nov. Act. %c. Nat. Cur.§. In 1824,
Meckel announced, in Froriep's Notizen, that he had dis

 covered these glands, and in 1826 he published his Anatomy
 of the Ornithorhynchus\\, in which their nature and situation
were more fully illustrated. In the course of the same year (1826)
 Geoffroy endeavoured to show^f, that the supposed mammary
 glands seen by Meckel were not truly lactiferous, but analogous
 to certain glands which he had observed in the genus Sorex**.

 In 1827ft Meckel replied to Geoffroy, adducing further argu

 ments in support of his former opinion. The same year Geoff
 roy published a memoir on the structure of the genital and
 urinary organs in the Ornithorhynchus\\, from an examination
 of which he was still led to infer that it was certainly oviparous.
 This belief was soon after much strengthened by the receipt of
 information from Dr. Grant of the supposed discovery of the
 eggs of the Omithorhynchus§§, which circumstance gave rise to

f· Phil. Zool., torn. i. pp. 145 and 342.

   The name of Monotremata dates from 1803, when Geoffroy, who first ap
plied it in consideration of the peculiar  structure    of the genital organs,          made
 simply a new order of these animals. See             la Soc. Phil., torn. iii. p.      225.
                                           Bull, de

X p. 95.                              § torn. xi. part ii. p. 351.
|| Ornithorhynchi Paradoxi Descriptio Anatomica. fol. Lipskv, 1826.
U Ann. des Sci. Nat., torn. ix. p. 457.
   ·· These latter glands form        subject of      mMeumseouirmp;ubtloishwehdichbyI  Geoffroy,
in 1815, in the first volume of  the  Memoires    a                                      refer the
                                 the              du

reader.
ft Archiv.fiir Anat., band x. p. 23.
                                           %l Mem. du Mm., torn. xv. p. 1.
§§ See an account of the discovery, accompanied by a description of these
eggs, in the Edinb. New Phil. Journ. for Jan. 1830, p. 149.
                         REPORT ON ZOOLOGY.                                                                 1G5

another memoir on the part of Geoffroy, published in the Ann.
des Sci. for 1829*. In 1832, the controversy respecting the
existence of the mammary glands again arose. In June of that
year, Mr. Owen read a paper to the Royal Societyf, in which
he entered into a close investigation of the structure of these
glands, and decided altogether in favour of Meckel's opinion
that they were strictly lactiferous. This opinion was further
confirmed by a statement made the following September by
Dr. Weatherhead to the Zoological Society^, respecting the
positive discovery of milk in the instance of a female Ornitho-
rhynchus lately taken with its young in the interior of New South
Wales. In October of the same year, Mr. Owen laid before
the Zoological Society § the results of an anatomical investigation
of the mammary glands of the Echidna Hystrix, in which ani
mal he was also led to believe that they were really lactiferous.
In February 1833, Geoffroy published a memoir in the Gazette
Me'dicale\\, in which he stated that the secretion of these sup
posed mammary glands was not really milk, but mucus, destined
for the nutriment of the newly hatched young. In the same
month, Blainville read a memoir^j to the Academy of Sciences at
Paris in support of Mr. Owen's opinion. In March, Geoffroy
made a communication to the Zoological Society** on the subject
of his last memoir, to which Mr. Owen replied, alleging argu
ments against the probability of the secretion being mucus as
Geoffroy supposed. In July the controversy between these two
individuals was resumed -f-f . Several other memoirsJ| have been

· torn, xviii. p. 157.                t Phil. Tram. 1832, p. 517.
X Proceedings of Zool. Soc., p. 145.
                                      § Proceedings ofZool. Soc, p. \7'J.
|| See Proceedings of Zool. Soc. 1833, p. 28.
^ Nouv. Ann. du Mus., torn. ii. p. 369. In this memoir, although Blainville
considers the Monolremata as mammiferous, he retains his former opinion with
respect to the propriety of instituting a subclass for them, as forming the trans
ition from viviparous to oviparous animals. In the same subclass he suspects
the fossil Ichthyosaurus would claim a place. This, it will be observed, accords
with the views of Wagler already alluded to.
JJ·· Proceed., p. 28.                 ft Proceed,
                                                     of Zool.  Soc.,  p.   91.                              45,
    For abstracts of these memoirs  see L'Institut,  Nos. 4,   7, 9,  32,  33,40,

and 46. From some of the later ones it will be seen that this controversy has

not been confined to the subject of the Monolremata. Geoffroy endeavoured
to make it appear probable that the mammary glands of the Cetacea were of a
similar nature with the  ifMtohnisotwreerme aptricovegdlantdosb(easthehecatseer,mtshethCeemta)ceain          Orni-
thorhynchiu ; and that                                                                                 the  should
                                                                                                     also

be made to constitute a distinct class. Several facts and statements1, however,

have been brought forward to demonstrate that these glands are certainly lac
tiferous in the Cetacea, and I believe Geoffroy himself has since changed his
opinion on this head.

   1 See an article by Dr. Traill in the Edinb. New Phil. Journ. for July of the
present year (1834), p. 177.
166 FOURTH REPORT 1834.

also read by Geoffroy to the Academy of Sciences at Paris, both
during the last and the present year, connected with this question.
Nothing, however, has as yet been brought forward serving to

prove the incorrectness of Mr. Owen's views, which certainly

on the whole appear far more probable than those of Geoffroy.

We may add in conclusion, that Mr. Owen has recently dissected

a young Ornithorhynchus, the stomach of which was found filled
with coagulated milk*, which milk examined under a high mag
nifying power, and compared with that of the cow, was found
strictly analogous to this last in respect to its ultimate globules.

This seems almost decisive of the matter. At the same time

the mode of generation in these animals, whether oviparous, or
ovoviviparous as appears more likely, remains yet to be ascer
tained.

   No one has paid so much attention to those organs in the
Mammalia employed by zoologists in characterizing genera and
species as M. Fred. Cuvier. The teeth have been particularly
studied by him with reference to this point. His memoirs on
this subject in the Ann. and Mem. du Mus.f formed the basis
of a complete workj, published in 1825, in which he has given
an accurate description of the dental system in each of the prin
cipal genera throughout the Mammalia, illustrated by figures.
He has observed a remarkable uniformity of character in the
molares, in all those genera which are manifestly natural, and
generally admitted to be such by naturalists §. With reference
also to their zoological characters, he has more recently made a
study of the various productions of the cuticle. As yet he has
only treated of the structure of the spines of the Porcupine||,
which he selected in the first instance as most readily examined,
and likely to throw much light on the structure and development
of hair in general. His researches, as far as they have been
hitherto conducted, lead him to regard the hair as furnishing
the zoologist with characters of more importance than has been
usually supposed. He proposes, however, to follow up this sub
ject on another occasion. In a memoir published in the same
volume with the one just alluded to, F. Cuvier has pointed out

   · Proceed. &c. 1834, p. 43.                                          8vo,Par.

  t toms. x. xii. and xix. of the former, and torn. ix. of the latter.
  J Dents des Mammifires considirees comme Caractires Zoologiques.

1825.

§ On the subject of the teeth of the Mammalia, their structure and zoological
characters, see a memoir recently published by GeofTroy.     (Mem. de I'lnstitul,
torn. xii. p. 181.) His chief object is to prove that the  long anterior teeth of

the Rndentia, usually considered as incisors, strictly represent the canine teeth.
|| Nouv. Ann. du Mm., torn. i. p. 409.
         REPORT ON ZOOLOGY.                                                      167

some valuable characters for distinguishing the species of Ves
per tilionidcE. These are derived from the form of the head,
which he refers to three distinct types ; the form and direction
of the auricle, which he refers to seven types ; and the form of
the tragus. He observes that in the restricted genus Vesper-
tilio, the organs of mastication and motion present but little
variation.
   2. Aves. --The structure of birds in general is perhaps quite
as well  understood as that of Mammalia,
are on                                       and the leading                      groups
         the whole better determined. It is  also curious to                     observe

that the orders most generally adopted at the present day nearly
coincide with those of Linnaeus, thus evincing the tact with
which that great naturalist in some instances seized affinities.
TinhetheonulnyioanlteorfattihoenstwwohLicinhnaweeanfinodrdeinrsthPeicRae;ganned  Anim. consist

                                                                                 Passeres, (be
tween which it is certainly not easy to define,) and the separa
tion of the Scansorial birds from the former to constitute a

distinct order by themselves. It will be well, however, to notice
the principal arrangements of this class which have appeared
since Cuvier's, in some of which we shall find a desire to deviate
more widely from the system of Linnaeus. This will also afford
an opportunity of pointing out those individuals who have most
contributed to the recent progress of this department of zoology.
The first is that of Vieillot, which  appeared in 1818 in the 2nd
edition of the Nauv. Diet, a" Hist.
                                      Nat. (Art. Ornithologib).
Its author was previously well known for his many valuable
works on ornithology, in one of which* he had already given
a slight sketch of his arrangement. Vieillot's orders are five in
number, and similar to those of Linnaeus, excepting that with
Cuvier he throws together the Piece and Passeres to form one,
which he calls Sylvicolce. For the terms Grallae and Anseres,
he also substitutes Illiger's names of Grallatores and Natatores.
In 1820, Temminck published the 2nd edition of his Manuel
d' Omithologie, to which is prefixed a sketch of a general ar
rangement of birds, professedly grounded on the habits and
organization. Perhaps, however, this is the least valuable part
of a work, exceedingly rich in practical information relating to
this class, and indispensable to ornithologists on all other con
siderations. Temminck's system, which is a slight modifica
tion of that given in the first edition of his Manual, cannot be
considered as natural. His orders, amounting to sixteen, are
greatly overmultiplied, and are far from being groups of equal
value. In fact, he has not distinguished between orders and

* Analyse d'une nouvelle Ornilhulogie etemenlairc. 8vo, Par. 1816.
168 FOURTH REPORT -- 1834.

families. Blainville's arrangement of this class* is grounded
upon the form of the sternum and its appendages {clavicle and
osfurcatorius), according to a plan first developed in a memoir
read to the Institute in 1812. At the same time, for the sake of
convenience, its author has had recourse to the usual external
characters for distinguishing the groups. As the sternum gives
attachment to the principal muscles of flight, and thereby ne
cessarily exercises a certain influence over the ceconomy, it may
assist in determining many natural affinities which would other
wise escape us. Hence Blainville's system deserves to be re
garded, although we may not be disposed to adopt it entirely.
One of its chief peculiarities consists in the forming a distinct
order of the Parrots, which stand first in the arrangement.
Blainville thinks that not only the form of the sternum, but the
whole organization and habits of these birds justify this step.
With the rest of the Scansores, which are separated from the
above by the intervention of the Birds of Prey, he associates the
Syndactyli and Caprimulgidce, groups not referred by Cuvier
to this order. He has also made distinct orders of the Pigeons
and Ostriches. His other orders nearly coincide with those of
              Anim . Although not immediately following                   in point
the   liegne  may here notice an elaborate memoir on the                  sternum
of
of   time, I
la         LbiynMn,.Ld'eHePramriisnfi,eri,n  published, in                Ann. de
    birds                                    which he has   1827, in the  to draw
    Soc.                                                    endeavoured

the attention of naturalists afresh to the great importance of this
part. He has studied its structure in a large number of species,
and founded upon it a new classification entirely different from
all former ones excepting that of Blainville. He divides birds
into two subclasses : the first comprises all those in which the
sternum is constantly furnished with a keel, and is distributed
into thirty-three families ; the second forms but a single family,
containing the Ostrich, Cassuary, and a few others, in which the
keel is always wanting. M. L'Herminier thinks that the birds
just mentioned conduct to the Reptiles, and not to the Mam
malia as is generally supposed. In 1823 appeared Mr. Vigors's
"Observations on the natural Affinities connecting the Orders

and Families of BirdsJ," to which allusion has been already made,
as containing an application of Mr. MacLeay's principles. His
primary divisions are the same as Cuvier's, excepting that he
sinks the order Scansores, which he considers as only a subor
dinate group of his order Insessores, which name he has sub
stituted for that of Passeres. The names adopted for his other

· Principes, &c, tab. 4.                                    f tom. v. p. 3--03.

J Linn. Trans., vol. xiv. p. 395.
                   REPORT ON ZOOLOGY.                                 169

four orders are taken from Illiger*, viz. Raptores (Raptatores,
111.), Rasores, Grallatores, and Natatoresf. Mr. Vigors has
traced out the chain of affinities which connects the above
groups, and endeavoured to show that it returns into itself,
forming a circle. Latreille in his arrangement| follows Cuvier,
with some slight modifications. Thus, he has a primary divi
sion of the whole class into the two sections of Terrestres

and Aquatici : he has also made a distinct order of the Co-
lumbce and Alectrides, Vieill., to which he gives the name
of Passerigalli. Wagler's orders § are more numerous than
even those of Temminck, and deserve to be considered in many
cases rather as natural families. He has annexed a synop
sis of the genera of birds, arranged in the order of their affi-
nities||. In 1831, M. Lesson published his Traits d' Ornitko-
logie, containing the result of a careful examination of the col
lections at Paris, to which in some measure it serves as an
accompanying catalogue. In this arrangement, which professes
to be according to the natural system, we have a primary division
of birds into Anomalous and Normal, these groups being ana
logous to M. L'Herminier's subclasses, and characterized in like
manner from the sternum and its appendages. The former com
prises the five genera of Struthio, Rhea, Casuarins, Dromahis
 and Apteryx*^. The latter is divided into orders, on the whole
 similar to Cuvier's, the Scansores, however, forming only a sub
 order among the Passeres. The Columbce and genus Penelope,
 Merr., which Cuvier associates with his Gallinace's, are also
 referred to the Passeres, where they form a portion of another
suborder, called from Latreille Passerigalli. In the same year
(1831), Mr. Swainson published the second volume of the Faun.
Bor. Amer., in which he has stated his views with respect to the
natural arrangement of birds, although he has only illustrated
them at length with reference to one order. Mr. Swainson's

principles, which have been before alluded to, lead him to re

   · C. IUigeri Prodromus Systemaiis Mammalium et Avium. Berol. 1811.

A work extremely useful even at the present day, on account of its containing
a very complete terminology with reference to the above two classes.
t Mr. Vigors places the Struthionidce among the Rasores. By Cuvier they
are associated with the wading birds.
                                                              § Naturliches System, SfC.
  I Fam. Nat.                                            in 1827, a portion of a work entitled
    || Wagler had  pItrevwioasuslnyotpusbolismhuecdh, ,  however, a systematic arrangement of
Systema Avium.
birds, as a collection of treatises on different genera, those being selected in the

first instance which he had studied most thoroughly. It was his intention to have
arranged them afterwards in a systematic table. The work, however, was never

completed, and its talented author has recently met with a premature death.
1j See a paper by Mr. Yarrell on this anomalous genus in Zool. Trans., vol. i.
p. 71.
170 FOURTH REPORT 1834.

 cognise three primary groups into which the class Aves is divisi
 ble. To these he does not affix names, but merely designates
them as the typical, the subtypical, and the aberrant. His
 secondary divisions, at least those adopted in the above work,
which are equivalent to the orders of other authors, are the

same as those of Mr. Vigors. In the details of the arrangement

TitshhetehaslyatstoetefsmtCsa. rLroa.fnBgtohenemaseepnattrwteoo, faitnuhthhisiosrcsSlaasagsrgewioinithdmi wuannhyaicDhriesIstpraiebmcutszaicodqniufefae,irnet&netdc..

He divides it into the two subclasses of Insessores and Gralla-

tores : the former containing the orders Accipitres and Passeres,
Cuv. ; the latter those of Gallince, Grallce, and Anseres.

    The above are the principal authors who have treated of the
systematic arrangement of this class of late years. The general
leaning seems to be towards the adoption of the same orders as
those just mentioned*. The group which presents most diffi
culties in the way of a natural classification is undoubtedly that
of Scansores, on the value of which naturalists are not agreed.
Latreille considers it as forming a parallel order to that of the

Passeres. It will probably, however, be allowed ultimately to be

only a subordinate group in this last order, as is already the

opinion of Vigors, Lesson, and others. In the details of the

system there is still much uncertainty, though more in some
groups than others. And this uncertainty can only be cleared
up by a more rigorous analysis of external characters, combined
with anatomical investigation. This last has already been suc
cessfully resorted to in some families, for the determination of
true affinities. Thus, Mr. Yarrell, by studying the internal struc
ture of the Anatidae, has sketched out an arrangement of this

group t, which Mr. Swainson finds in accordance with his own

Jviews on the subject derived from the external characters and

habits. The same gentleman has recorded some important notes§
respecting the internal organization of Cereopsis and some allied
species, serving in like manner to confirm the notions previously
entertained respecting the affinities of these birds. There can
be no doubt also that we may derive much assistance from study
ing the systems of those authors who, like Blainville and
L'Herminier, have taken some one of the internal organs as the
basis of their arrangement. For however it may be true that
no such arrangement can be natural in itself, founded upon cha
racters derived from one organ exclusively, yet it affords an in-

· I speak of the groups themselves without reference to any particular names
for them.

+ Linn. Trans., vol. xv. p. 378.       J Fn. Bor. Am., vol. ii. p. 436.
§ Proceed, of Zool. Soc. 1831, p. 25.
REPORT ON ZOOLOGY.                                               171

sight into the method of variation of that organ, teaches us in
consequence its exact value, and when viewed in connexion with

other systems previously established upon other characters, may
serve to correct and perfect many details in these last beyond

Iwhat we might be able to do by any other method. With re

ference to this end, besides the above, may refer to a system
of Dr. Ritgen, in the Transactions of the Caesarean Academy at
Bonn*, established upon the characters of the pelvis, as one,
not to be adopted entire, but capable perhaps of furnishing some
valuable hints which might otherwise be lostf.

   The external characters of birds have recently received much

attention from M. Isidore Geoffroy St. Hilaire, who has published
a memoir on this subject in the Nouv. Ann. du Mus.% which de

serves to be consulted by all ornithologists. He has reviewed
those in most general use, and pointed out several of which he
thinks the proper value has not been correctly appreciated. He
particularly mentions the emargination of the bill, so much
trusted to in characterizing the Dentirostres, as one to which too
much importance has been attached. On the other hand, he
regards the disposition of the toes, in the Passeres more parti
cularly, as not having been sufficiently studied in a general point
of view. His researches indeed on this point have led him to
propose a new arrangement of the order just mentioned, which
he divides into the three groups of Zygodactyly, Syndactyles,
and Deodactyles, this last comprising the great bulk of the
genera, which have the toes divided in the regular way. Hence
it will be seen that he does not side with those who regard the
Scansores as forming a distinct order. The feet of the Passeres,
and the characters which they furnish, have likewise been much

attended to by M. Dela Fresnaye, who has also proposed a new

arrangement of this order §, though not exactly upon the same
plan as Geoffroy's. The year previously to that in which Isidore
Geoffroy published the above memoir, he gave some new obser
vations in the Annales des Sciences || relating to the characters
of the Strigidce in particular, to which however it would occupy
too much room to allude more particularly.

   The structure and mode of development of feathers, which has
been so ably illustrated by Fred. Cuvier^, and subsequently by

· torn. xiv. p. 217.

t The pelvis of birds has been recently studied by M. Bourjot St. Hilaire,
and made the subject of a memoir, read to the Royal Academy of Sciences at
Paris in August last. See L'Institut, No. 66, p. 266.  J torn. i. p. 357.
§ See an abstract of M. De la Fresnaye's memoir in the report of the French
Congress held at Caen in 1833, p. 69. See also other memoirs by him on the
same subject in Guerin's Mayasin de Zoologie for 1832 and 1833.

H 1830, torn. xxi. p. 194.  1| Mem. da Mus. 1825, torn. xiii. p. 327.
    172 FOURTH REPORT-- 1834.

    other observers*, is perhaps too much within the province of
    pure animal physiology to require notice here. The laws, how
    ever, which regulate the assumption and changes of plumage are
    of the utmost consequence for the exact discrimination of species .
    These laws have received great attention from Mr. Yarrell, who

    h"asWlhaetenleyvearddaeddulot nbeirdtos   those previously establishedf, viz. that
                                             assume a plumage during the breeding-
    season decidedly different in colour from that which they bear in
    the winter, the young have a plumage intermediate in the gene
    ral tone of its colour compared with the two periodical states of
    the parent birds, and bearing                  aplesorioindd."icatiIonnstheofstahme ecoploaupresr  to be
    afterwards attained at either
                                                                                                       Mr.
    Yarrell has stated some experiments, the results of which fully
    establish the point that in many cases a change of plumage is
    certainly occasioned by a change of colour in the feather itselfj,
    quite independently of moulting.
        The difficulty of finding specific characters for birds which
    shall be applicable to both sexes and all ages, particularly in
    those groups in which the changes of plumage above alluded to

    are most prevalent, has been severely felt by ornithologists. Mr.
    Macgillivray has considered this subject in a paper published in
    the 4th volume of the Wernerian Memoirs^. He has pointed
    out the insufficiency of some of those in common use, particu
    larly such as are derived from colour. He thinks it would be
    possible to obtain others, from the situation, form, and position
    of the feathers, which would be more preferable, as being of

    general application and founded upon permanent and essential
    organs. Mr. Macgillivray has annexed, as examples, the cha
    racters of several species drawn up in this manner. His sug
               dsuecshervcehatroacbteersconwsiildlebreedf,ouanldtho"ugshuffiitcimenatyly bediqvueerssitfiioended"
    gestions
    whether

    to  3a.dmRiet polfilibae,inCguavd. --optTehde  in all cases.
                                                    study of the
                                                                  animals  belonging to

    this division of the Vertebrata is difficult, and has received far

    less attention from naturalists than that of either of the preced
    ing classes. Hence we are at present but little advanced in the
    details of their natural arrangement. The propriety of separat
    ing off the Amphibia, and considering these last as a distinct
    class, is becoming every day more generally acknowledged. This
    separation was first proposed by Latreille || so long ago as in

    · See more particularly Macgillivray in Edinb. New Phil Journ. 1827.
    t Zool. Trans., vol. i. p. 13.
       % This had been often suspected to be the case, (see Whitear in Linn. Trans.,
    vol. xii. p. 524, and Fleming in Edinb. Phil. Journ., vol. ii. p. 271,) but never
    before ascertained by direct experiment.
                                             || .\'ouv. Did. d'llist. Nat., 1st edition.
    § p. 517.

-,
                          REPORT ON ZOOLOGY.                                            173

1 804. It has not been adopted however by Cuvier, who divides
the whole group into four orders, Cht'-louiens, Sauriens, Ophi-
die/is, and Batraciens, being the same arrangement as that of
Brongniart*. Blainvillet follows Latreille in considering the
Reptilia and Amphibia as distinct classes, but differs from all
his predecessors in his subordinate groups. Attaching more im
portance to the organs of generation than those of locomotion,
he has thought fit to unite the Saurians and Ophidians under
the name of Bispeniens ; at the same time detaching the Croco
diles to form a distinct order, which he calls Emydosauriens.
The class Amphibia he divides into four orders, Batracieus,
Pseudosaurieus or Salamanders, Subichthyens (Proteus, Siren,

&c.), and Pseudophydiens (Ccecilia). In 1820, Merrem pub
lished his arrangement of the Amphibia%, under which name,

although he includes both the above classes, he considers these
as forming two divisions, which he calls Pholidota and Batra-
chia respectively. His Pholidota are distributed into three or
ders, which correspond with those of Blainville, but are called
Testudinata, Loricata, and Squamata. The Batrachia include
the three subordinate groups of Apoda (Ccecilia), Salient ia
(Rana,8i.c.), and Gradientia (Triton, Proteus, &c.). Mr. Mac-
Leay§, adopting the Amphibia as a distinct class, would divide
the true Reptilia into the five groups of Chelonians, Emi/do-
saurians, Saurians, Dipod Ophidians, and Apod Ophidians.
He considers the first and last of these groups as meeting in
the Emys longicollis, thus causing the five to unite and form a
circle. He looks upon the whole class as connected with that
of Aves by means of the Chelonians. Latreille preserv
ing the Reptilia and Amphibia as distinct classes, divides||
the former into the two sections of Cataphracta and Squamosa.        ||,
His Cataphracta include Blainville's two orders of Chelonians
and Emydosaurians. The Squamosa, answering to the Bispe-                           is, a
niens of Blainville, comprise, as two other orders, his Sauri
ans and Ophidians. The Amphibia are divided into the two
         of Caducibranchia and  Poef rePnhnilib, raannchairara. ngemInen1t825o,f        Mr.
orders   published in the Ann.
Gray                                                                                     the

classes Reptilia and Amphibia, in conformity with MacLeay's
principles. As his primary groups are slightly modified in

later treatise on these animals, to be alluded to presently, perhaps
         unnecessary to specify them particularly. In 1826, Fitz-
it

     is

· Essai d'une Classification naturelle des Reptiles. Paris, 1805.
  Principes, &c, tab. 5.
§ Xt  Tentamcn Systematic Amphibiorum. Marpurg. 1820, 8vo. This work
strictly speaking, a second edition of one published by the same author in 1800.
      Hot. Ent., p. 263.        Fain. Nat.
174 FOURTH REPORT-- 1834.

inger published a new classification of these animals* founded
upon their natural affinities. He considers the Reptilia and
Amphibia of Latreille in the light of orders only, to which he
affixes the names of Monopnoa (Reptiles breathing all their life
                         Dipnoa (breathing by
by lungs  only) ,  and   will be seen that these  lungs and gills at
the same  time).                                  two groups corre
                     It
spond to the Pholidota and Batrachia of Merrem. The Mono
pnoa he divides into four tribes, the first three being the same as
Merrem's orders, with the same names; the fourth, called Nuda,
embracing the single family of Ceccilice. The Dipnoa he sepa
rates into the two tribes of Mutabilia and Immutabilia, the
former comprising those Amphibia which do, and the latter
those which do not, undergo metamorphosis. In the Nov. Act.
Sfc. Nat. Cur. for 1828, Dr. Ritgen has published an arrange
ment of the Amphibia in which he admits but three orders, an
swering to the Ophidia, Chelonia, and Sauria of other authors.
This last, however, is made to include the Batrachia as well as
the true Saurians. He has selected for most of his groups new
terms, which from their great length will never be adopted gene
rally. Waglerf has very much augmented the orders of this
class, in like manner as he has done those of the Mammalia and
Birds. He adopts eight : Testudines, Crocodili, Lacertai, Ser-
pentes, Angues (comprising the genera Acontias, Chirotes, Chal-
cides, and Amphisbeena of the Regne Anim.), Ccecilice, Ranee,
and Ichthyodi (Subichthyens of Blainville). In 1831, Mr. Gray
published his Synopsis Reptilium, of which only the first part
has as yet appeared, comprising the Cataphracta of Latreille,
whose arrangement is for the most part adopted, with the ex
ception of a new order instituted for the reception of the Ophio-

sauri, the second division of Latreille's order Saurii. C. L.

Bonaparte, in his Saggio di una Distribuzione, &c., published
the same year, adopts the term Amphibia as a general name for
the whole group of which we are treating. These he divides
into the two subclasses of Reptilia and Batrachia, which are
again divided into sections, the former into four, and the latter
into two, before arriving at the orders. Thus we have Sect. 1.
Testudinata, comprising the single order of Chelonii; Sect. 2.
Loricata, comprising the two orders of Enaliosaurii {Ichthyo
saurus and Plesiosaurus,) and Emydosaurii, Blainv. ; Sect. 3.
Squamata, comprising the three orders of Saurii, Saurophidii
{Amphisbeena), and Ophidii ; Sect. 4. Nuda, comprising the
single order of Batrachojihidii ( Ctscilia) . In the subclass Ba
trachia, we have Sect. 1 . Mutabilia, comprising the order Ca-

· Neue Classification der lieptilien, &c. 4to, Vienn. 1826.

t Naturliches System, &c.
                     REPORT ON ZOOLOGY.                                    1/5

ducibranchia ; and Sect. 2. Anvphipneusla (Immulabilia), com
prising the two orders of Cryptobranchia and Perennibranchia.
The most recent work in this department is that by Dumeril
and Bibron *, of which only the first volume has appeared hi
therto, containing remarks on the organization of Reptiles in
general, and the Chelonians in particular. There is also a very
complete Bibliography with reference to this branch of zoology.
The systematic portion of the work is not yet entered upon.
The authors, however, have it in view to adopt the same orders
as those of Cuvier.

The above are the principal authors who have treated of this
class as a whole, but some of its orders have received the par
ticular attention of different naturalists, and derived much illus

tration from their researches. No one has contributed so much
to our knowledge of the Chelonian Reptiles as Mr. Thomas Bell.
Several memoirs from him on these animals are to be found in

ttIohiemseaLsyinhJamKvoeinraegnpa TamrratoincvuseaalabcrtlleiyonSmsteerannntuidomnZ"ohoipsl.u"JboliMushornendoagli,nraap1m8h2o5nogffs,tthaenwdThoihcrihs

' 'Characters of the Order,Families, and Genera ofthe Testndinata"
published in 1828J. More recently (1833) Mr. Bell has com
menced a splendid work § on this order, in which it is intended
to describe and figure all the known species, arranged according
to their affinities. Seven parts have already appeared, which
for beauty and accuracy of        illustration  it is impossible to surpass.
Before quitting this group                      allude to a paper in the
                                  I may just
J.Ann. des Set. for 1828||, by MM. Isid. Geoffroy St. Hilaire and
   G. Martin, on    some parts of the   internal organization of these
Reptiles. Being     purely anatomical,
                                         I should not have noticed it,
did it not contain the statement of a curious fact respecting the
affinity well known to exist between the Chelonia and the Mo-
notremata. It is observed, that with regard to the urinary ap
paratus, the analogy between the Ornithorhynckus and the Tes-
tudo Indira is even much greater than that which is found be

tween this last species and many other reptiles belonging to the

same order.

The Emydosauria were closely investigated by Cuvier and
Geoffroy, by the former more especially, in the             part of
the present century, and since their researches  Ief,arlIy  am not

· Erpetologie generate, ou Jlistoire Naturelle Complete des Reptiles, torn. i.
Paris, 1834.
                                        X Zool. Journ., vol. iii. p. 513.
t Zool. Journ., vol. ii. p. 299.                 || torn. xiii. p. 153.
\§ Monograph of the Testndinata. fol. 1833, &c.
See the earlier volumes of the Ann. da Mus., more particularly vol. x., con
taining a valuable memoir by Cuvier on the different species of living Crocodiles,
and their distinctive characters. For the structure of these animals, see his

Ossemens Fossiles.
176 FOURTH REPORT-- 1834.

aware that much addition has been made to our knowledge of
this group. Nevertheless there is great need of further exami
nation in order to determine the value of those characters which

have been hitherto employed in distinguishing the species. It
may reasonably be questioned whether these have not been over-
multiplied, from placing too great reliance upon slight differences
Iin the form and number of the nuchal, cervical, and dorsal plates.

   may mention a memoir by Geoffroy on the Gavials, as more
recent than his others, published in 1825*, in which he has
treated largely of their organization and affinities. He consi
ders the former as offering sufficient peculiarities to warrant the
establishing of a distinct genus of this group, which Cuvier re
garded as merely a subgenus of Crocodilus.
   The  ISnatuhreiaAnnnR. eopftilPehs ilh, afvoer                          to by Mr.
Gray.                                              been  much attended
                                                   1827     he has given     synopsis
                                                 J
                                                              i",
                                                                           a
                                                                                            a

                                                                                    it
of the genera belonging to this group. In subsequent paper
published in the same volume he has made some additions
and corrections to his first communication. He has made a par
ticular object to revise the species of Chamceleon. To M. Milne
Edwards we are indebted for a paper in the Ann. <Ies Set. for

1829§, which though relating only to the restricted genus La-
certa, may be found valuable in general point of view from
                                                   a

the remarks which contains on the zoological characters of
                    it

this group. Those who have studied these reptiles know what
difficulty attends the discrimination of species. Milne Edwards
has sought to remove this difficulty. He has ascertained that
in this genus the best distinguishing characters are derived from
the different kinds of scales, more especially the large squamous
plates which cover the upper part of the head. He particularly
dwells on the relative size of the occipital and parietal plates,
and the forms of the scales between the eye and the ear||. He
does not place much reliance on the character derived from the
number of femoral pores, which he finds often varying in the
same species, although considered as constant by Merrem and
Blainville. In the same volume with the above memoir one
                                                          ;

                                                                    it
                                                                       is is
by M. Duges, treating partly of the same subject and                                           sa
                    that he confirms
tisfactory to find                                  what Edwards says respect
ing the characters  of the scales. It              may be observed that Wagler

appears to have derived much assistance from the teeth in cha
racterizing both the Emydosaurian and Saurian Reptiles. In
one portion of his work he has treated of this subject in great

* Mem. du Mus., tom. xii.                                vol. ii. N.S. p. 54.
                                                         a §f
      P- 207.                                                                                                                 .
|| I                                                     tom. xvi. p. 50.
      Merrem and others had previously availed themselves of these characters,
but according to Edwards, they have not made judicious use of them, or se
lected those scales on which any reliance can be placed.
       REPORT ON ZOOLOGY.                                177

detail, and given minute descriptions of the teeth as they occur
in all the different genera in the above two orders. . ·

   Among the Ophidia more perhaps remains to be done than
in any other order of Reptiles. Many new genera and species
have been discovered of late years, and described by different

authors ; but of several the characters and synonyms are ill

determined, and their affinities still more so. Mayer has pro
posed a new arrangement of this group*, founded on the pre
sence or absence of rudimentary posterior extremities, which he
has succeeded in detecting in many genera in which they were
not before known to exist. He would adopt as three subordi
nate divisions : 1 . Phcenopoda, in which these extremities are
externally visible ; 2. Cryptopoda, in which they are entirely
concealed beneath the skin ; 3. Chondropoda, in which the ru-
dimental feet are reduced to mere cartilaginous slips, and Apoda,
in which they are entirely wanting. M. Duvernoy, in the Ann.
des Scien. for 1832f, has entered upon the consideration of the
anatomical characters which serve to distinguish the venomous
from the innocuous serpents. As these groups are kept distinct
by Cuvier, as well as by some others, in their systematic ar
rangement of the Ophidia, such researches may prove service
able to the zoologist in helping him to the true situation of some

genera. In a later volume of the same workj, M. Duvernoy

 has followed up this inquiry, as well as treated of some other
 parts of the internal organization of serpents in general. On
 the subject of the alimentary canal, he particularly observes that
 it offers sensible differences in different genera, and such as may
 serve to confirm or lessen the propriety of adopting some of those

 which have been established by naturalists. In this last com

 munication, he has also made some remarks § on the forms and
 arrangement of the scales on the head and body considered as
 zoological characters. He thinks that such characters require
 to be compared afresh with those derived from the internal
 structure, in order that their true value may be more correctly
 ascertained. The genus Ceecilia, which by some has been asso
 ciated with the true Reptiles, by others with the Amphibia, has

 been recently discovered by M. Miiller|| to possess gills in the

 very young state, which fact seems to corroborate its claims to
 a place in the class last mentioned.

    The structure of the Amphibia has been much studied of late
 years, and has given rise to many excellent memoirs on the part
 of different observers. As these, however, are for the most part

* Nova Acta Acad. Nat. Cur., torn. xii. p. 819.          t torn. xxvL p. 113.
X torn. xxx. pp. 5 and 113.
|| Ann. des Scien. 1832, torn. xxv. p. 89.     § p. 25.

1834.                                       N
178 FOURTH REPORT 1834.

purely anatomical, it would be out of place to dwell on them in
this Report. Yet we                          to one as of more importance
to zoology than some      moathyerasl.ludeI  refer to Dr. Davy's discovery
of a second auricle in the heart of these animals, which will lead

us to correct what was always considered as one of their distin
guishing characters, viz., their having a single heart like Fishes *.
The Perennibranchiate Amphibia received some time back much
illustration from Cuvier, whose researches on this subject will
be found in the first volume of Humboldt's Comparative Anato-
myf He was led to regard the Siren and Proteus as adult
animals, but suspected the Axolotl to be a larva. In 1819,
MM. Configliachi and Rusconi published a valuable monograph %
on the Proteus anguhius, containing a full account of the struc
ture and natural history of this singular animal. Dr. Rusconi is
the author of another work, published in 1821 §, in which he has
treated of the aquatic Salamanders, detailing some interesting
observations respecting the mode of development of these Rep
tiles. This subject                                  previously followed           up with
so much closeness of      had not been              may be stated that in          this last

                          research. It
work Dr. Rusconi has doubted the accuracy of Cuvier's views
respecting the Siren being an adult animal. Cuvier has recon
sidered the subject in his Ossemens Fossiles^ ; but still adheres
to his former opinion on this point. From examining the os
teology of this reptile, he feels satisfied that it never acquires
hind feet, as Rusconi supposes, and deems it very improbable
that it ever changes its form or loses its branchiae. That the
Siren is not the larva state of the Amphiuma of Garden, as
some imagine, Cuvier has endeavoured to prove in a memoir
upon this last genus published in the Mem. du Mus.% for 1827-

   · Edinb. New Phil. Journ. 1828, p. 160. Dr. Davy's researches went no
further than to show the existence of a second auricle in several species of the
genus liana; but reasoning from analogy, he thought it probable that the same
would be the case in all the other genera of this group. These suspicions have
      since partly confirmed by Mr.    Owen, {Proceed. ofZool. Soc.                      31,)
been  has lately given the results of  an examination of the hearts           1834, p.    ge
who
                                                                             of several

nera of the Perennibranchiate Amphibia, in all of which he finds it consisting

JpAoanf ra\thtlre."eseRCeNocdmahitseputr.i,rcnahclteiotssrtncea.asvnii.jtaietpfos.am,it9eiu3asus--eiasn12lt's6hou.ecrcahlesisigohnReerpdteRileel'psAtxUroeiagloa.trld, espaernMco.reCucvoimerm."a--doHuutemuxb.

     Del Proteo Anguino di Laurenti Monografia. Pavia, 1819. An excellent
analysis of this work will be found in the Edinb. Phil. Journ. for 1821, vols. iv.
and v.

§ Amours des Salamandres aquatiquet, el Developpemenl du Tetard de cet
Salamandres, depuis KEufjusqua I'Animal parfait. Milan, 1821. An analysis
 of this work also will   be found   in the Edinb.  Phil. Journ.  for 1823,        ix.
                          418, Src.                 K torn. xiv.             vol.
. || torn. v. Pt. II. p.                                          p. 1.
                REPORT OX ZOOLOGY.                            179

  4. Pisces. -- It is generally allowed that this class is connected

by close affinity with those Batrachian Reptiles which have
permanent gills. That it also leads back to the Mammalia by
means of the viviparous sharks, which approach the cetaceous
animals, will scarcely be doubted by any who have considered
the relative organizations of these last groups. Yet no one ap
pears to have thought of placing the Fish between the Mamma

lia and Amphibia before Mr. MacLeay, whose circular arrange

ment of the classes of Vertebrata is certainly the only one yet
given that conforms itself to nature. As a class, the Fish have

received but comparatively little attention from naturalists ; and
from the time of the appearance of the first edition of the Regne
Animal of Cuvier, to that of the Hist. Nat. des Poissons by the
same illustrious author, but few attempts have been made by
other individuals to elucidate their true affinities. Several works
of great merit, descriptive of the fish of different countries have

appeared, and many detached memoirs on particular genera and
species, but no work of a regular systematic character since that
of Lace"pede.

    Cuvier's system, as developed in the first edition of the Regne
Animal, is very different from that of Lace'pede, which he objects
to as having all the secondary groups established upon charac
ters drawn from the presence or absence of the opercle and
branchiostegous rays, which Cuvier observes will often lead to
glaring violations of natural affinity, not to mention the circum
stance that in many instances Lacepede has assumed these parts
to be wanting where they are really present. Cuvier adopts as
primary divisions the two groups of Cartilaginous and Osseous
Fishes, commencing with the former, which he divides into the
two orders of Chondropte'rygiens a branchies fixes and Chondro
pte'rygiens a branchies libres. The osseous fishes he divides into
six orders. The first of these, Plectognathes, is characterized
by a peculiar mode of articulation of the jaws, and comprises
some of the genera before included in the old order of Branchi-
ostegi, which is here abolished. The second, Lop hob ranches, is

founded upon a peculiar form of the gills, and includes but the
two genera Syngnathus and Pegasus of Linnaeus. The remain
ing orders comprise the Malacopterygii and Acanthopterygii of
Artedi, the former group being divided into three orders ac
cording to the position of the ventrals, the latter kept entire as
one order.
  Blainville's  arrangement  of this class * does not differ  materially

from that of Gmelin, excepting that the leading groups have
new names affixed to them, and new distinguishing characters.

                · Principes, Sfc, tab. 6.

                             N2
180 FOURTH REPORT -- 1834.

Thus, the osseous fishes he terms Poissons Gnathodontes, from
having their teeth implanted in the jaws, in contradistinction to
the cartilaginous fishes, which he calls Dermodontes, from the

teeth in this group adhering simply to the skin. In like man

ner he calls the Branchiostegi of Gmelin by the name of H6t6-
rodermes, or fish in which the structure of the skin is variable
in its nature, as opposed to the ordinary fish, which he terms
Squamodermes. The subordinate groups are established upon
the presence or absence, and on the position (either jugular,
thoracic, or abdominal,) of the ventrals, leading in too many
instances to unnatural combinations as well as separations.

    Latreille in his Families Naturelles considers the cartilagi
nous and osseous fishes as forming two distinct classes in his
great division of Solibranchia, which he terms Ichthyodera and
Pisces respectively. He removes, however, the chondroptery-
gious fishes with free gills into the latter class, which is pri
marily divided into the two groups of Anomalia and Normalia.
The Anomalia comprise, besides the Sturionii of Cuvier, his
two orders Plectognathes and Lop/utbr -(mches. The Normalia
include the remaining orders of that naturalist, arranged how
ever somewhat differently from what they are in the Regne

Animal. In the order Acanthopte'rygiens, before arriving at

the families, he adopts a primary division into the two sections
Kystophora and Akystica, characterized respectively by the
presence or absence of a swimming bladder.

   Risso, in the 3rd volume of his Hist. Nat. de I'Eur. Merid.,

published in 1826, has given an arrangement of this class ac
cording to his own views. His orders, however, are nearly the
same as those of Gmelin. He only substitutes the orders
Plectognathes and Lophobranches of Cuvier for the Branchio

steBgei soidfetshethfeormabeorvea,utIhoarm. not acquainted with any systematic

arrangements of this class, deserving notice, prior to that of the

Hist. Nat. des Poissons by MM. Cuvier and Valenciennes. In this

work, of which the first volume appeared in 1828, the leading
groups remain the same as in the Regne Animal. The details
of the arrangement are however slightly modified *. And un-

· One alteration consists in the commencing with the osseous, instead of the
cartilaginous fishes. Cuvier observes, however, with reference to this point, that,
strictly speaking, these groups form two parallel series, neither being superior
or inferior to the other.      See    Hp.is3t.76N. --at.LdaetrsePilloeisss.e,emtosrn.to              and Regne
Animal (second edit.),     torn. ii.                                                     i. p. 419,  the Fish as
                                                                                         consider
forming two series, which, after a time, unite and become one. His arrange
ment of the groups in these parallel lines  is,
                                                 however, different from Cuvier'».
See Fam. Nat. p. 115, note (1).
                        REPORT ON ZOOLOGY.                                                       181

doubtedly much, very much remains still to be done before we
can consider these details as not susceptible of any further im
provement. Cuvier's groups are on the whole natural and
well characterized; but the true position of many of them is
extremely doubtful *, and their relative value as yet undeter
mined. He has done much, however, towards determining the
value of certain characters which had been considered in very
different points of view by former ichthyologists, especially that
derived from the structure of the dorsal rays. He states it to be his
firm opinion, deduced from a careful study of the entire organi
zation in several hundred species, that the acanthopterygious
fishes ought to be kept quite distinct from the others, and that
whatever characters may be resorted to for the further subdivision
of the  normal fishes,
above                    they must be held subordinate to the one
        mentioned. It   is mainly in consequence of having attached
too little importance to this character, and set too high a value

upon that derived from the position of the ventrals, that Lin
naeus and several of the more recent authors have entirely failed
in their attempts at a natural arrangement of this class. No one
has made better use than Cuvier of the characters derived from

the structure of the jaws f, and the nature and position of the
teeth ; and perhaps in certain groups we can hardly select any
of more importance. For the teeth he has adopted a peculiar
set of terms, expressive of the different forms which they assume.
These terms are, however, better adapted to the French than to
the English language. On the whole, it may be observed, that
although there may be some parts of his arrangement found de
fective, Cuvier has done more for this department of zoology
               else. His Histoire                                            des Poissons must
than any one   forming a real epoch                                                              ever be
considered as                                                                in ichthyology. If  we look
to the profound erudition it displays, the thorough knowledge
of its author with respect to all that had been done by previous
writers on this class, the close and accurate researches which

he has made into every part of the internal as well as external
organization of the subjects of which he treats, the minuteness
of detail which characterizes the description of species, at the

· It is more than probable that Cuvier has in some instances mistaken re
lations of analogy for those of affinity. One such instance has been pointed
out by Mr. Bennett (see Zool. Journ., vol. iii. p. 372,) in the case of the genus
Lophitu.
f Cuvier first called the attention of naturalists to this part in a memoir
published in 1815, in the first volume of the Mem. du Museum (p. 102.). One
if                                                                           that the characters derived from the

                                                                        is,
of the conclusions at which he arrives

pieces of the upper jaw and palatine arch, their various positions, proportions,
&c., serve to indicate genera, but cannot be employed in distinguishing orders,
we wish to preserve natural affinities.
182 ' FOURTH REPORT -- 1834.

same time that every attempt is made towards generalization, it

will be thought impossible to speak too highly of its merits. It

is almost a perfect model for works of this nature, and deserves
to be consulted by all naturalists engaged in similar undertak

ings. It cannot but be a subject of deep regret that its talented

author has not lived to complete a work, for which he tells us he
had been forty years collecting materials. Let us hope, however,

that this may be yet effected by M. Valenciennes, whom, fortu
nately for the scientific world, M. Cuvier had from the begin

ning engaged as his coadjutor.

   A slight modification of Cuvier's arrangement appears in the
Saggio di una Distribuzione,8jc, of C. L. Bonaparte, published

in 1831, principally as regards the value of some of the groups.

In the first place, the osseous and cartilaginous fishes are con

sidered as two subclasses. The former are then primarily di

vided into three sections: 1. Pectinibranchii, comprising
the two orders Acanthopterygii and Malawpterygii; 2. Lo-
phobranchii, including the single order of Osteodermi {Syn-
gnathus); and 3. Plectognathi, comprising the two orders

Gymnodontes and Sclerodermi. The Malacopterygii are sub
divided into the three tribes of Abdominales, Subbrachiani, and
Apodes. Thus we have two of Cuvier's orders raised to a higher
rank than that which he assigned to them ; while on the other
hand there are three lowered to a subordinate denomination.

In like manner we have the cartilaginous fishes divided into the
two sections of Chismopnei and Trematopnei : the former

comprising the two orders of Eleutheropomi (Sturiones) and
Acanthorrhini {Chimteree), the latter those of Plagiostomi and

Cyclostomi. A similar alteration in the value of some of Cuvier's
groups will be found here.

   The most recent work on ichthyology, and one of the most

important which has yet appeared, is that by M. Agassiz, now

in course of publication*. Although the object of its author is
more particularly to illustrate the fossil fishes, it is his intention
to bring forward an entirely new classification of fish in general.
The details of his arrangement are not yet published. He has,
however, put forth a slight sketch of his system, such as will
serve to show the striking changes which he contemplates in

    ·  nRuemchbcerrcsheshavesuhritlheserPtooisaspopnesarFeods.si--lesM, .pAagr aLsosuizis   Agassiz, 1833, &c.    Only
two                                                                                        was before known     to ich

thyologists from having assisted Spix in the description of his Fishes of Brazil.
This work was published in 1829 under the following title: Selecta Genera et

Speciet Piscium quos in Itinere collegit Spix; descripsit L. Agassiz. fol. In
1830, M. Agassiz had also announced the prospectus of a work on the Fresh
water Fishes of Europe. This last has, however, not yet appeared.
                           RKPOKT ON ZOOLOGY.                                                                         183

this department of zoology. Thus, he adopts but four orders,
afiinpshoeedasc,ah--ndobfoawtbhhdiocAmhcainanratehl ogtopentbeeerryafg,o--iuannadsndba,ontidhn
                                                                                                osseous and cartilaginous
                                                                                                Malacopterygians, -- both
                                                                                                two out of the four, tho
racic and jugular genera besides. Hence it will be seen that his
principal divisions are founded neither on the degree of ossifica
tion of the skeleton, nor on the structure of the vertical fins, nor
on the position of the ventrals, as is the case in those systems

which have been hitherto most generally adopted. M. Agassiz
thinks he finds in the differences of the scales the most exact
indication of the natural affinities of all fish. Accordingly it
is from the scales that he has drawn the diagnostic characters

of his four orders, (which bear respectively the names of Pla-
coides, Ganoides, Ctenoides, and Cycloides,) although in form
ing them he has kept in view all the rest of the organization.
Ichthyologists will doubtless be impatient to see the full deve
lopment of a system founded upon views so entirely opposed to
all those which they had previously entertained on the subject.
   The science of ichthyology has been so little cultivated, that
there are but few individuals to whom it is necessary to refer in
this Report, besides those who have been already mentioned.
Many have made great contributions to the anatomy of fish,

Iamongst whom Geoffroy St. Hilaire stands preeminent ; but
allude to such only as have thrown light upon the affinities of
Ithe larger groups, or helped us to a better knowledge of their
zoological characters.     must not, however, omit to mention

an important paper on the fishes of the Lake of Geneva by
M. Jurine, published in 1825,   in the third volume                                                 of the M&m.
de la Soc. de Phys. et d'Hist.                                                                      is not merely
                                Nat. de Geneve. It

valuable as a local catalogue, but as containing several new cha
racters for distinguishing the species of Cyprinidee, which is per
haps one of the worst understood families in the whole class *.
This memoir is accompanied by remarkably accurate figures of
all the species found in the above locality. The scales of fish

fwere, some years back, particularly studied by M. Kuntzmann,

whose memoir on this subject will have acquired fresh interest
since naturalists have had their attention again directed to it by
M. Agassiz. M. Kuntzmann has not only entered into consi
derable details with respect to the structure of these organs in

   · Cuvier has somewhere observed that in general the freshwater fishes, at

least those of foreign countries, are much less known and understood than those
found on the coasts.

I  t Verhandlung der Getell. Nat. Freunde in Berlin, vol.                                       i.  No. 5,  1824, p.  2G9.
                                                                                                in  Bull,   det Set.  Nat.
   am, however, only acquainted with the analysis of it
J 826, torn. vii. p. 118.
184 FOURTH REPORT-- 1834.

different groups, but considered their value as furnishing cha
racters for distinguishing species. He seems to think, that in
general, if not in all cases, they are available for this purpose,
and advises that selection be made of those which are placed on
the middle of the sides of the body, and near the lateral line, not
only as being the largest, but as those in which the form is most

constant in a given species. M. Kuntzmann has instituted se
veral divisions or  ctolastsheesirafmoormngsat ndscsatlreus,ctiunrew. hicIht
ranged according                                                                                                      they are ar
                                                                                                                      would, how

Iever, occupy too much room to follow him in this part of his

subject. Before quitting this class, may just allude to two
papers by Dr. Hancock, in the London Quarterly Journal of
Science for 1 830 *, in which he has made some remarks on the
composition of the fin rays in fishes. Dr. Hancock has dwelt
much upon the importance of the character derived from the
number of these rays, which he considers as offering the best
diagnostic marks for the discrimination of species. This cha
racter, however, must be employed with some limitation, since
it will be found much more variable in some groups than others.

                    II. An nu LOSA, Cuv.

Cuvier, in his Begne Animal, places this division below that
of the Mollusca, which last he appears to have regarded as
standing higher in the scale of organization on account of its
circulatory system. Geoffroy, guided by his peculiar views re
specting the vertebral structure of the Annulosa, to which allu
                                                                                                                      propriety of this
gasiirovraenngpheraemsceebndeteennfc,ea.alrnedadIctyoinsmsioadbdeversi,outhsha,asthdotihwsepeuvMteeord,llutthshcaeat   should decidedly

                                                                                                                      these two groups

are formed upon such entirely different plans, that they scarcely
admit of direct comparison in this respect. Each has its own
peculiar marks of affinity with the higher animals ; and it is only
by supposing two points of departure from the Vertebrata, and
arranging the Invertebrata in a double series, that we shall pre
                                              nature. This double
sent a system at all conformable       with                                                                           route,
indeed, was long since pointed           out  by Lamarck J, and                                                       subse

quently by Latreille§, MacLeay||, and BlainvilleU. Latreille has
reconsidered the subject in his latest work, the Cours iTJRn-

Intomologie, published in 1831. He there supposes** the

· pp. 136, 287.
t See his Cours de I'f/isl. Nat. des Mammif., Lecons 2 & 3.
   Hut.  Nat. des An. sans  Vert., torn. i. p. 457.
%  In a  memoir published   in 1820 under the title of  Passage                                                       des Animaux
§                                                                                                                       ** p. 15.
lnverlbbrh aitx Vertehris. 8vo.
|| Hora Entom.jt. 206, and elsewhere.
^i Principes d'Anat. Comp., tab. 2.
                         REPORT ON ZOOLOGY.                                    185

vertebrata to be arranged on two lines, one occupied by the
Crustacea, Arachnida, and Insecta, the other by the Mollusca
and Zoophyta : he then supposes a lateral branch from the
Mollusca to the Crustacea, passing successively through the
Cirripeda, Annelida, and Entozoa, the connecting link at this
end of the ramification being found in the LernceiB of Linnaeus.
That this arrangement is, however, not quite correct, is rendered
probable by discoveries connected with the Cirripeda to be here
after spoken of, and by the indisputable affinity between the
Annelida and Cyclostomous Fishes, which affinity points to the
former group as being necessarily at the headof one series, and
therefore not forming part of any lateral ramification *.

   The following are the classes considered by Cuvier as belong
ing to the Annulose type : Annelida, Crustacea, Arachnida,
and Insecta.

  Mr. MacLeay adopts tfive classes independently oiihe Anne

lida, which he regards as an osculant group connecting the ver
tebrate and annulose animals. Two of these are the Crustacea
and Arachnida of Cuvier. Two others are formed out of the

old class Insecta, and are the same as Clairville's groups of
Mandibulata and Haustellata. The fifth, to which the name
of Ametabola is given, includes the Myriapoda and Thysanura

· Latreille seems to consider, as he had done in his original memoir on this
subject, that the Crustacea are the most perfect of the articulated animals, and
that therefore they necessarily approach nearest to the Vertebrata. Mr.
MacLeay has controverted both these points. He maintains that Insects are
more highly organized than Crustacea. Furthermore he observes, that so far
from its being by the most perfect, it is by the least perfect group in the series
that we might naturally                 find  a passage to the Vertebrata.
vertebrate animal would  expect  toto"  have  been constructed with reference  Every
                         seem                                                  to one

type, and every annulose with reference to another ; and as the former is more
imperfect in its organization according as it approaches the annulose structure,
so the latter is more imperfect in proportion as it possesses a distinct system of

circulation and other characteristics of the Vertebrata. It thus follows that the
animals which connect them ought to be extremely imperfect in their organi
zation." Such animals are the Cyclostomous Fishes on the one hand, and the
Annelida on the other, the striking affinity between which groups has been
noticed both by Lamarck and Cuvier. See Hor. Ent., p. 292, &c, for a further

development of Mr. MacLeay's reasoning. It cannot be doubted that his views

on this last point are correct. They likewise fall in with those of Straus-Durck-
heim, who has touched on the same subject in the Introduction to his valuable
work on the structure of the Articulated Animals (Consid. Gen. sur I'Anat.
Comp. des An. Artie, pp. 13, 15, 20.) published in 1828. Geoffrey, however,
agrees with Latreille in thinking that the Crustacea should follow immediately
after the Fish. See Mim. du Mas., tom. xvi. p. 2 ; also Cours de I'Hist. Nat. des
Mammif., Lee. 3, p. 18. Hobiucau Desvoidy entertains the same opinion.

Recherches, fyc, p. 78.

   t Hor. Ent., pp. 288 and 390.
186 FOURTH REPORT -- 1834.

of Latreille, the Anoplura of Dr. Leach, and a portion of the
Entozoa of Rudolphi. Mr. MacLeay has endeavoured to show
that these five groups unite to form a circle.
   In Blainville's Principes, &c, we find the Annulosa forming
his third type, Entomozoaires*, which he divides into eight
classes, characterized according to the presence or absence,
and when present the number or nature, of the appendages for
locomotion. The Annulosa with articulated feet he distributes

under the six classes Hexapodes, Octopodes, De"capodes, Hite"-
rojwdes, Tetradtcapodes, and Myriapodes ; the first including
the true Insects, the second the Arachnida of Cuvier, the third,

fourth, and fifth the Crustacea of that author. The inarticulated
Annulosa, comprising the Annelida of Cuvier, form his seventh

and eighth classes, called C/ietopodes (with setiform appendages,)
and Apodes (deprived of appendages altogether) . The last of
these two includes also some of the Entozoa. Few will pro
bably be disposed to adopt this arrangement, which leads to di
visions of very unequal value.
   In the Families Naturelles of Latreille, the Annulosa (or, as

they are there termed, Condylopa,) arc primarily divided into
the two sections of Hyperhexapi and Hexapoda, according as
the feet are more than six, or six only, in the adult state, the
former term being adopted from Savigny. The Hyperhexapi
include the three classes Crustacea, Arachnida, and Myriapoda,
this last being adopted from Dr. Leach, who first instituted it in
a paper read to the Linnsean Society in 1814 t- The Hexapoda
comprise the single class of Insecta. The Annelida are referred
by Latreille to a different branch of his arrangement of the
Animal Kingdom.
   Straus-Durckheim, in his                       VAnat. Comp.
des Anim. Artie, published   Consid. Ge'ner. sur
                             in 1828, considers   the articulated

animals as including the five classes Annelida, Myriapoda,
Insecta, Crustacea, and Arachnida. To the end of the Intro

duction of his work he has annexed two synoptic tables, in
which he has represented what he conceives to be the true chain
of affinities connecting
                          these classes, and the principal groups
contained in them. It     would, however, occupy too much room
to follow him in these details.

   In the Cours d'Entomologie, published in 1831, Latreille
has adopted the same divisions as in the Fam. Nat. He only
substitutes the name of Apiropoda for that of Hyperhexapi.
1 shall now proceed to consider the progress and state of each

· Tab. 7.                    t Linn. Trans., vol. xl p. 306.
REPORT ON ZOOLOCY.                                     187

of the classes referred by Cuvier                      to this type of structure sepa
rate1l.y.AnnTeolidthae.s--e TI hsihsalcllaasdsd   Dr.  Leach's class of Myriapoda.
                                                       established by Cuvier in 1802.
                                                 was

Lamarck, who adopted it from him, was, however, the first to
assign to it its present name. The animals which it includes, al
though possessing great interest from the circumstance of their
forming the passage from the Annulose to the Vertebrate type,
have been comparatively but little studied, and have received the

attention of only a few naturalists. It is principally to Cuvier,
Savigny, Blainville, and to the more recent researches of Au-
douin and Edwards, that we are indebted for what knowledge
we have respecting them as a class. Cuvier more especially ex
amined their internal organization. His arrangement, in both
editions of the Jtegne Animal, is grounded upon the respiratory
organs, which furnish him with the characters of three groups,
which he terms orders : (1.) Tubicoles, in which the branchiae
are in the form of tufts attached to the head or anterior part of
the body, generally inhabiting shelly tubes ; (2.) Dorsibranches,
in which they are arranged down the back or along the sides of
the body; and (3.) Abranches, in which there are no distinct
branchiae visible. Savigny, whose valuable memoirs on these
animals * are inserted in the great French work on Egypt, paid
more attention to their external structure. He particularly
studied the conformation of those elastic and often brilliant

metallic-like setce, which in a great number of genera serve as
organs of motion. He also entered into a detailed examination of

the jaws, antennae, branchiae, and the membranaceous append
ages attached to the several articulations. His arrangement of
this class is very different from Cuvier's. He divides it into
five orders : (1 .) Ndrfittfes, comprising such genera as have re
tractile feet furnished with setae, a distinct head, and a mouth in

the form of a proboscis, generally armed with jaws ; (2.) Ser-
pulees, in which there are also feet furnished with setae, some
of these being hooked, but no distinct head ; (3.) Lombricines,
without feet or distinct head, but nevertheless furnished with
small setae ; (4.) Hirudine'es, without distinct head, feet, or setae,
but with a mouth in the form of a sucker; (5.) The last order,
of which he has not treated, he has left without a name. The
result of Blainville's researches into the structure of these ani
mals, which form his class Chetopodes, will be found in the

   · Recherches pour servir a la Classification des Annelides ; and Tableau
syslematique de la Classe des Annelides. The first of these memoirs was pre
sented to the Royal Academy of Sciences in 1817. An analysis of them both
will be found in Latreille's Report, published in the Mem. du Museum, tom. vi.
p. 93.
188 FOURTH REPORT-- 1834.

Bull, de la Soc. Phil, for 1818. He divides them into three

orders, the characters of which are drawn from the similarity or
dissimilarity of the segments of the body with relation to the
appendages, and the more or less marked                           of these
segments into head, thorax, and abdomen.     sIetpaisrantiootn  necessary
to give the names of his orders, as he has changed them in a
more recent dissertation on these animals published in the

Diet, ties Scien. Nat. *, and to which I refer the reader for
a full development of his views respecting their organization

and arrangement.

  The memoirs of MM. Audouin and Edwards on the Annelida,

which are the most recent, and at the same time the most

valuable that have yet appeared, are contained in the Annates
des Sciences for 1832-33. These acute observers have not only
discovered a vast many new species, but found some exhibiting
such peculiar characters, as render it necessary to institute
several new groups, and to remodel entirely the classification of
former authors. They remark that the system of Cuvier, although
adapted to the small number of species then known, cannot be
employed for the arrangement of many which have been since

discovered, without entailing violations of natural affinity. In
fact, they find that the presence or absence of the appendages
termed branchiae does not by any means constantly coincide
with the true characteristic marks of the different types of
organization presented by these animals, and that more than
one instance might be adduced of species presenting these two
modifications of structure, yet identical in all other respects,

and indisputably belonging to the same family, if not to the
same genus. The systems of Savigny and Blainville they state
to be attended by similar difficulties. What they propose is,
instead of confining their attention to the branchim only as the
basis of their classification, to take into account the different

membranaceous     appendages in general,     the consideration of
                 to more natural divisions.
which will lead                              It would seem indeed

from their researches, that although the branchiae are occa
sionally much developed, so that it is impossible to mistake their
function, or to confound them with the cirri and tentacula, yet in
other cases respiration is carried on by some of the other mem
branaceous appendages, all of which take up this function by
turns in different cases. Hence by considering these organs col
lectively, and attaching the same value to all of them, we shall
obtain characters of the first importance for the classification of

the Annelida. It is accordingly from these organs, which the

   · torn, lvii., Art. Vers. Also published separately under the title of Manuel
tTJIebninthologic.
                         REPORT ON ZOOLOGY.                                     189

authors term the soft appendages of the body, that they derive

the characters of their four primary divisions or orders, to which
they attach the names of Annelides errantes, Annelides tuhicoles
ou sedentaires, Annelides terricoles, and Annelides suceuses.

Audouin and Edwards have paid particular attention to the ex
ternal organization of the Annelida, and have made some inter
esting discoveries with respect to the structure and use of the
setce with which the feet are provided in the animals of their
first division, being those in which the organization is most com

plex. They have observed that these setae are not mere orna
ments or organs of motion, but offensive weapons of a very par
ticular structure, and such as can only be compared to the stings
of bees or the spines of certain fish. Savigny had noticed that
they were in general capable of being exserted from the body
and retracted at pleasure, but does not appear to have entered
Mso Md.eeApulydoiunitno  the details of         their
                         and Edwards            have   structure    as these authors.
                                                       submitted     them to a close

and microscopic examination, and have ascertained, that while
some are simple, assuming a great variety of different forms,
others are compound, always consisting of two parts, united by
an articulation, which gives way when the seta is employed for
offensive purposes, leaving the apical portion in the body of the

animal attacked.
   From giving a detailed account of the external organization of
the Annelida in general, MM. Audouin and Edwards proceed
to the subordinate groups. So far as they have hitherto ad

vanced in the subject, they have described at length the charac
ters of all the families and genera; but in regard to species, of
those only found on the coasts of France. To give any further
analysis of their labours would, however, be inconsistent with

the limits to which this Report must be restricted. It is, more
over, necessary that we should proceed to notice several indi
viduals who, though they have not written on this class as a
whole, have thrown great light upon some particular parts of it.
   The Hirudinidte especially have received more general atten
tion than any other group, which is doubtless owing to the valu
able services of these animals in medicine. Dr. Rawlins Johnson

is the author of two memoirs in the Philosophical Transac
tions for 1817, in one of which he has detailed some interesting
observations with respect to the habits and mode of propagation
of the Hirudo                                                       instituted
                         v*ulgfoarristho; sein  the other   he has  the mouth   the ge
nus Glossopora                                  species in  which                is fur
nished with a projectile tubular tongue, including the H. com-

* The same as the genus Clepsine of Savigny.
190 FOURTH REPORT -- 1834.

planata and H. stagnalis of authors, and some others. Dr.
Johnson has also written two treatises on the Medicinal Leech,
to the last of which is appended a reprint of the memoirs above
alluded to. In the Turin Memoirs for 1820*, Professor Ca-
rena has published a complete monograph of the genus Hirudo,
in which, notwithstanding the labours of Savigny, who paid great
attention to this family, he has described several new species,
besides elucidating the history and synonyms of others known
before. A supplement to Carena's monograph will be found in
                                           of the same Memoirs. In the Ann.
the  tSwceiennt.y-feoirgh1t8h25vof,lumMe.  Rayer has published some interesting
des
observations with respect to the capsules and ova of several
species of Hirudo, and the gradual development of the young.
In 1827 appeared nearly at                  the same time two other
                                                                      valuable
monographs on this family,                 one by Moquin-Tandon J,   the other
by Blainville §, this last being in part an extract from
                                                                     the Diet,
des Scien. Nat. In these works, which may serve as points of
departure to future observers, the history of these animals is
nearly complete up to the above time. In both will be found
considerable details with respect to their anatomy, physiology,

and habits, and likewise with respect to species. Of these last
Blainville enumerates thirty-six. Moquin-Tandon describes

thirty-seven, besides four which he considers as doubtful. It
may be stated that Derheims has also written upon this family ;
but Moquin-Tandon does not speak favourably of his work
       I

           %
                                                              a
                                                                                                                      ||,
which have not seen myself.
The Lumbrici, which received large share of Savigny's at
tention, and of which he has described upwards of twenty
                 he considers them), before confounded under the
                 of terrestris, have been since much attended
L.species

general
            (as
       name

to by L^on-Dufour, Duges, and Morren. Leon-Dufour's ob
servations, contained in two memoirs in the Ann. des Scien.
for 1825 and 1828, chiefly respect the mode of reproduction,
which he asserts to be oviparous, and not viviparous as sup
posed by Montegre** and SirEverard Home ft. He has disco
vered the capsules at the depth of five or six feet in the earth,
and found them analogous to those of the genus Hirudo.
M. Duges the author of an elaborate memoir in the Ann. des
       p. is
t·   vol. xxv. 273.                        \\      tom. iv. p. 184.
                                                t
      Monographic de la Famille des Hirudin fes, par Alfred Moquin-Tandon.
Paris, 1827. 4to.

|| §fEssai d'une Monographic de la Famille des Himdinfes. Paris, 1827. 8vo.
     Histoire Naturelle el Medicaie des Sangsues. Paris, 1825. Svo.
     The characters of these species will be found in Cuvier's Analyse des Tra-
vaux for 1821.
   ·· Mem. du Mus., tom.  i.  p. 242.      Phil. Trans. 1823,        p.  143.
                                 REPORT ON ZOOLOGY.                           191

Scien. for 1828*, which has principally for its object the
anatomy of Cuvier's entire group of Annelides Abranches. So
far as respects the Hirudinidce, he has added little to what
may be found in Moquin-Tandon's work on this subject ; but he
has thrown much valuable light on the structure and physiology
of Cuvier's first family. His researches, which relate to the
organs of circulation, respiration, and reproduction, have been
made on two species of Nais and six of Lumbricus, which he
commences by characterizing. The latter he does not appear to
be able to identify in all cases with those of Savigny. Like
Le'on-Dufour, he considers these animals as oviparous, and
thinks that what                             took for
intestinal worms.                Montegre              living  young were only
                                   Morren's   work f,  which   was crowned by

the University of Ghent, was published in 1829, and is of the
most elaborate nature. Taken in connexion with the researches

of the French naturalists, it leaves scarcely anything to be de
sired as far as regards the anatomy and physiology of the Lum-
brici. Its author seems in doubt, however, about the numerous

species described by Savigny and others. He is more inclined
to regard them as simple varieties. He in some measure recon
ciles the conflicting testimonies of Montegre and Leon-Dufour
with respect to the mode of reproduction, by asserting it to be

both oviparous and ovoviviparous.

   The structure of the genus Nais has been also investigated
by Dr. Gruithuisen. He has published two memoirs on the
anatomy of certain species belonging to this group in the Nova
Acta S)C. Nat. Cur. %.
   Before quitting this class, it may be remarked that the true
situation of the genus Dentalium, placed by Cuvier amongst

his Annelides tubicoles, is undetermined. M. Deshayes, who
has made it the subject of a monograph published in the Mem.
de la Soc. d' His/. Nat. de Paris§, and who has entered into much

detail with respect to its anatomy, seems to regard it as belong
ing to the Molluscous type. Further researches are, however,
nec2e. ssCarruystainceoar.d--er                this opinion  as correct.
                                 to establish    these few   years Latreille  and

                                 Until within
Dr. Leach were almost the only naturalists who had studied the
animals of this class collectively with any degree of care or
minuteness of detail. The latter gentleman is well known to
have devoted a great deal of his attention to their arrangement
and natural affinities. His treatises in this department, consisting

· torn. xv. p. 284.
+ De Lumbrici Terrestru Historia Naturali ncc non Anatomia Tractatus.

Bruxell. 1829. 4to.
J torn. xi. p. 235, and torn. xiv. p. 397.
                                                               } torn. ii. p. 321.
192 FOURTH REPORT -- 1834.

of the article Crustaceology in the Edinh. Encyclop., a pa
per in the Linn. Trans. *, and the Malacostraca Podophthalma
Britannia, this last giving descriptions and coloured represen
tations of a large portion of the British species, have been already
alluded to in a former part of this Report. These works were
all published before the first edition of the Regne Animal of Cu-
vier. Nevertheless it          well to                 sketch of Dr.
Leach's arrangement,   may be  though   give a slight
                       which,           founded upon    Latreille's t,

is somewhat different from that proposed subsequently by this
last author.
In the Lbmeean Transactions, above referred to, Dr. Leach

distributes the Crustacea primarily into the two large groups or
subclasses of Malacostraca and Entomostraca. The Malaco

straca are then divided into two other groups, or legions as they
are called, bearing the names of Podophthalma and Edrioph-
thalma, according as the eyes are either pedunculated or sessile.
The Podophthalma include the two orders Brachyura and
Macroura, comprising, the former thirty-three, and the latter
twenty-two genera. The Edriophthalma are not divided into
orders, but merely distributed into thirty-eight genera, which
are grouped according to the form of the body, and other cha
racters derived from the antennae and feet. In this division are
several new and curious genera, entirely unknown till Dr. Leach
first made them public. The Entomostraca had received so
little attention when Dr. Leach published his system, that he
did not attempt to arrange them according to their true affini
ties, but merely gave an artificial distribution of the genera, to
serve till such time as we were made better acquainted with
their structure.

The arrangement of Latreille in the third volume of the first
edition of the Regne Animal %
to, from that adopted formerly  is different, as already alluded

                                by this author. In this work
the Crustacea are divided into five orders : Decapodes, Stoma-

podes, Amphipodes, Isopodes, and Branchipodes ; the charac
ters of which are taken from the situation and form of the

branchiae, the mode of articulation of the head with the trunk,
and the organs of manducation. The Decapoda are divided into
the two families of Brachyures and Macroures, answering to
Dr. Leach's two orders bearing the same names. The Stoma-
poda include one family, formed out of the Fabrician genus

  I* vol. xi. p. 306.

   t allude to the system given by Latreille in his Genera Crustaceorum et

Insectorum. 4 vols. 8vo. Paris, 1806.
   X Latreille undertook all that portion of the above work which treats of the

Annulose Animals with Articulated Feet, comprising the classes Crustacea,
Arachnida, and Insecta.
                          REPORT ON ZOOLOGY.  15)3

Squilla. The Amphipoda consist principally of such Crustacea
as were referred by Fabricius to his genus Gammarus. The
Isopoda answer to the Onisci of Linnaeus. The Amphipoda
and Isopoda together constitute Dr. Leach's second legion,
Edriophthalma. Latreille's fifth order, Branchiopoda, includes
the Entomostraca of Miiller and Leach, referred by Linnaeus
to his genus Motioculas *.

   Since the appearance of the Regne Animal, other naturalists
have occupied themselves with this class. Latreille has also
modified his own arrangement in some subsequent publications,
availing himself of many valuable researches on the part of differ
ent individuals, relating more particularly to the Entomostraca.

   In the Families Natitrelles, published in 1825, we find the
Crustacea divided primarily into the two sections of Maxillosa
and Edentata. The former comprises, in addition to the old
orders Decapoda, Stomapoda, Amphipoda, and Isopoda, three
new orders,-- one, Lcemodipoda, for the reception of the Isopodes
Cystibranches of the Regne Animal, placed between the Stoma
poda and Amphipoda ; the other two, Lophyropoda and Phyllo-
poda, taken out of the old order Branchiopoda, and terminatingthe
first division. The second section contains the remainder of the
Branchiopoda arranged under the two new orders Xyphosura
and Siphonostoma. Thus we have the Entomostraca, which
before constituted but one order, here forming four. Latreille
in his last work, Cours d' Entomologie, has increased the orders
still further. He has adopted three other new ones, called Dicla-
dopa, Ostrapoda, and Trilobita. The first of these, inserted
between the Isopoda and Lophyropoda, includes the genera
Nebalia, Pontia, Condylura, and Cuma. The second, insti
tuted by Straus, comprises the genera Cypris and Cytherea, and
is placed between the Lophyropoda and Phyllopoda. The third,
adopted for the fossil Trilobites, forms the last order in his first
division of Maxillosa. In other respects his system is the same
as that in the Families Naturelles.

   The same year as that in which the Fam. Nat. of Latreille ap
peared, Desmarest published his Considerations Ge'nerales sur
la Classe des Crustace's. In this work, which is one of consider
able merit as well as utility t, we have the systems of Latreille
and Leach in some measure combined. Thus, the Malacostraca

   * The above arrangement by Latreille was adopted, with some slight modi
fications, by Lamarck in the 5th vol. of his Hist. Nat. des An. sans Vert.

   t M. Desmarest was the first to draw the attention of naturalists to the dif
ferent regions marked out on the upper surface of the carapace in the Decapoda
Brachyura, and to show their exact accordance with the internal organs which

they respectively cover.

1834.                     o
 194 HOIRTH REPORT 1834.

 and Entomostraca of this last author are retained as primary
 divisions, and the former is still divided into the two secondary
 groups of Podophthalma and Edriophthalma ; but the groups

next in succession are the same as Latreille's orders. At the

 same time there is a slight modification of these orders among
 the Entomostraca.

     Risso, who has paid considerable attention to the Crustacea,

adopts, in his Hist. Nat. de I' Eur. Merid., published in 1826*,

 nearly the same arrangement as that of Desmarest.
    The most important, as well as most recent, additions which

have been made to our knowledge of the Crustacea are due to

the researches of MM. Audouin and Edwards, who have for some

 years back, the latter gentleman more especially, given particular
 attention to this class of animals. Indeed it is impossible to
speak too highly of their labours in this department. Bearing
 in mind the close connexion which subsists between zoology
properly so called, and comparative anatomy and physiology,
they have commenced by studying closely the internal as well as
external organization of the Crustacea, before proceeding to in
vestigate their natural affinities. The results of their researches
on this branch of the subject are contained in a series of me
moirs published in the Annaies des Sciences, of which any length
ened analysis here would lead too much into anatomical details.

It may be just stated, that in their first two memoirs, published

in 1827f, they have treated of the circulation of the blood, con
cerning the true course of which there prevailed before much
difference of opinion. They have determined with accuracy the

exact method in which the circulation is effected, and found it

to be in some respects analogous to that which is known to pre
vail in the molluscous animals}:. In a third memoir, published
in 1828§, they have entered into considerable details with respect

    · The Crustacea are contained in the fifth volume. Risso had published
some years previously a work entitled, Histoire Naturelle des Crustacea des
Environs de Nice, 8vo, Paris, 1816.

   f Ann. des Scien., tom. xi.
  J Two memoirs on the circulation of the Crustacea have been also published
in Germany by M. Lund, the one prior, the other subsequent, to those of Au

douin and Edwards. In the first (/sis, 1825,) the author observes that he has
never been able to discover the slightest trace of veins in the Crustacea, which
he thinks are without them, and in consequence deprived of a complete circu
lation. In the second (Isis, 1829,) he confines himself to some remarks on the
researches of Audouin and Edwards, who have arrived at such different results
from himself. He allows that they have discovered a system analogous to the
venous system of the Vertebrata and Mollusca, but does not agree with them as
to a near affinity between the Crustacea and Mollusca in regard to their circula
tory organs.

    § Ann., tom. xiv. p. 77.
         REPORT OX ZOOLOGY.                                                     195

to the nervous system. Their particular object is to show that
in the Crustacea this system exhibits a unity of composition, and
that all the different modifications which it presents in different

families may be easily referred to one type, these modifications
depending simply on a greater or less approximation, and ten

dency towards centralization of the medullary ganglions. In a
fourth memoir, read the same year to the Royal Academy of Sci
ences*, they have considered the respiratory organs of these ani
mals, their researches on which head have led them to discover the
true method of respiration in those Crustacea which are capable
of living for a considerable time out of water. They have as
certained that it is not by any organ analogous to lungs, as was
formerly supposed, but by the help of a peculiar structure, ena
bling them to retain the water within the respiratory cavity as in
a reservoir, from whence is supplied the necessary moisture for
a free exercise of the branchial laminae. In a subsequent me
moir on this subjectf, published in 1830, M. Edwards has ex
pressed an opinion that the respiratory apparatus will be found
to afford some valuable characters for the determination of natural

groups.
The above memoirs on the anatomy of the Crustacea, with
the exception of the last, were undertaken by MM. Audouin
and Edwards jointly. During the present year (1834), M. Ed
wards has published singly the first volume of a general work %
on the natural history of this class, in which he has embodied
the researches just alluded to, as well as treated of the classifica
tion and systematic description of these animals. The following
is a sketch of his arrangement. He divides the Crustacea pri
marily into the three subclasses of Crustaces Maxillts, Crust.
Suceursi and Crust. Xyphosuriens. The first of these groups
commences with the legion Podophthalmiens, including the two
orders Decapodes and Stomapodes ; then follows the legion
Edriophthalmes, comprising the three orders Amphipodes, Iso-
podes, and Lcemipodes 5 next in succession are the legions
Branchiopodes and Entomostraces, which he thinks form two
parallel series, the former containing the two orders of Phyllo-
podes and Cladoceres^ the latter those of Ostrapodes and Cope-
podes, this last being nearly the same as the order Dicladopes
of Latreille. The legion Trilobites is placed provisionally at
the end of the first subclass. The second subclass is divided
         V* tv ,niS. . ti ·»*. *.
<.jv\.V

· A report by Cuvier and Dumeril on this memoir will be found in the Ann.
det Set. Nat., torn. xv. p. 85.
t Ann. do Sci., torn. xix. p. 451.
X Iliitoire Naturelle des Crustaces, comprenant l'Anatomic, la Physiologic, ct
la Classification de cet Animaux,  par Milne Edwards, tom,       Paris, 183 4.
                                                            i.,
                                       02
196 FOURTH REPORT -- 1834.

into the two legions of Parasites Marcheurs and Parasites
Nageurs, the former comprising the single order Araneiformes,
the latter the two orders Siphonostomes and Lerneens. The

third subclass consists of the single order Xyphosures. It will
be seen that Edwards has adopted a large number of Latreille's
principal groups. At the same time he has introduced some
changes in the arrangement of this author. He has augmented
the number of orders, and likewise altered the limits of some of
these divisions. Two of the additional orders are for the recep
tion of the Pycnogonida and Lerneeee, which Latreille does not

include in the present class. In the descriptive portion of his
work, M. Edwards has as yet proceeded but a little way. In
fact he has only got through the first two families of the Deca-

poda Brachyura. A few years back, however, he published a
monograph on the Crustacea Amphipoda, to which those may
be referred who want information on that particular order. An
extract from it will be found in the Ann. des Scien. for 1830*.

    Some researches on the Crustacea by a naturalist of this
country, of great importance, though leading to results which it
Iwould be well to have confirmed by other observers, may be
noticed in this place.            allude to Mr. Thompson's supposed
discovery of a metamorphosis in the animals of this class, an
nounced in 1828, in the first number of his Zoological Re-

searchesf. It is stated by this gentleman, that having examined

the newly hatched young of the common Crab ( Cancer Pagurus),
he found them presenting exactly the appearance of the Zoea
Taurus, the Monoculus Taurus of Slabber, which animal he
conceives to be the first state of the species above mentioned.
From this circumstance he was led to conclude, that metamor

phosis was general throughout the Decapod Crustacea ; that in
the first stage of their existence they are essentially natatory,
but that after a time the greater number of them lose the power
of swimming, acquire chelae, and have their feet adapted for
crawling only. In a communication made by letter to the Zoo

logical Society in 1830 J, Mr. Thompson stated, in support of
the universality of this metamorphosis, that he had ascertained
the newly hatched animal to be a Zoea in eight genera of the
Decupoda Brachyura, viz. Cancer, Carcinus, Portunus, Eryphia,

    * torn. xx.
    t Zoological Researches, and
or                                IllBuystrJa.tiVo.nsTh;oomrpNsaotnu. raClorHki,st1o8r2y8o, f&Nc.o--ndOesfcrtihpits
    imperfectly known Animals.
work only five numbers have as yet appeared. In it will be found some other
valuable memoirs relating to the Crustacea besides that above alluded to, more

particularly one on the genus Mysis, and another on the Shizopoda.
   X Proceed, of Zool. Soc, p. 17.
                     REPORT ON /OOLOGY.                                 197

Gecardnus, Thelphusa ?, Pinnotheres, and Inachus ; and in
seven genera of the Macroura, viz. Pagurus, Porcellana, Ga-
lathea, Crangon, Palamon, Honiarus, and Astacus.
No direct observations have been as yet made by other natu
ralists sufficient to establish the existence of any error in these
results at which Mr. Thompson has arrived. There is, how
ever, enough on record to prove that this metamorphosis is not
universal ; and some excellent observers have been led by their
own inquiries to regard it as rather improbable altogether.
The researches of Rathke are decidedly opposed to it. This
profound anatomist is the author of an elaborate treatise on the
development of the young Cray-fish*, which he has traced
through all its stages from its earliest existence ; and so far from
observing any metamorphosis in this species, he particularly
states that the young at birth scarcely differ externally from the
adult except in size. M. Edwards has made some remarks upon
Mr. Thompson's theory, which he does not consider as tenable,
without the support of further and more accurate observation.
At the same time he thinks it very possible that none of the in
dividuals of the genus Zoea hitherto observed by naturalists had
reached their adult statef . We are informed by Latreillet, that
this gentleman  had  it in  view to institute some particular           re I
searches under  the  hope   of throwing light on this matter.

am not aware that any decisive results have been hitherto made
public. The subject, however, is undergoing investigation in
our own country, and will probably before long be satisfactorily
cleared up.
The above doubts respecting the metamorphosis of the Crus
tacea relate only to its existence amongst the Decapoda. That
it takes place in some of the other orders in this class is quite
certain. Jurine long since detected it in the case of some of the
Entomostraca. More recently M. Edwards has observed strik
ing changes of form, almost, if not quite amounting to meta
morphosis, taking place in several genera of the Crustacea Iso-
poda, in one genus (Cyamus,          of the Lamodipoda, and in
one genus (Phronima, Latr.)  Latr.)  Amphipoda%. At the same
                             of the

time he has fully ascertained, that in other genera, more parti
cularly Gammarus and Idotea, this kind of metamorphosis does

* See an analysis of this memoir in the Ann. ties Sci. Nat. for 1830, torn. xx.

p. 442.                                                                 lorn. i.
                                                                        will be
   t Ann. des Set., torn. xix. p. 459. See also Hist. Nat. des Crust.,

Jp. 199 ; and Diet. Class. dHist. Nat., Art. Zoe.
       Cours a"Entomol., p. 385.
    § These researches are contained in a memoir, of which an analysis
found in the Ann. des Scien. for Dec. 1833, p. 360.
1S8 FOURTH REPORT 1834.

not occur. The genus in which the change of form is most con

spicuous appears to be that of Cymothoa. In this instance he
hwahsichobasererveddevethloepeydouinngthetoadbuelt,n--otthounsly,   deficient in some
                                                                   having six instead             parts
                                                                                                 of se

fvoeunrtetheonrafceiect,s--egbmuet nptso,sseasnsdedcoonfseoqthueernstlyweollndlyevtewloeplveed,  instead  of
                                                                                                  which   in

the adult state are merely rudimentary. Thus, the adult has the

head extremely small, and the eyes scarcely perceptible exter
nally. The young, on the contrary, have the head large, and the

eyes remarkably conspicuous. A similar difference occurs in
the segments of the abdomen, which in the adult are very short
and almost linear, whereas in the young they spread out almost
as much as those of the thorax*.

Naturalists who have studied this class have too frequently
confined their researches to the Malacostraca. The JEntomo-

straca, although everywhere to be met with, like some other
equally neglected groups, have received, at least of late years,

but comparatively little attention. In this country they have
been scarcely noticed at all. The works of Miillerf and JurineJ

still retain their value as the great storehouses of original ob

servations relating to these animals, and are indispensable to
those who may feel induced to study them. The latter, which
is of recent date compared with Muller's, deserves especially to
be pointed out, as, though well known and duly appreciated on
the Continent, it does not appear to be familiar to our own na

turalists. It embraces the history of Miiller's genera Cyclops,
Daphnia, Polyphemus, Lynceus, and Cypris, including descrip
tions of such species as are found in the neighbourhood of
Geneva. Jurine has paid the most scrupulous attention to the
habits and ceconomy of these minute animals. Many of them he
has traced through every stage of their existence ; and, amongst
other valuable researches, has ascertained that the genera Amy-
mone and Nanplius of the Danish naturalist are only young
states of the genus Cyclops. This work is illustrated with beau
tifully coloured figures of all the species. There is also ap
pended to it a detailed and valuable memoir by Benedict Prt vost

* M. Edwards has sought to refer to some general principles these and other
                                       gerenleartainligzattoionch:anTgheatof"fothrme
similar  facts which  he has observed                                                 in the Crustacea.
He has    arrived at   the following                                                  different changes

of form which the Malacostraca (or higher Crustacea) may experience after
quitting the egg, tend always, whatever be their nature or importance, to alienate
the animal from the type common to the greater number of these beings, and in
some measure to individuate it more and more." See Ann. des Scien., 1. c.

t Entomoslraca, seu Insecta Testacea, S,-c. 4to, Lips, et Haun. 1785.
X Histoire des Monocles qui se trouvent aux Environs de Geneve. 4to, Geneve,

1820.
                             REPORT ON ZOOLOGY.                                                                 199

on the Branchipus of Latreille, or, as the author here calls
                                             a

                                                                                           it,
tCohpIifraortcotiectpuhhleaarlaugbseo*nv. eerawobryksdifwfeereandt dindfivewidusaelpsa, r--atethamteomfotihrse  devoted
                                                                                                                younger
Jurine on Argulus foliaceus published in 1806f, Straus's two
memoirs on the genus Daphni a published in 1819 and 1820J,
a third the year following by the same author on the genus Ci/-
ppruibsl§is,headndinB1ro8n2g0|n|,ia--rtw'se  memoir on the Limnadia Hermanni
                                             shall have enumerated by far the most
valuable contributions which have been yet made to our know
ledge of this portion of the Crustacea^. Straus's memoirs in
particular, which for patient research and close anatomical in
vestigation, considering the minuteness of these animals, can
scarcely be equalled, deserve the highest commendation. It was
principally in consequence of the labours of this observer and
those of Jurine, which were subsequent to the appearance of
the first edition of the liegne Animal, that Latreille was led to
make such striking alterations in the arrangement of the Ento-
mostraca in his Families Naturelles. These alterations have

been already pointed out and they clearly show what we may
yet expect from further researches into the structure of other
groups which have not hitherto received so close an examination.
The only recent contributions of any moment, at present known
to me, are, memoir by Dr. Gruithuisen on the Anatomy of
Daphnia Sima published in 1828**, second by Milne Edwards
on the structure of the mouth in the Siphonostomous Eutomo-
              a

                                              ;

                                                      a
                                                             a

                                                             is
straca published in 1833ff, and third published within these
few months by Mr. Thompson on the Artemis salinus\\. The
principal object of M. Edwards's essay to show that notwith
standing the apparent differences between the mouth of the
Siphonostoma and that of the rest of the Crustacea, the parts
are strictly analogous in the two cases, and there still kept up
a unity of composition. Thompson's memoir contains observa
tions on the gradual development of the young of the Artemis                   is
saltans, and the metamorphoses which undergoes before arriv
                                                                                   p.
ing at an adult state. These metamorphoses are found to cor                            by
                                               p. p.
* This memoir had been previously published in the Journal de Physique for
1803, torn. lvii.                            Ann. du Mus., torn. vii. p. 431.|| p. it
      Mhn. du Mus., torn. v.
      Id., torn. vii. 33.
If § X        p.                             380, and torn. vi.   149.

   A                       p. f                                  Id., torn. vi.          83.

        treatise on the Monoculi was published at Halle, in 1805,                                               Ramd'hor,

who, according to Latreille, has anticipated Straus and Jurine in some of their
                                               the work myself.
ftanatomical  researches.     have not seen        368.
   ** Nov.                   Cur., torn. xiv.
              Act. §c. Nat.I

                                   5,
    Ann. des Scien. Nat., torn, xxviii. 87.

XX  Zoot. Researches, No. Mem. 0.
200 FOURTH REPORT 1834.

respond with those noticed in Branchipus, Apus, and other
genera of the Phyllopoda, to which the Artemis is allied. Mr.
Thompson has endeavoured to prove that there is a close affinity
             the Artemis salinus and the fossil  Eyeless Trilobites.
betIwmeeany  also refer to a paper by Audouin    and Edwards in the

Annates des Scien. for 1826*, containing an account of a very
singularly organized animal, forming
among the Siphonostoma of Latreille.  a new       genus (Nicothoe)
                                                 of parasitic habits,
                                       It is

and was discovered firmly attached to the gills of the Lobster.
Perhaps there is no group in the Entomostraca in which we
may expect so many new forms yet to occur, and of whose
ceconomy in general we know so little, as that just mentioned.
With reference to this last point we may, however, except the
genus Argulus, Jurine's memoir before spoken of leaving us
scarcely anything further to be desired in the history of that

animal.           --This  class,  which Lamarck  was  the         first to

   3. Arachnida.

separate from that of Insects, has until very recently been much
neglected by naturalists. The consequence is that our know
ledge of many of the groups contained in it is extremely imper
fect. Even its limits are far from being determined ; and some
are of opinion that it ought to be resolved into two classes, on
account of the great differences which occur in the respiratory
organs. Dr. Leach was the first to entertain this last idea, in
the third volume of                                                            in
1817- In an article  his Zoological  "MOisncetlhlaenCyh, arpauctbelirsshoefd  the
                     in this workf
Arachnides," he has restricted this class to the five families

of ScorpionidcE, Tarantulidce, Phalangidee, SolpugidtE, and
Aratieidcc, in all of which respiration is effected by means of
pulmonary sacs. The Trachean Arachnida of Latreille, except

ing the genera Pycnogonum, Phoxichilus, Ammothea, and
Nymphum, (whose situation he considers doubtful,) and the
genera Phalangium, Soljmga, and Trogu.lus, (and perhaps Siro,)
he thinks constitute a peculiar class, which he proposes to name
Acari.

   Although Latreille himself subsequently adopted this same
opinion respecting the propriety of forming two classes of the
Pulmonary and Trachean Arachnida\, he has not acted upon it in
any of his published works. In the Begne Animal these groups
simply stand as two orders, the first including the two families
of Fileuses (Aranea, Linn.) and P4dipalpes {Tarantula, Fab.,
and Scorpio, Linn.), the second those of Faux Scorpions, Pyc-

* torn. ix. p. 315.                                     f p. 46.
% Fam. Nat., p. 317, note (').
                                Court d'Eniom., p. 161.
                                 REPORT ON ZOOi,OGW                                           20l

nogonides, and Holetra (Phalangium and Acarus, Linn.). In
the Families Naturelles his arrangement is nearly the same.
There is simply a change with respect to the order in which the
families stand, with the addition of some new ones amongst the
Trachean Arachnida. But in the Cours d' Entomologie we find a
third order, termed Aporobranches, occupying a middle station
between the other two. This new group, which is characterized
by having gills without any external opening, Latreille intends

should include the Pycnogonida. It has been already mentioned
that these anomalous animals, which seem to form the passage
from the Arachnida to the Crustacea, are considered by Ed
wards as belonging to the class last mentioned.

   It may be stated that Mr. Kirby appears likewise to be of
opinion that the Pulmonary and Trachean Arachnida should
not be included in the same class*.
maMinrt.aiMnascL"eathyathatsh,e
                                 however,                    expressed himself  differently.  He
                                  division                   of the organs of   respiration   and

circulation is not to be depended'                           on in the   classical  arrangement
of the Annulosaf ."
This last opinion, which will probably in the end be generally
assented to, has been adopted by Duges in a valuable memoir on
the Acari, published during the present year};. In the intro
duction to this memoir Duges has made some observations on
the relation which subsists between the Acari and the rest of

the Arachnida. He remarks that there is nothing in the external
structure of these animals at all corresponding to those differ
ences in the respiratory and circulatory organs which some au
thors have made the basis of their arrangement. He thinks that
the value of the characters derived from these organs has been
overrated; and in proof of this, that it is only necessary to
observe the striking changes which such organs undergo (in the
case of the Batrachian Reptiles and aquatic insects) in the same
individual at different stages of its life.
    Instead, then, of making the external form subordinate to the

organs of respiration and circulation, M. Duges adopts the for
mer as the groundwork upon which he establishes his principal
divisions. The following are what he considers as the true di
stinguishing characters of the class Arachnida : lstly, the pre
sence of eight feet adapted for walking ; 2ndly, the absence of
antennae§ and reticulated eyes ; 3rdly, the constant union of one

*      "InRtrcocdh.ertcohEens tsoumr.l,'Ovrodl.rciiid. eps.   21.                    t Hor. Ent., p. 382.
                                                             Acariens,"  Ann. des Scien. Nat. for Jan. 1834,
X

p. 5.
§ Lamarck had observed, and formerly Latreille also, how strikingly the true
Arachnida were distinguished from the two classes of Crustacea and Insects by
202 FOURTH REPORT 1834.

or more segments of the thorax with the head. The class thus
characterized, which, according to a new nomenclature of his
own*, he calls Aranistes, he divides into the two subclasses of

Acarulistes and Aranulistes ; the former containing the single
order Acariens; the latter the three orders of Phalangiens,
Araneeiis, and Scorpioniens. Each of these orders is again
divided into several families.

   The rest of Duges's memoir is restricted to the investigation
of the Acari, and contains some novel and highly important re
searches on this group of animals. These relate more espe
cially to the gradual development of the young, and the meta
morphoses which many of them undergo before arriving at the
adult state. M. Duges has satisfactorily ascertained that many
of the hexapod genera constituting Latreille's family of Micro-
phthira are only the larvae of others, and he has sufficiently
multiplied his observations to lead him to suspect that this will
be found ultimately to be the case with all of them ; that is to
say, that there will be found no instance of any of the Arachnida
having only six feet in the adult state. He has proved Leptus
to be only the young of Trombidium, and he has strong reasons
for supposing Oci/pete and Astoma to be so likewise. The genus

Achlysia of Audouinf he has shown to be the larva of Hy-
drachna : the genus Caris he suspects to be the larva of Argas.

Although these striking researches necessarily lead to the sup
pression of many genera instituted by former naturalists, Duges
has discovered or established others more than sufficient to make
compensation. In his arrangement of these animals we still
                          distributed            under seven families,
find twenty-four genera,  the number             adopted by Latreille.                                               the
former exceeding by five
                                                                                                                      It
is his intention to treat of each of these genera separately. As

yet, however, his valuable memoir remains unfinished.
   But few individuals besides Duges have hitherto devoted much
of their attention to the Acari. In 1826, Heyden published a
systematic arrangement of this groupj, in which he increased

the want of antennae. Latreille, however, was led subsequently to take a dif
ferent view of the subject, and to regard what are usually called the mandibles
or cheliform palpi in the Arachnida as representing the intermediate pair of an
tenna; in the Crustacea Decapoda, only in the former class exercising a different
function and being always adapted for manducation. Thus the deficient parts he
considered to be the true mandibles, and not the antenna?. Sec /Vim. Nat., p. 307.
See also some remarks on this hypothesis of Latreille, by MacLeay {Hor. Ent.,
                 likewise by Duges c, p. 9.).
                 and some other instances Duges
p.Jf383,)   and
                                                                    "(/.this
                                                                          by· Inhas            very   unnecessarily  changed
                                                                                        i.
                                                                                             p.
names which had long been consecrated  time, and adopted generally.
    Mem. de la Soc. d'llist. Nat. de Paris, torn.
    his, 1826, p. 608.                                                                           98.
          REPORT ON ZOOLOGY.                                                                                                       203

the number of genera to sixty-nine, but in the opinion of Duges

many of these rest on doubtful if not erroneous characters.
Leon-Dufour, Audouin, and De Th&s have all contributed me
moirs to the Ann. ties Sci. Nat. on particular genera*. Accord
ing to Latreille this last gentleman             engaged in new work
          it
                it

                      it j-,

                              a
                                                                is

                                                                              a
                                                                                                  a

                                                                                                  is
on these animals, to be illustrated by plates.
   The most important group among the Pulmonary Arachnida
is that of the Araneidee. Nevertheless, like all the others in this

class,    has been greatly neglected. Walckenaer, Latreille,
and Leon-Dufour in France, De Hahn in Germany, and Mr.

Blackwall in our own country, are almost the only individuals
who have given any attention of late years. Walckenaer, who
has studied most deeply, and whose Tableau des AranHdes,
published in 1805, has been hitherto the only guide for naturalists
in this department, has recently proposed new arrangement of
these animals in memoir read to the Entomological Society
of France]:. The principal groundwork of his system
                                                                                                                                   the

same as in his Tableau, and he still adopts the two large divisions
of Thiraphoses and Araignees, founded upon the position of the
jaws with respect to the rest of the body, and the articulation of
the mandibles. The number and position of the eyes serve
afterwards for characterizing some well-marked groups subordi
nate to these two large tribes. Walckenaer observes that the
species of Spiders have been greatly overmultiplied, from suf
ficient regard not having been paid to the changes incident to
different ages with respect to size and colour. Leon-Dufour
has more particularly occupied himself with the structure and
internal anatomy of the Araneidce. He the author of some
important memoirs§ on this part of the subject, in one of which
he has instituted new division of this group into the two sec
Jt

                                a

                                           it a
                                                             ta

                                                                       is

                                                                                                                               |j
                                                                                                                         i.
tions of Tetrapneumones and Dipneumones, founded on the
number of pulmonary sacs, which he was the first to discover
are double on each side of the abdomen in certain species, amount

ing to four in all. The Tetrapneumones, which comprise the
Theraphoses of Walckenaer, as well as small portion of his
Araignees, form the subject of memoir in the Nouv. Ann. du
Mus^\ by Latreille, who speaks  highly of this new principle of
arrangement. He thinks that        will serve as an immutable

·  Ann. des Set., torn, xxv., xxvi., and xxvii.       Cours d'Entom.,                                                            p. 546.
   An extract from this memoir will be found                                                                                       No. 18.
                                                 in  L'Institute, 1833,
M. Walckenaer has also lately commenced the publication of a work entitled,
Les Araneides de France classces par leur Organisation, fyc. (L'Instit. 1834,
No. 53.)
   Ann. des Scien. Physiques de Bruxelles, torn. v. and vi.  torn. p. 61.
204 FOURTH REPORT 1834.

foundation for a natural distribution of the genera in this exten
sive family. Latreille has adopted it in the second edition of the
Regne Animal, as he had previously done in his Families Natu-

relles. It must be observed, however, that Walckenaer does not
attach so much importance to this modification of the respira
tory organs. He states that it is not accompanied by any cor
responding differences in other parts of the structure, and that,
taken as the basis of a division, it leads to the separation of cer
tain genera which, according to his views, are connected by the
closest affinity. Besides the above memoirs on the structure of
the Aranecc, L^on-Dufour has published several others descrip
tive of new or ill-understood species*. He has particularly
attended to the species found in Spain, as well as to the species
of Phalangium met with in the same countryf. He has dis
covered a new method of preserving the Arane<B%, which it is
                          fresh labourers to enter upon this field.
to  be  hoped may induce  the difficulty which has been hitherto
        greatly owing to
It  is

experienced in preventing the changes which occur after death
in these animals, that they have been so much neglected by
naturalists.

    De Hahn is the author of a work now in course of publication,
the object of which is to illustrate by coloured plates the genera
and principal species of this family§. Mr. Blackwall has pub
lished some important memoirs on subjects connected with the
structure and ceconomy of the Araneid(e\\, as well as others de
scriptive of some undescribed genera and species^f.
    Before leaving this class it may be mentioned that in the third
volume of the Zoological Miscellany**, Dr. Leach has published
an article on the characters of the genera of the family Scorpi-

onidce, accompanied by descriptions and coloured representations
of all the British species of Chelifer and Obisium. Some ad
ditions to these genera by The'iB will be found in the Ann. des
Sci. for 1832-f-f.
   4. Myriapoda.    --There  can       be  no  doubt  that a certain                                                                   affinity

exists between this class and the Annelida, as Latreille was the
first to point out in a memoir on the articulated animals pub
lished in 1820JJ. The Myriapoda have not been much attended
to. In the third volume of the Zoolog. Miscell. is a valuable
paper by Dr. Leach on these animals, in which he has given the

    · Ann. des Sci. Phys., torn. iv. Ann. des Sci. Nat., tomes ii. and torn. xxii.
    t Ann. des Sci. Nat., torn. xxii.                 J Id.
    § Die Arachniden gelreu nac/i der Natur abgehildet und beschrieben, von
C.  ·UW* .Lpa.Hn4ad8h,.na, n1d83K-1|dt,in&tboc.r.nP, hxixl.viMi. apg. .:a>n7.dJo|| uLri*nn*n.,M. t1mT8r3.a.3n,dsu.v,oMlv.uolsisi.i.,.  xv. andxvi.
                                                                                                                                       torn. vi. p.
                                                                                                                                                     116.
                       REPORT ON ZOOLOGY.                                     205

characters of the genera which it comprises, as well as descrip
tions of all the British species*. He divides the class into the
two orders of Chilognatha and Syngnatha, the former answering
to the Linnsean genus lulus, the latter to that of Scolopendra.
This arrangement is adopted by Latreille. Savi has made a

particular study of the Iuli. In two memoirs, one published in
1817, the other in 1819f , he has recorded some valuable observa
tions   relating to     the oeconomy of certain species of this family.
        not aware      of any recent contributions to our knowledge of
I am
this class excepting a paper by Le'on-Dufour on the internal
structure of the JLithobius forficatus and the Scutigera lineata.
This    memoir    --is pItubislisimhepdosisnibltehe^towdwo.  des Sci. Nat. for 1824.
    5.  Insecta.                                             more than to treat of this

class in the most general manner. Indeed from its great extent,
the immense additions which have been made to it of late years,
and the large number of individuals who have contributed to its
           it          well deserve to be made the subject of a separate
progress,        may   simply state, lstly, the leading groups which
report.    I    shall

have been adopted or proposed in this class ; 2ndly, the most
important works and memoirs which have appeared in illustra
tion of its structure ; 3rdly, the principal authors who have con
tributed to the advancement of particular parts of it. As the
chain of affinities connecting the several orders is far from being
determined with certainty, and much difference of opinion exists
Ion this subject, to discuss which would lead to considerable

details, shall be silent on this point altogether.
   (1.) In the first edition of the Regne Animal the following orders
are adopted by Latreille, exclusively of the Myriapoda, which
he afterwards acknowledged as a distinct class. 1. Thysanura,

Latr.J; 2. Parasita, Latr.J ; 3. Suctoria, DeGeer; 4. Coleo-
ptera,\Axm.; 5 .Orthoptera, Oliv .; 6. Hemiptera, Linn. ; 7- Neu-
ropt era, Linn.; 8. Hymenoptera, Linn.; 9. Lepidoptera, Linn.;
10. Rhipiptera, Latr. (Strepsiptera, Kirb.); W.Diptera, Linn.
In the same year (1817), Dr. Leach published his amended
arrangement of the orders of the class Insecta in the third volume
of his Zool. Miscellany. In this work we have a primary di
vision into the two subclasses of Ametabolia and Metabolia.
The former includes the Thysanura and Parasita of Latreille,
the name of this last order being changed to Anoplura : the
latter, Latreille's remaining orders, with the five additional or
ders of Dermaptera, De Geer, (gen. Forficula, Linn.) ; Dictyo-

· Dr. Leach has described several new species of lulus from the South of
Europe in the
                Transactions of the Plymouth    Institution,  1830, p.  158.
   t See Bull,  des Sci. Nat., 1823, torn. iv.  p. 330.

% These two orders were established by Latreille in some of his earlier works.
206 FOURTH REPORT -- 1834.

ptera, (gen. Blatta, Linn.) ; Omoptera, (gen. Cicada, Thrips,
Aphis, &c, Linn.) ; Trichoptera, Kirb. (gen. Phryganea, Linn.) ;
and Omaloptera, (gen. Hippobosca, Linn.) ; amounting in all
to sixteen. Latreille's name of Suctoria is changed to that of
Aptera.
Mr.MacLeay in his HorceEntom. (1821) has proposed Bom-
boptera, Megaloptera, and Rhaphioptera as three new oscu
lant orders in his class Mandibulata, including the genera Sirex,
Linn., Sialis, Latr., and Boreus, Latr., respectively. The first he
considers as connecting the Hymenoptera and Trichoptera;
the second, this last and Neuroptera ; the third, this last and

Orthoptera. He regards Dermaptera and Strepsiptera like
wise as osculant orders, the former connecting Orthoptera and
Coleoptera, the latter this last and Hymenoptera.
Blainville* divides the Insects (forming with him his class
Hexapoda) into three subclasses, Tetraptera, Diptera, and
Aptera. The first of these contains as subordinate groups the
orders Coleoptera, Orthoptera, Hemiptera, Lepidoptera, Neu

roptera, and Hymenoptera.
   In 1823, Dumeril published his Considerations Generates sur
la Classe des Insectes. His work, however, which is of an ele

mentary nature, offers nothing new on the subject of classifica
tion. His orders, eight in number, are the same as those of
Linnaeus, with the addition of Orthoptera. M. Duroeril advo
                                                                     a
cates very strongly the dichotomous, or, as he terms                             the ana
                                                                            it,
lytical method of arrangement, which he had adopted in his
former works.
   In the Fam. Nat. (1825) Latreille adopts as primary divi
sion of this class the two sections of Aptera and Alata. The
former comprises the orders Thysanura, Parasita, and Siphon-
aptera (name substituted for that of Suctoria) the latter, the
remaining orders of the Regne Animal.                                ;

   In 1826 appeared the fourth volume of the Introduction to En

tomology, in which Mr. Kirby proposes to adopt twelve orders.
Seven of these are the same as those of Linnaeus the remaining
                                                                     ;

five are Strepsiptera, Dermaptera, Orthoptera, Trichoptera,

and Aphaniptera (Siphonaptera, Latr.).
   In the second edition of the Regne Animal, Latreille's arrange

ment the same as in the first. But in his last work, the Cours
is

                                        ·
iV Entomologie (1831), he has again taken that of the Families
Naturelles, excepting that he has adopted one additional order,
the Dermaptera of Leach.
    (2.) Our knowledge of the structure of Insects, both external
and internal, has been greatly advanced of late years by the re-

                                           Principet, SfC, tab.  7.
                                REPORT ON ZOOLOGY.                     207

searches of many excellent observers. Some of the most im
portant contributions on the subject of their external anatomy
have arisen out of an endeavour to trace analogies of structure
in the relative conformation of different groups in this class, as
well as in that of insects in general compared with the rest of
the Annulosa. Savigny was the first to draw the attention of
naturalists to inquiries of this nature in two memoirs on the
structure of the mouth of the articulated animals, published in
1816*. In one he demonstrated that the same parts were to be
found, though modified, in this organ as it occurs both in the
Mandibulata and Haustellata, notwithstanding the apparent
dissimilarity of its structure in these two groups. In the other
he extended his researches, with the view of establishing similar
analogies, to the mouth of the Arachnida, Crustacea, and En~
tomostraca. The year 1820 was rich in memoirs of a similar
nature to those just alluded to. Latreille first published one on
the structure of the wings of Insectsf, in which he sought to re
fer to some general law of conformation the organs of locomo
tion in this class, as well as in those of Arachnida and Crustacea.
Latreille's memoir was followed by three from Geoffroy on the

Organization of Insects, already referred to in a former part of

this Report as containing the first enunciation of his views re
specting the vertebrate structure of Insects and Crustacea%.
The same year two memoirs were brought forwards by Audouin
on the same subject. The object of one was to point out ana
logies of structure between the true Insects and the Crustacea
and Arachnida, more particularly as regards the head and its
appendages, and the relative development of the segments of
the trunk§. That of the other was to generalize an extensive
series of observations with respect to the various parts which
enter into the composition of the thorax in the different orders
of Insects||. Latreille also published two other memoirs besides

   * " Theorie des Organes de la Bouche des Crustac6s et des Insectes," Mim.
sur les An. sans Vert., Part I.
t De la Formation des Ailes des Insectes. 8vo.
I Journ. Comp. du Diet, des Sci. Mid., tomes v. and vi.                It was in conse-
        of Geoffroy 's first raemoiron this subject, read to the Academy of Science*
Juaenn.c3e, 1820, that Latreille was induced to write his memoir (before alluded to)
entitled Passage des Animaux Invcrlebres aux Fcrt&bres, which memoir of

Latreille was published, together with his former one, De la Formation des Ailes

des Insectes, as an 8vo pamphlet.
        I am ignorant as             this memoir was published,
     §  published at all.  to where  it only from Cuvier's Report      or whether it was
ever                                                                   in the Analyse des
                            I know

Travaux.

|| This memoir was subsequently published in the Ann. des Sci. Nat. for 1824,
                                A short            of it had appeared
torn.   i. pp.  97 and 416.              analysis                      previously in the
        de la                   1820.
Bull,           Soc. Phil, for
^08 FOURTH REPORT -- 1834.

that already alluded to ; one on the supposed elytra of the Stre-
psiptera, and on the appendices of the trunk of Insects in gene
ral* ; the other on the general relations of the external structure

of the articulated Invertebrate, t 1 In 1821 Latreille published
a memoir containing further observations on the external struc
ture of the Annulosa, principally with a view to fix the nomen
clature of the principal parts %. The same year appeared the
first of a series of elaborate memoirs by Chabrier on the organs
of flight in insects, with a detailed account of all the parts con
tributing to the motion and articulation of the  wMinr.gsM§a.cLIenay182o5n
an important memoir was brought forward by
the structure of the tarsus in the Tetramerous and Trimerous
Coleoptera of the French entomologists||. Its object was to
show the defects of an arrangement founded on this part, and to
prove that such arrangement must necessarily lead to the viola
tion of natural affinities. In 1826 appeared an elaborate dis
sertation on the external anatomy of Insects in the third volume
of the Introduction to Entomology by Kirby and Spence. In this
work there is given a collected view of the researches of previous
naturalists on this subject ; at the same time there are some
mInattehreialBuadlld, itdieosnsScmi.adNeatto.  what had been already done
bcuylaHteadananonimtahles^o.rgIatnswaosf        for 1828, is an abstract of  by others.
                                                                             a memoir

                                               manducation and motion in the arti
                                               during that year that Straus-Durck-
heim published his great work on the Comparative Anatomy of
the Articulated Animals **. This last is perhaps the most im
portant and elaborate treatise of its kind that has hitherto ap

peared. It is the first of a series of monographs which the au
thor intends publishing on the structure of the different orders

of insects. It contains some general remarks on the organiza
tion of the Annulosa, after which the author proceeds to the
investigation of that of the Coleoptera in particular, the Melo-
lontha vulgaris being taken as the type. In the first part of his
subject, Straus-Durckheim has endeavoured to refer the different

modifications of structure which the organs undergo in passing
through different groups of articulated animals, to general laws.
In 1830 Straus-Durckheim read to the Royal Academy of Sciences
at Paris a portion of another work, treating in like manner of the
structure of the Hymenopterous Insects, the common Hornet

J· Mem. du Mas., tom. vii. p. 1.                  f Id., tom. vi. p. 116.
                                               f§ Id., tomes vi., vii., and viii.
   Id., tom. viii. p. 169.
|| Linn. Trans., vol. xv. p. 63.                              tom. xiii. p. 443.
·· Considtralions generaies stir I' Anatomic Comparte des Animaux Articults,
mixquelles on a joint l' Anatomic descriptive du Melolontha vulgaris (Hanneton),
donnee comme exemple de ('Organisation des Coleoptera. Paris, 1828, 4to.
                             REPORT ON ZOOLOGY.                                        209

(fespa Crabro, Linn.) being selected as the type. I am not

aware that this second monograph has been yet published*.
During the same year an elaborate memoir appeared in this

country by Mr. MacLeay on the structure of the thorax in winged
insects, in which he has not only given the result of his own
inquiries, but reviewed the previous labours of Audouin and
Kirby on this subject, especially the nomenclature of the dif
ferent parts of the thorax as assigned by these authors respec-

tivelyf. Iu the Anna les des Scien. for 1832J, is a memoir by
Duges on the structure of the genus Pulex, with the particular
view of discovering its true affinities. This genus constituting in
itself an entire order of insects, the memoir is of considerable im

portance. In the Entomological Magazine^, Mr.Westwood has

also made some remarks on these insects more particularly relating
to the structure of their antennae. In the A'ouv. Ami. du Mus.

for the same year||, Latreille has published a valuable memoir
on the external structure and affinities of the Thysanura, which
his researches lead him to think form the transition from the

Myriapoda to the true Insects. They are the only insects in
which Latreille has not been able to discover stigmata; the ab
sence of which he                               one of the
ters of this order^f.        reLgaarsdtsly,asI   may refer  distinguishing      charac
                                                            to some papers
                                                                                by Mr.
Newman on the external anatomy of Insects in general, recently
published in the Entomol. Mag.** Latreille has also treated of
theItwwhoouleldsubbejeocutt  in his Cours d' Entomologieff.
                             othf ipslaRceeptoortd. weIll  much on the       internal
tomy of insects in                                         shall do little  more than  ana
                                                                                        ob
serve that it is principally to the researches of Marcel de Serres,
Leon-Dufour, Duges, and Straus-Durckheim in France, and to
those of Herold, Gaede, Carus|J, Suckow, Meckel, and Miiller

· An analysis of it will be found in the Bull, des Sci. Nat. for 1830, (torn.
xxii. p. 347,) also in Cuvier's Analyse des Travaux for the same year.
t Zool.Journ., vol. v. p. 145.                              X torn- xxvii. p. 145.
§ vol. i. p. 359.                                           || torn. i. p. 161.
% The Thysanura have been sadly neglected by entomologists.                      Latreille

observes that with respect to the Poduree there has appeared nothing new since
Ithe time of De Geer.                                       ·* vols. i. and iL
tt may state in this place that two general introductory works on entomo
logy have appeared recently which I have not seen, both entering into details
on the subject of the organization of insects. One of these is the Handbuck
Ider Entomologie, publishe d by Burmeister at Berlin in 1832. The other is the
Introduction a  'Entomologie    by Lacordaire, of which     the  first volume has      only
just appeared.                  No. 73, p. 324.
                See L'Instit.,
Xt Carus has the particular merit of having discovered the circulation of the
blood in Insects. This remarkable fact, which was observed in the larva? of

certain Neuroptera, was first announced at the meeting of German naturalists
held at Dresden in 1826.

1834.                                           p
210 FOURTH REPORT 1834.

in Germany, that we are indebted for the recent progress which

has been made in this department. Mr. Newport in our own
country has also lately entered upon this subject*. There can

be no doubt that our knowledge of the natural affinities of In
sects will be ultimately much benefited by the laborious investi
gations of such observers, although there may not have been
acquired hitherto a sufficient number of facts to warrant any
extensive generalizations. Those of Leon-Dufour may be more
particularly alluded to as throwing some light on this subject.
This patient anatomist, in one of a series of the most elaborate
memoirs on the internal structure of the Coleopteraf, observes

that by dissecting insects he has been enabled to determine the
value of many purely entomological characters, to clear up doubts
with respect to the distinction of the sexes in certain cases,
and to add to the number of those characteristic marks which
had already been acquired from a study of the mouth, antennae,
and feet, and employed as the foundation of families and genera.
His researches have satisfied him that the system of Latreille is
for the most part in perfect harmony with anatomical facts.
    (3.) Since the science  of entomology has become so extensively
cultivated, and the field   which it embraces been found to be so

extremely large}:, naturalists have given up all attempt at a com
plete Species Insectorum. They have even in many cases found
it impracticable to obtain a correct knowledge of any particular

order, regard being paid to all the included species. Hence they
have generally confined their researches to the more subordinate
groups, or to the insects of particular countries : and it is to such
works that we must have recourse, in order to learn the present
state of our knowledge    of the different orders           which are com
prised in this class.                                       indeed it is not
                        It is not my intention,
practicable on the present occasion, to do more than indicate in
a general manner a few of the most valuable of such works which
                  of late years.
have  appeared   Count De Jean    that we are indebted      for the  most
      is to the
  It
extensive work which has been published on the order of Coleo-
ptera§, although it has not extended as yet beyond the Cicinde-
lida: and Carabida. In a separate publication he has undertaken ,
conjointly with M. Boisduval, the illustration of such species as
are found in Europe
                            Several important monographs have,
                      ||.
· Phil. Trant, 1832.                        Ann. des Set. Nat. 1824, &c.
                                    f

p. t  Messrs. Kirby and Spence have estimated the probable number of existing
species of Insects at not less than 400,000. See Introd. to Entom., vol. iv.
   477. See alsosome remarks on this subject by Mr. Westwood in Loudon's
Magazine Natural History, vol. vi. p. 116.
      of

|| \  Species gmbral des Coleopteres. 8vo, Par., 1825, &c.
      Iconoff. el Hist. Not. des Coleop., 1827, &c.
                                      REPORT ON ZOOLOQV.                                             211

however, appeared upon particular families, some of which are
now in course of publication. Thus, Zimmermann has made a
study of the Carabidce *; Erichson of the Dyticidce\ ; Gory and
Percheron of the Cetonice and some allied general . Schon-
herr has published two valuable works on the Curculionidce ;
one§ giving a general view of the subordinate groups in this
extensive family; the other which has been only recently
commenced, entering into the details of species. Lastly, may
refer to an important monograph on the Staphylinidee by Count
                                      a
                                                     ||,

                                                       a

                                                                        I
Mannerheim^T.
   The Orthoptera have been made the subject of particular

works by Zetterstedt** and Audinet Servilleft- Toussaint de
Charpentier has also published monograph on the European
species of this order in his Horce Entomologies.

    Hahn has undertaken an illustrated work on the HemipteraX%.
Schummel ha6 written monograph on the particular genera
Hydrometra, Velia, and Gerris, constituting Latreille's family

JPloteres§§.
   The Lepidoptera, at least the European species, have been

particularly treated of by Treitschke, Godart, and Duponchel.
The first has continued the valuable and well-known work of

Ochsenheimer||||. Godart the author of work on the Lepi
doptera of France, which was commenced in 1822, but inter
                                      I %X is
                                               %.
                                                                a
                                                                        a
rupted in 1825 by his death. Duponchel has carried on from
                                                                               it

that time^f^y. Boisduval has published valuable monograph on
the Zygcetiidce*** He has also commenced two other works on
this order, one serving to illustrate the Lepidoptera of Northi.
Americafttj the other the caterpillars and metamorphosis of the
species found in Europe;                In the former he assisted by
                 a                                                         is
                             §
· Monographic tier Carabiden. Berlin and Halle, 1831. See Entomolog.Mag,,
                                   .work to which am indebted for the only knowledge have of
vol. p. 306
% || t t                                                                              1

   i.some of these monographs.
        Genera Dyticeorum. Berlin, 1832. (See Ent. Mag., vol.
                                                                           i.         501.)
        Monog. des CHoines, el Genres voisins, fyc, 1833. (See Ent. Mag., vol. p.
                                                                                                           i.
                                                                                     V
p. 418.                             Curculionidum Dispositio methodica, fyc. Lips., 1826.
        Genera et Species Curculionidum, fyc, 1833, &c.
        Precis d'un nouvel Arrangement de la Famille des Brachtlytres, de Ordre des
InsecUs Coleopteres. St.Petersb. 1830.  ·· Orthoptera Suecia. Lund., 1821.
tt Revue Methodique des Jnsectes de Ordre des Orlhopleres. (See Ent.
Mag., vol. p. 304.)                     §§ F
   XX Die Wanzenartigen Insecten, fyc, Niirnberg, 1831, &c. (See Ent. Mag.,
vol. p. 308.)                                 See Ent. Mag., vol.
Illl                                                                           i.         307.
                                                                                    1 p.
 i.     Die Schmetterlinge Europ., mil Fortseixung von F. Treitschke. 825, &c.

%% Godart and Duponchel, Hist. Nat. des Lepidopteres, ou Papillons de
France. 8vo, Par., 1822, &c.
··· Essai sur une Monographie des Zygcnides. Par., 1829, 8vo.
f+t Hist. Ghtfr. et Iconograph. de tous les Lepidop. et Chenilles de I'Amef,
                                        XXX See Ent. Mag., vol.
Septentrionale. 8vo.                  P                                                              11Q.
                                         2

                                                                                            ii.
                                                                                                 p.
212 FOURTH REPORT 1834.

Ldconte, in the latter by Rambur and Graslin. Dr. Horsfield
has thrown much light upon the arrangement and affinities of
these insects in his Lepidoptera Javanica, already alluded to in
a former part of this Report.
The Neuroptera have been particularly attended to by Tous-
saint Charpentier and Vander Linden, who have each published
a monograph on the European Lihellulce : that of the former
is contained in his Horce Entomologicce. The Phryganeae
a(Tbrleichwooprtkerrae,cenKtliyrb.p)ubfolirsmhetdhebysuMbj.ecPtictoeftanof
                                                                            elaborate and  valu
                                                                             Geneva*.

   The       Ioanmly  recent works devoted to the Hymenoptera, with
which                 acquainted, are those of Lepelletier de St. Fargeau,

Gravenhorst, and Nees ab Esenbeck. The first has published a
monograph on the Tenthredinideef. The second has treated at
great length of the European species of Ichneumonid&X. The
third has written upon the more aberrant groups of the family
just mentioned§.
    The Diptera have received great attention of late years from
several excellent entomologists. Fallen's Diptera Suecice is
rather anterior to the period of time we are considering. Wiede
mann's Diptera Exotica Meigen's Diptera of Europe^, and
                               ||,

                                                         I
Macquart's Diptera of the North of France**, are of more re
cent date, and have greatly contributed, the last two especially,
to advance our knowledge of this order of insects.
                                                                            may also
allude to most elaborate work by Robineau-Desvoidy, which
though treating only of the Fabrician genus Musca, containsof
descriptions of nearly 1800 species, referred to nearly 600
genera. This astonishing production, which entitled Essaia
                               I

                                                             is
sur les Myodaires, occupies the entire second volume of the
Mem. des Savans E'trang., published in 1830.
   Besides the above works, may mention Stephens's Illustra
tions British Entomology, now in course of publication in
our own country, as one which promises great additions to all
the orders. The Coleoptera and Lepidoptera have already
appeared. Curtis's British Entomology
                                                    d                       confined to the
                                                       V                    a
                                                                  3
                                                                                           il
lustration of the genera of British Insects, but as work in theis

   · Recherches pour servir VHistoire et Analomie des Phryganides. 4to,
Geneve, 1834. (For an analysis of this work, see L'lratit., No. 73.)
             Monographia Tenthredinetarum Synonymia ex/ricata. Par., 1823, 8vo.i. d
If || § J t  Ir.hneumonologia Europaa. Vratislav., 1829, vols. 8vo.6
           Hymenopterorum Ichneumonibus affinium, Monographia, Genera Europaa
tt Species iliustrantes. vol.
                               Stuttgart, et Tubing, 1834.
             Aussereuropaische Zweiflugelige Insecten. Hamm, 1828--1830,
                                                                            2  vols. 8vo.

         Systematise he  1B81e8sc--/ire18ib3u0n, g  der behannten  Europaischen Zwei/hgeligen
Insecten. Aaclien,                                  vols. 8vo.
·· Published in the Recueildes Travauxde la Societe" d'Amat. des Sciences, $c,
de Lille. 1826--1829.
                        REPORT OX ZOOLOGY.                213

illustrative department, is unrivalled in the beauty and accuracy

of its delineations. It is also extremely valuable from the num
ber of dissections which it contains.

   There are also many other valuable monographs, not published
separately like those already alluded to, to be found in Germar's
Magazin tier Entomologie, Guerin's Magasin de Zoologie,
Silbermann's Re'vue Entomologique, in the Entomological Ma
gazine, and in the Annales de la Soc. Entomologique de France.
   In concluding my                   this department of
I                       remarks on    a powerful impulse  zoology,
   may observe that it  has received                      from the

recent establishment of two Entomological Societies, one in
France, and the other in our own country. This last was only
instituted in 1833*.

                     III. MOLLUSCA, CuV.
   It is undoubtedly to the researches of Poli, Cuvier, Lamarck,
F^russac, and Blainville that we are to attribute the great advance
which has been made of late years in our knowledge of the ani
mals belonging to this type. Poli's work, consisting of two
volumes, on the anatomy of the Bivalve and Multivalve Testacea,
is well known. In 1826, a third volume was published by
Chiage, in which the anatomy of the Univalves was commenced
upon the same plan as that adopted in the two former volumes.
Cuvier's Memoirs on the Mollusca, most of which had been pre
viously inserted in the Annates du Museum, were in 1816 col
lected by himself into one volume and published separately.
They contributed greatly to our better knowledge of the natural
affinities of these animals, and furnished the basis of the system

developed the year following in the Hegne Animal. In this
last work the Mollusca are divided into six classesf , Cephalo
poda, Pteropoda, Gasteropoda, Acephala, Brachiopoda, and
Cirrhopoda, the characters being derived from the general form,
between which and the internal structure Cuvier observes there

is a pretty constant relation. The Cephalopoda are simply
divided into genera according to the nature of the shell. The
Pteropoda, a class instituted by himself in 1804 for the recep
tion of the genera Clio, Pneumoderma, and Hyale, are divided
into two sections, founded on the presence or absence of a di
stinct head. TheGasteropoda are distributed under seven orders,
characterized according to the position and form of the respira
tory organs. The Acephala comprise the two orders of Testa
ceous and Naked Acephala. The Brachiopoda include the genera

    * Since this Report was read, the Entomological Society of London has pub
lished the first part of a volume of Transactions, containing several interesting
and important communications on this branch of Zoology.

  t Three of these classes, Cephalopoda, Gasteropoda, and Acephala, had been

established by Cuvier in his Tabl. E'lcm. de V Hint. Nat. in 1798.
214 FOURTH REPORT 1834.

Lingula, Terebratula, and Orbicula, which hatlpreviously formed
a part of the class last mentioned. The Cirrhopoda comprise
the two genera Anatifa and Balanus, which Cuvier considers
as in some respects intermediate to the Molluscous and Articu
lated Animals.

The benefits conferred upon this department of zoology by
Lamarck belong to a period of time somewhat anterior to the
publication of the Ilegne Animal. We may, however, make a
few remarks on the system adopted in the fifth and two suc
                  of the second edition  of the Animaux sans
ceeding volumes   appeared in the years  1818 -- 1822. Perhaps
Vertebres, which
it is in the details of the science, the grouping of genera, and the
characterizing an immense number of new species, that Lamarck's
tact and penetration appear most conspicuous. His leading di
visions present several peculiarities which are scarcely warranted
by the organization of these animals. Thus, he has separated
altogether from the Mollusca the Naked Acephala, and made
of them a distinct class under the name of Tuniciers, which he

refers to quite another place in his system, below the Articulated
Animals which intervene. Again, the rest of Cuvier's Mollusca
he divides into only three classes, which we are naturally led to
infer he considers therefore as groups of equal value. The first is
that of Cirripedes. The second, or Conchiferes, answers to the

Testaceous Acephala of Cuvier, including also the Brachiopoda.
The third, to which Lamarck restricts the name of Mollusques,
comprises all the remaining classes of the llkgne Animal. The
ground of primary subdivision in Lamarck's second class is more
entitled to our regard  than that on which his
established, although   not particularly noticed  hbiyghCeurvigerro.upsItaries
the number of the muscles of attachment and the impressions
caused by them on the shell, points to which Lamarck was the
first to call the attention of naturalists in a memoir in the Ann.

du Mtts. for 1807. These give rise to the two orders of Dimy-
aires and Monomyaires. The secondary groups in this class
are founded on the form and structure of the shell, the situation

of the ligament, and the form of the foot of the animal; the
families resulting from these principles of arrangement being on
the whole natural, though not in all cases distinguished by cha
racters of the same importance. The third class, Mollusques,
is divided into five orders, one of which answers to the class
Pteropoda of Cuvier, and another to the Cephalopoda of the
same author : the remaining three are formed out of Cuvier's

class Gasteropoda, and bear the names of Gaste'rojiodes, Tra-
che"lipodes, and He'te'ropodes respectively. In this part of his
system Lamarck has not only altered the value of some of
Cuvier's groups, but adopted peculiar views with regard to their
                    REPORT ON ZOOLOGY.                                215

relative degrees of organization. Thus, he considers the Hete-
ropoda,' comprising the genera Carinaria, Firola, &c., as de
serving to be placed at the head of all the Mollusca, and as
forming the transition to the Fish, an opinion which few will
be inclined to adopt besides himself.

   In 1819 appeared the first numbers of that splendid work
which M. de Ferussac has devoted to the Land and Freshwater
Mollusca, a work which for beauty as well as accuracy of illus

tration has perhaps never been surpassed. It is principally,
indeed, to this department of the subject that De Fdrussac's
labours have been directed, and no one has done more towards

elucidating the history of that immense assemblage of species
which belong to the Linnfean genus Helix. In order, however,
to point out the relation between the land and freshwater genera
and the rest of the Mollusca, he has added a general arrange
ment of all the Molluscous animals, which though nearly the
same as that of Cuvier, presents nevertheless two or three slight

modifications. Thus, before arriving at the classes, we have a
primary division into two sections, grounded on the presence or
absence of the head. The first section, or that of Cephalous
Mollusca, includes the first three classes of Cuvier. The se

cond, or Acephalous section, comprises the classes Cirripeda,
Brachiopoda, Lamellihranchia (name taken from Blainville),
and Tunicata, this last being admitted as a group of a higher
denomination than that assigned to it by Cuvier. There is also
a slight difference in the subordinate divisions. Thus, the Cepha
lopoda are divided into the two orders of Decapoda and Octo-

poda*.     Amongst the Gasteropoda, we find    a new order   esta
blished  for the reception of the Operculated  Pulmonifera.
                                                                It

may be stated that Ferussac's work, which for some time was
interrupted, has been recently recommenced, and it is much to
be desired that it may yet be completed according to the original
plan.
   In 1820,                            Germany a Manual     Iofhathvee
Inarticulate  Schweigger published in  In this work, which
              Invertebrate Animalsf.
not seen, the arrangement of the Mollusca is said to be on the
whole similar to that of the llegne Animal.
In 1821, Mr. Gray published in the London Medical Repo-
sitoryX a new systematic arrangement of the Mollusca, founded

upon the internal organization. In this system, one of the

principal features is an entirely new nomenclature for the pri
mary divisions, which constitute seven classes, in other respects

* These groups are adopted from Dr. Leacli. See his " Synopsis of the Orders,
Families, and Genera of the Class Cephalopoda," in his Zool Miscvll., vol. iii.
              f Handbuch der Naturgeschichte, S;c. 8vo, Leips. 1820.
p. 137.
I vol. xv. p. 229.
216 FOURTH REPORT -- 1834.

nearly the same as those of former authors. The Cirripeda,
however, are not included. The groups subordinate to the classes
are established principally upon the organs of respiration. The
arrangement of the families and genera of the Gasteropoda is
grounded upon the form of the opercle, which leads in many
cases to very natural relations. Mr. Gray has the merit of
having studied this part more profoundly than any of his pre

decessors.

   In 1824, M. Latreille published in the Ann. des Set. Nat.*
a sketch of a new arrangement of the Mollusca, which was more
developed the following year in the Families Naturelles. In this
last work, the primary division of these animals (from which the
Naked Acephala and Cirripeda are entirely excluded,) is into
Phanerogama and Agama, the former including all those in
which copulation is necessary in order to reproduction, the latter
such as impregnate themselves. The Phanerogama are further
divided into two large sections, the characters of which are de
rived from the organs of motion. The first of these, which is
termed Pterygia, includes two classes, the Cephalopoda and
Pterojmda of Cuvier. The second, Apterygia, includes the
class Gasteropoda of the same author. In this last class, be

fore arriving at the orders, which are characterized from the
organs of respiration, there is a subdivision according as the
sexes are separate, or united in the same individual. In the se
cond great division, or that of Agamous Mollusca, we likewise
find two sections, grounded upon the presence or absence of an
apparent head. The first, Exocephala, comprises a new class,
called Peltocochlides, established for the reception of the Gaste-
rop. Scutibranchia and Cyclobranchia of Cuvier. The second,
Endocephala, includes the Brachiopoda and Testaceous Ace
phala of Cuvier, Lamarck's name of Conchifera being adopted
for the class last mentioned.
In 1825 appeared the Malacologies of Blainville, who had
aPlhreyasdiqyuecoanntrdibButueldl,                                            the Journ.
                                    many   vSaoluca.blPe himl,emonoirsthisto              de
                                    de la                                     department
                                                                                          of

zoology. No one, after Poli and Cuvier, has done so much as
Blainville in illustration of the anatomy of the Mollusca. At
the same time his arrangement, which differs in several respects
from all preceding ones, can
to that of the llegne Animal.              hardly be considered as preferable

                                             It has also the disadvantage, like
all the rest of his system, of being attended by a peculiar nomen
clature, embracing many names for the primary groups entirely

· torn. iii. p. 317.
t Manuel de Malacoloqie el de Conchyliologie. 8vo, Paris, 1825. The greater
part  of this work had  previously                   in the Diet, des Sci. Nat. under the
Art.  Mollusques.                          appeared
                      REPORT ON ZOOLOGY.                            217

different from those generally adopted. Blainville's primary
subdivision of his type Malacozoaires is into three classes, esta

blished upon the characters of the head. In the first class, Ci-
phalophores, which answers to the Cephalopoda of Cuvier, the

head is well distinguished from the body. In the second, Para-
cephalophores, it is less strongly marked. In the third, Ac6-
phalophores, it can be no longer observed. The Paracfyhalo-
phores include the Gasteropoda and Pteropoda of Cuvier, though
arranged upon a very different plan, the characters of the sub
ordinate groups being derived in the first instance from the re

productive organs, and afterwards from the respiratory or
gans. Thus we have the three subclasses of Paraceph. Dioiques,

P. Monoiques, and P. Hermaphrodites, each of which is divided
into two or more orders, according to the structure of the bran
chiae. The third class, Acfyhalophores, is divided immediately
into four orders, which are likewise characterized from the re

spiratory organs. The first of these orders, Palliobranches,
answers to the Brachiopoda of Cuvier ; the second, Rudistes,
comprises the Lamarckian family of bivalve Mollusca bearing
the same name ; the third, Lamellibranches, includes the great
bulk of Cuvier's Testaceous Acephala ; and the fourth, Het&ro-
branches, his Naked Acephala. Blainville does not include
either the Cirripeda or the Chitoiies amongst his true Malaco
zoaires, but regards them as forming a subtype, Malentozoaires,
leading directly off to the Articulate Animals. In this group
they constitute the two orders of Ne^matojmdes and PolyplaxU

phores respectively.                                     with which
    The latest systematic work in this                  Mollusques *
I  am acquainted, is the excellent little   department

                                           Manuel des
by M. Rang, published in 1829. This gentleman is also the
author of a valuable monograph on the genus Aplysiaf, as well
as of some other important memoirs relating to the Mollusca.

His arrangement of these animals is nearly the same as that of
the Regne Animal. At the same time there are some alterations
with respect to the primary divisions. Thus, he sinks the class
Brachiopoda , regarding that group as only an order among the
Acephala, in which last class he admits as another additional
order the Rudistes of Blainville. He has also adopted some
new orders in the class Gasteropoda. Some of his families and
other subordinate divisions he has borrowed from Lamarck and

Ferussac. This work contains many new and original observa
tions.

   The arrangement of the Mollusca in the second edition of the

   · Manuel de I'Histoire Naturelle des Mollusques et de leurs Coquilles, fyc
Paris, 1829.  f Histoire Naturelle des 4plyties. Paris, 1829, fol.
213 FOURTH REPORT-- 1834.

Regne Animal, also published in the year 1829, does not differ
materially from that in the first. There are simply two additional
orders in the class Gasteropoda ; one, named Tubulihranches,
including the genera Vermetus, Magilus, and Siliquaria ; the
other, that of He'te'ropodes, adopted from Lamarck.

    From a review of the above systems, which have been briefly
sketched out in the preceding pages, it would seem that even the
primary groups in this branch of the animal kingdom are not

all determined with certainty. At the same time it is probable

that whatever alterations may be suggested by further researches,
they will not greatly interfere with those established by Cuvier,
and adopted with more or less modification by the generality of
naturalists. What we most want is a more exact determination
of their relative values. The Cirripeda, however, probably do
not belong to the Molluscous type at all, as appears from re
searches to be further alluded to hereafter. There is also great
uncertainty with respect to the exact situation, as well as limits,
of some of Cuvier's smaller groups, such, for instance, as his
 Gasteropoda Ci/clobranchia and Scutibranchia, of which Latreille

makes a distinct class. The genera Capulus, Crepidula, Navi-

cella, and Calyptrcea, which are by most authors referred to the
Scutibranchia, and which Cuvier himself placed in that order in
the first edition of the Regne Animal, in the second hehas referred
to the Pectinibranchia, stating it as his opinion that they come
near the Trochidce. Indeed, in none of the classes has the chain
of affinities been hitherto worked out with any degree of cer
tainty. We still require further anatomical investigations, both
in order to determine with more exactness the actual structure of
many entire families, and to learn the relative importance of those
organs from which naturalists have drawn their principal charac
ters. Where we find the organs of motion, circulation, and re
spiration, as well as the mode of reproduction, all varying to the
degree they do in these animals, it is clear that we must proceed
with great caution in endeavouring to ascertain the respective
degrees in which they are entitled to our confidence.

   Before, however, quitting this division of the subject, it will be
right to notice several important memoirs which have appeared
of late years, connected with the structure and affinities of some
of the above classes in particular.

   1. Cephalopoda. -- All, except Lamarck, allow that this class

stands at the head of the Inarticulate Invertebrata, although it
is not decided to which of the Vertebrate classes it shows most
affinity. Cuvier, who was the first to make us acquainted with
the anatomical details of these animals, and who has particu
larly noticed the striking development of some parts of their
organization, nevertheless does not allow that they conduct to
                     REPORT ON ZOOLOGY.                               219

any other groups placed higher in the system *. Mr. MacLeay
has endeavoured to show that in their general structure they

make the nearest approach to the Chelonian Reptiles f. He
allows, however, that the  hiatus occurring between     i1s8v2e3ryJ,  con
                           in a memoir published in                    has
siderable. M. Latreille,
pointed out several resemblances between them and Fish, and
thinks that they show considerable affinity to the Rays and other
Cartilaginous Fishes. These resemblances refer exclusively to
the external structure of the two classes. More recently the Ce

phalopoda have been much investigated by MM. Laurencet and
Meyraux. In a memoir read to the Royal Academy of Sciences

at Paris in 1830 §, these naturalists attempted to lessen the
gap that was supposed to exist between them and the Vertebrata,
in like manner as Geoffroy had previously done with respect to
the gap between these last and the Annulosa. They would de
monstrate that the plan upon which the Cephalopoda are con
structed does not depart so widely as was imagined from that of
the structure of the Vertebrata ; that the same organs appear
in both groups, though somewhat modified and transposed ; and
that in order to make the structures conformable, we are only
to suppose a vertebrate animal doubled back upon itself, when
the relative position of the several organs in this last will be
essentially the same as in a Cephalopod. Geoffroy, in his report
on this memoir to the French Academy, took occasion to ob
serve how favourable the results at which these anatomists had

arrived were to his peculiar views respecting the unity of com

position in the animal kingdom. Cuvier, who was opposed to
these views, replied to Geoffroy ; and for some time after a sharp
controversy was kept up between these two distinguished natu
ralists on this subject. To state the several memoirs, and verbal
communications to the Royal Academy of Sciences, which
arose on both sides of this question, would lead us too far from
the present subject  We may mention, however, one memoir
|| § t

       a
                                     a

                                          ||.
                                                                   V

                                               I:
                                                            i. t

                                                                                               a

                                                                 I

                                                                                                                       a
by Cuvier, in which he states, with reference to the singular
opinion advanced by Laurencet and Meyraux, the results of
rigid comparison which he actually made between Cephalopod

diand Vertebrate Animal doubled back in the manner they

· Mim. sur les Cephalop., $c, p. 43.             Hor. Ent., p. 254 to 258.
   Mim. de la Soc. d'Hist. Nat. de Paris, torn.
                                                 p. 269.
Quelgues Considerations stir Organisation des Mollusques. am ignorant
as to whether this memoir has been hitherto published.
Geoffroy's memoirs were afterwards collected by himself into one volume,
and published under the following title Principes de Philosophic Zoologique,
discutis en Mars 1830, au sein de VAcad. Roy. des Sciences. Par. 1830, 8vo.
Cuvier also expressed determination to publish his under the title of De la
Variiti de Composition des Animaux.
                                     am not aware, however, that thebe

last ever appeared.
220 FOURTH REPORT 1834.

rect. This memoir, which was published in the Ann, des Sci,
Nat. *, is illustrated by coloured sections of the two animals,
and its author shows that there are still many organs present in
each not found in the other, and that many of those common to
both are not, as was supposed would be the case, in the same
relative situation. In short, he attempts to demonstrate that,
pushed beyond a certain point, the analogy utterly fails. Du
rbinygM.lasMteyyeraarux(1o8n33t)heaseseacnoinmdalms efm, oiinr
                                                                appears to have been read
                                                                which he still retains his

former theory, and, moreover, expresses an opinion that the

Cephalopoda ought to constitute an intermediate class between
the Mollusca and the Vertebrata, their general organization de
parting much from the type of the former division, at the same
time that it approaches that of the latter. This is in accordance

with the opinion formerly advanced by Mr. MacLeay, who in his
Hor. Entom. considered the Cephalopoda as constituting an
osculant group between the two large divisions just mentioned %.
Like Mr. MacLeay, M. Meyraux would seem also to consider
them as showing considerable affinity to the Chelonian Rep
tiles. Perhaps, however, the final elucidation of this point must
wait for the discovery of some intermediate form, which it is

not too much             to hope may yet occur  at              some future  period.
                           memoirs require to   be              pointed out  as valuable
  A few other
contributions to our knowledge of this class, although not con
nected with the subject particularly discussed in those just

alluded to. Foremost amongst these is a memoir by Mr. Owen
on the Pearly Nautilus, published in 1832 §. This very valu
able treatise contains a detailed account of the anatomy of the
animal inhabitant of the above shell, so often sought for since

the time of Rumphius, its original but imperfect describer. The
specimen dissected, which is the only one that has been
discovered in modern times notwithstanding the frequent

occurrence of the shell itself, was taken by Mr. George Bennett
off the New Hebrides in 1829. Mr. Owen has shown that its||,
organization, although exhibiting some differences, more parp.

· torn. xix. p. 241.
       See L'Institut, No. 21, p. 180. Ionly know the memoir from the analysis
Xt

         is
                     is
which there given of it.
       Meckel also stated to                                    making a distinct  division of
the    Cephalopoda, intermediate   have proposed the            and Invertebrata.
                                    to the Vertebrata                                 am un
                                                                                   I

able, however, to refer to the work in which he has advanced this proposal.
       Memoir on the Pearly Nautilus (Nautilus Pompilius, Linn.), with illustra
|| §

   A of

                                a
tions   its external             form and internal structure. Lond.   1832,  4to.
       fragment of                   Cephalopod animal, supposed to  belong   to
                                                                                   the  Nautilus

Pompilius, was brought from the Moluccas by MM. Quoy and Gaimard, and
described in the Ann. des Sci. Nat. (torn. xx.
                                                                470.), but there are great

doubts as to its identity with that species.
                           REPORT ON ZOOLOGY.                                          221

ticularly in the respiratory and circulatory systems, is on the
whole strictly conformable to that of the higher Cephalopoda,
between which and the Gasteropoda it constitutes an osculant
form*. At the conclusion of his memoir Mr. Owen has given
the characters of two orders, Dibranchiata and Tetrabran-
chiata, into which he proposes to divide the Cephalopoda, these
characters being founded on the details of the organization of
the Nautilus Pompilius.

   Dr. Grant has also added considerably to our knowledge of

the structure of this class. In the New Edinb. Phil. Journ.f

he has given the anatomy and external characters of an appa

rently new species of Octopus % from the Frith of Forth. In

the Zool. Trans. § he has also published an account of the genus
Loligopsis of Lamarck, the very existence of which was before
disputed by some naturalists : he has examined its structure,
and found it to constitute a new form in this class, possessing
characters hitherto known only in the Testaceous Cephalopods,
with others common in the naked species. In the same volume ||
is a second paper by this distinguished naturalist on the anatomy
of the Sepiola vulgaris.

   The controversy respecting the animal inhabitant of the Argo
naut is not yet decided, at least not to the entire satisfaction
of all parties. Future observation will, however, probably con
firm the opinion of Poli % and Fe'russac **, that the animal
hitherto alone found in that shell (OcythoS) strictly belongs to it.
The formerauthorexpresses himself decidedly with respect to this
point, asserting that he has traced the gradual development of
the shell from the egg. Mr. Broderip appears still to entertain
doubts on the subject, but the evidence which he has advanced

on the other side of the question is simply negative ft-

* This circumstance seems to point out the impropriety of considering the
Cephalopoda as a distinct division of the animal kingdom, according to the
views of Meckel, Laurencet, and Meyraux.
                                                                         t 1827.
% According to De F£russac, under the names of Octopus vulgaris, Loligo
vulgaris, and Sepia officinalis, several very distinct species of Cephalopoda have
been hitherto confounded.  § 1833, vol. i. p. 21.                        II P- 77.

  U   See Ann.   des Sci.  Nat. (1825), torn. iv.  p. 495.     p.  160.
·J»»   Mint, de  la Soc.   d'Hist. Nat. de Paris,   torn. ii.

   ·ft See Zool.  Journ. vol. iv. p. 57.    Mr.    Gray is also     of   opinion that   the
Ocytho'e is only  parasitic in the shell  of the   Argonauta ;     and                 that
                                                                         I may state,

since this Report was read he has brought forward what he considers as a new
argument in support of this side of the question. This argument is founded on
the size of what Mr. Gray terms the nucleus of the shell, or that original portion
of it which covered the animal within the egg, and which in some specimens of
young shells of Argonauta Argo and A. hians, lately exhibited to the Zoological
Society, he has shown to be many times larger than the largest eggs of the
Ocylhoe found within the Argonaut shells. From this Mr. Gray has inferred
222 FOURTH REPORT -- 1834.

Great additions have been made to our knowledge of the mi
nute Polythalamous Cephalopoda by M.D'Orbigny, whose me
moir on these animals, read to the French Academy of Sciences
in 1825, will be found in the seventh volume of the Ann. des Set.
Nat. He confirms the propriety of assigning them a place in
this class, to which they had been referred previously, more
from analogy than from any positive knowledge of their real cha
racters. He has studied far more closely than any former ob
server the structure and development of the shell in this group,
as well as in many cases the structure of the animal. He has
ascertained that the former is internal, or at least entirely
covered by a membrane, and destitute of a siphon ; and that the
latter is possessed of true arms, or tentacula, analogous to those
of the larger Cephalopoda. He considers these animals as
forming a large and well-marked group in the present class, to
which he assigns the name of Foraminifera. He is acquainted
with upwards of six hundred species, nearly half of which have
been discovered by himself.
   M. D'Orbigny has undertaken an arrangement of these shells,
which has led to a revision of that of the entire class of Cepha
lopoda by himself and De Fe"russac jointly. It                   the intention
of these authors to publish an extensive work                is  on this class,
                                                             *

which D'Orbigny divides into the three orders of Cryptodi-
branchia, Siphonifera, and Foraminifera. In the first, the

shell is either monothalamous, or internal and rudimentary,
never polythalamous : in the second, polythalamous, external,
or partially covered by the animal, which is capable of retiring
either wholly or in part within the chamber above the last sep

tum ; a siphon always continuous from one chamber to another :
in the third, the shell is polythalamous, and always internal ;
the last septum terminal ; no siphon, but only one or more

apertures          Itcamusainyg   a  communication            between the different                   cham
                                 be  observed that           this arrangement by
bers f.                                                                                               D'Or

that it must have been produced by an animal whose eggs are of much greater
magnitude, and that therefore the Ocythoe cannot be the true artificer of the
shell in question. Mr. Gray's communication on this subject, which is not yet
                   will           Iappear in the
pub* lisShinecde,  this  shortly   was read,      Proceedings of the Zoological Society.              this
                          Report                  have seen the first three numbers of

splendid work which have recently appeared under the following title : Mono

graphic des Cephalopodes Cryptodibranches, par MM. De Ferussac et D'Or
bigny. Paris, 1834, fol. The plates are extremely beautiful. The Ceph.
Siphonifera and the C. Foraminifera are to form the subjects of two other
distinct monographs.
+ The same year in which D'Orbigny brought forward his memoir, De Main
published at Leyden an important                                                                      Ammointe-
orum et Goniatiteorum Specimen.                   treatise,  weonrtkit,ledw, hicMhonIohgarvaephnicot  seen, there

                                                  In this

is said to be also a new arrangement of the Cephalopoda, and a similar division
                              REPORT ON ZOOLOGY.                                                     223

bigny has been adopted by Rang in his Manuel des Mollusques
amlree2na.tdPyotfeartlohlupisdoedcdala.tsos--. iDn ethFeerBususallc,
                                                                      has given a systematic     arrange
                                                                                                 *· Rang
                                                                      des Sci. Nat. for 1827
                              it                                                    as well as recorded
                                                 it
                                                               it,
has made several important additions to

many valuable observations respecting genera and species which
were already known. Nevertheless we have still but an imper
        knowledge of     t--hisThgirsoubpe.ing
fect      Gasteropoda.                                                the  typical  and the  most  exten
    3.

sive class among the Mollusca,                                             has received more general
attention than any of the others. Many of the families and ge
nera contained in             have been made the subject of valuable

monographs by different individuals, which, however, would                                       it
lead too much into detail to allude to more particularly. Na
turalists do not appear to be agreed as to the exact value of cha
racters derived from the shell in distinguishing the genera of
this class. M. Deshayes, in a paper in the Ann. des Sci.

Nat. for 1831 has recorded some anatomical details, which
        f,

would seem to have been undertaken with the view of throwing
some light on this matter in the case of the Helices. His ob
ject to discover whether there may not be found some pecu
liarity in the internal structure of the animal sufficient to war£*
rant the adoption of many genera in this family, which hav
ing been established solely upon the characters of the shell, haveis
not hitherto been received by all naturalist*.
                                                                                    am not aware,
however, that he has carried on this investigation beyond the                       1

                                                                                       is
case of Draparnaud's genus Succinea, which the only one
treated of in the above paper.
   The opercle of shells, which, as already stated, has been much

employed by Mr. Gray in his arrangement of the Gasteropoda,
                               with                                    care by Blainville,       who in
has been since  sBtuudlile,d  de la  great                            Philom. for 1825           proposes  a
memoir in the                        Soc.
                                                                                             J,

to adopt characters derived not merely from the presence or ab
sence of this part, but from its form and structure, its position,

and mode of attachment to the animal. In the Ann. des Sci.
for 1829 Duges has also paper on this subject. His prin
        §,
            is

                                                  a
cipal object to trace the analogies between this part and the
upper valve of the Insequivalve Acephala, more particularly as
respects its mode of growth, and the production of the stria? on

of the Testaceous genera into two groups, characterized by the presence or
absence of a siphon.          believe De Haan was the first to make use of this cha
        p.

              I
                       \ is

                                                            p. a"
racter, although D'Orbigny said to have had recourse to without any know
ledge of De Haan's work. See Diet. Class. Hist. Nat., torn. xi. p. 56.              % it
        torn. xii. 345.       torn. xxii.
                                                                           345.           pp. 91 and 108.

        torn, xviii. p. 113.
224 FOURTH REPOHT -- 1834.

its surface. As these striae, however, have been used in some

cases for characterizing the genera of the Pectinibranchiate
Gasteropoda, this memoir is not without its importance to the
systematist. During the last year Mr. Gray has again turned

his attention to this subject. In a paper in the Phil. Trans.

for 1833, he has detailed some observations on the structure of

the part in question, as well as on the structure and ceconomy
of shells in general. He considers that the mere fact of the pre
sence or absence of the opercle is of small importance, but that
in its form and structure it offers some of the most constant

characters for the distinction and arrangement of families and

genera.

   4. Brachiopoda. -- Mr. Owen has recently published* an im
portant memoir on the anatomy of this group, in which he has
offered some remarks with respect to its value and affinities.
He observes that in all essential points of structure these ani
mals closely correspond with the Acephalous Mollusca, al
though inferior to the Lamellibranchia as far as regards their
respiratory and vascular systems. He considers them as hold
ing a middle place between these last and the Tunicata; not,
however, possessing characters of sufficient importance to justify
their being regarded as a distinct class, but forming a separate
group of equal   v--aluWehwetihtherthowsee
   5. Tunicata.                             above  mentioned.  as a class   or
                                            admit  this group
only as an order, it is one which will always possess interest as
affording a natural passage to the Radiata of Cuvier. It is
especially to the researches of the naturalist just mentioned, and
to those of Savigny, that we are indebted for the first accurate
knowledge obtained respecting these animals. While the struc
ture of the simple Tunicata was beautifully illustrated by the

dissections of the former t, the latter had the merit of discover

ing the true organization of those singular compound Ascidice
which until his time had always been confounded with the
zoophytes %. P6ron, Desmarest, and Lesueur have all likewise
contributed to render this group better understood. What re
cent additions have been made to our knowledge of it are

due principally to Mr. MacLeay, MM. Quoy and Gaimard,
MM. Audouin and Edwards, and Dr. Meyen. Mr. MacLeay is

the author of a paper, read to the Linnsean Society in 1 824 §, in
which he has given the anatomical details of some new forms
from the Northern seas, at the same time that he has thrown

· Zool. Trans. 1 834, vol. i. p. 145.
tI  See Ann.  du Mus., torn, iv., and Mem.
    Mhn. tur  let An. tant Vtrtib., Part 2.  du    Mus.,  torn. ii. p. 10.

§ See Linn. Trans., torn. xiv. p. 527.
                            RETORT ON ZOOLOGY.                                 225

out several remarks respecting the arrangement and affinities of
these animals in general. Quoy and Gaimard have communi

cated some new observations relating to the habits and anatomy of
the Salpce which they made during their voyage with Freycinet *.
Audouin and Edwards, who paid great attention to the Compound
Ascidice during their residence on the Chausey Islands, have
fmade some interesting discoveries respecting the mode of de

velopment of these animals . They have ascertained that, al
though in their adult state they are united to form one common
mass, and are immoveably fixed to some rock or other marine
substance, they enjoy at birth a separate individuality, and are,
                            with the                of swimming     freely in
moreover, endued            place.    Itpioswneort  till after two  days that   the
water from place to                                                            this

locomotion ceases. They then seek a place favourable to their
further development ; and while some return to the parent mass
from which they first emanated, others attach themselves afar
off and found new colonies. These observations are of great
value. They not only throw light upon the history of these ani
mals, but serve to establish very important relations between
them and other groups in which similar facts have been noticed,
connected with the early development of the young. Dr. Meyen's
researches are confined to the genus Salpa, which forms the sub
ject of a memoir by him in the Nov. Act. Sfc. Nat. Cur. for

1832 J. He has revised the characters of more than thirty
species.

   6. Cirripeda. --The doubtful situation of this class has been

already alluded to. Indeed there are few groups whose true
affinities have been involved in so much uncertainty. The most
recent observations, however, seem decidedly in favour of the
opinion of those naturalists who regard it as partaking more of
the Annulose than the Molluscous structure, and approaching,
on the whole, nearest to the Branchiopod Crustacea. Straus

was the first to announce this affinity in his memoir on the genus
Daphnia, published in 1819. He was led to observe it from a
comparison of the relative structures of the genera Pentelasmis

(Leach) and Limnadia (Brong.). Two years afterwards, Mr.

MacLeay, apparently without knowledge of Straus's memoir,
pointed out the same relationship §, dwelling, however, more
                            the affinity between Pentelasmis and Daphnia.
pI aarmticunloatrlaywaorne  that anything further was written on this sub
ject till 1830, in which year Mr. Thompson published the third

· Ann. des Sci. Nat. (1825), torn. vi. p. 28. ; and Butt, de la Soc.Philom.

(1826), p. 123.
t See Ann. des Sci. Nat., torn. xv. p. 6.
t torn. xvi. p. 363.                                f Ilor. Ent., p. 308.
1834.                                 q
22(5 FOURTH REPORT 1834.

number of his Zool. Researches, containing some observations
on the Cirripeda which appear to be quite decisive of their close
affinity to the Annulosa in general, and the Branchiopod Crus
tacea in particular. This gentleman asserts that he has ob
served that these animals undergo a metamorphosis. He states
having discovered swimming freely in the sea a small crusta-
ceous animal furnished with a shell composed of two valves like
those of Daphnia ; that being desirous of watching it further,
he kept it in water, and was much surprised, after a few days,
at seeing it throw off its bivalve shell, attach itself to the bottom
of the vessel, and become transformed into the Ba/anus pusillus
of Pennant*. For some time afterwards these alleged facts
were thought to require confirmation from other observers ;
more especially as in a communication made to the Zoological
Society last yearf, Mr. Gray advanced some statements re
specting the condition of the young of Balanus Cranchii (Leach)
observed in ovo, as well as of the young of the genera Pentelas-
mis and Otion, which appeared to militate against the accuracy
of Mr. Thompson's views. They have, however, been fully
established by Dr. Burmeister, who has recently published a
treatise on these animals announcing this circumstance ; and
judging from his own observations, combined with those which
had been previously made by others, Dr. Burmeister infers that
the Cirripeda ought to be arranged with the Crustacea, forming
   particular tribe in that  Mcla. sMs Ja.rtin-St.-Ange
a
   It may be stated that
                                                         is  said  to be                                                     en
gaged in a work on the organization and affinities of the Cirri
peda. The results of his researches have been already given to the
public in a memoir read to the Royal Academy of Sciences at
Paris towards the end of last year §. They likewise favour the
opinion that these animals, at least the pedunculated genera, are
truly articulated, and allied to the lower forms of Crustacea.

M. Martin-St.-Ange thinks that they also show some points of
affinity to the Annelida.

   * It is a curious fact that, according to Mr. Thompson, the young animal
should not only possess the power of locomotion, which is denied to the adult,
but distinct organs of sight, which, after the transformation into Balani, gra
dually become obliterated. This is analogous to Edwards's observation (already
alluded to) in the case of the development of the Cgmothoee. It
J Jt                                                                                                                         however,
                      's
                         of
                                                   p.

                                                            is
                                                                        p.

                                                                                         p.

                                                                     I
                                                                                                                        is,
yet more striking.
   See Proceed, Zool. Soc. (1833),
                                    115.

   The above statements arc on the authority of De Ferussac's Introduction
to his recently published Monograph on the Cephalopoda.
                                                             have not seen
Burmeister work myself, which said to be entitled Beilrage zur Naturge-
schichte der Rankenfiisser. 4to, Berlin, 1834.
   See L'Institut, No. 27. 226, and No. 62. 231.
                             REPORT ON ZOOLOGY.               2H"i

                                                                 t

The classification of the Cirripeda was greatly advanced by
the labours of Dr. Leach, who made a particular study of this
class, and instituted several new genera in it. His arrangement
is founded upon characters derived from the shelly covering of

these animals, which he submitted to a more minute and rigor
ous analysis than any previous observer had done before him *.
PhMil,r.                     attended to this subject.        In the Ann. of
           Gray has    also   has published a synopsis
                         he                                    of the genera
          for 1825 f,

arranged in natural families.

                             IV. Radiata, Ciiv.

As we descend the scale of organization we find the groups
defined with less and less certainty. In the present division,
our knowledge of their exact limits, we may even say of the
number of primary types of form which this division comprises,
is so imperfect, that it would be to little purpose to detail all
the different arrangements which have been proposed for these
animals, the classification of which is probably still destined to
undergo great and important revolutions. After all, it is doubt
ful whether we must not admit with MacLeay that they form two
groups, each of equal value with that of the Vertebrate, Annu-
lose, and Molluscous divisions, instead of one only as Cuvier

supposes. In this state of uncertainty, I shall merely take
Cuvier's classes in the order in which they stand in the llegne
Animal, and under each state some of the principal additions
which have been made of late years to our general knowledge of
these animals. This will naturally lead to the mention of several
important steps which have been gained towards an improved
classification of them.

   The following are the classes into which Cuvier divides the

Radiata : Echinodermes, Intestinaux (Entozoa, Rudolp.),

Acalejihes, Polypes,         a--ndToInofuusrokirneosw. ledge  of this class I am not
   1 . Echinodermata.

aware of many important additions that have been made recently.
Since the publication of Tiedemann's work on the anatomy of
these animals, which gained the prize from the French Institute
in 1812, and which served to clear up many points in the details
of their organization, no one appears to have studied their struc
ture more deeply than Delle Chiaje. Several memoirs have
appeared by this last author % treating of the genera Echinus,

   * See the article Or. hum hi :s in the Suppl. to lite Encycl . Brit . Also Zool.
Journ. (1825), vol. ii. p. 208.

  Jt vol. xxvi. p. 97.

       Memorie mil/a Storia e Notomia der/li .-Inimali scnza Verlehre. Ito, Nap.
1 823, &c.
228 FOURTH REPORT 1834.

listerias, Holothnria, and Siphunciilus, all which he has sub
mitted to a close investigation. His researches on the genus
Siphunculus lead him to think that this group has been wrongly
placed by Cuvier in the present class, and that it belongs more
properly to the Annelida.

   In 1827, Mr. Thompson published an account of a newly dis
covered recent species of Pentacrinus*, a genus well known in
a fossil state, but one of which the true situation in the system
was before rather doubtful. From an examination of this spe
cies, the structure of which in its several stages of development

he has given in full detail, Mr. Thompson fully proved that the
Crinoidea (so ably illustrated by the late Mr. Miller t) are closely
allied to the AsteruB, and especially to the genus Comatula of
              The only previously known recent
Lamarck.                                                           species of this
tribe, the  P. Caput Medusa:, found in the West                    Indies, had not

been brought to Europe in a fit state to allow of any investiga
tion of its structure.
Mr. Gray has lately submitted to the Zoological Societyf speci
mens of the shelly covering of a new genus, which is interesting
            aanddiAstsitnecrtiidfeaem.ily,Itifisnoatllieodrdetro,
as forming                                                         intermediate to the
EchinidUe                                                          the latter in having

only a single opening to the digestive canal ; while it agrees
with the former in form and consistence, differing however from
it in not being composed of many plates. For this genus, which
Mr. Gray thinks bears a near affinity to the fossil Glenotremites
parIandotxhuesAnonf .GoolfdPfuhsisl,,                              of Ganymeda.
                                         he proposes the name      has published         a

                                         for 1825 §, Mr. Gray
                                     of  the families of the Echinidcc\\.
na2tu. rEalntaorrzaonag.e--meInnt  this  group, as it stands in the Regne   Animal,

we find an assemblage of animals which, though not much studied
in this country, have received great attention from several Ger
man and French naturalists, from whose combined researches
it seems now quite certain that they can no longer be arranged
all in the same class. Cuvier divides the Entozoa into two

J·  Memoir on   the Penlacrinus          Europ&us, fyc.  4to, Cork, 1827.   Bristol,  1821.
    Nat. Hist,  of the Crinoidea,        or Lily-shaped  Animals, S(C 4to,
+                                                                  § vol. xxvi. p. 423.
    Proceedings of the ZooLSoc. (1834), p. 15.
   || Since this Report was read, a short  but important communication on the
external structure of the Echinodermata     and their mode of growth has been
published by M. Agassiz. His chief object is to show that the Echinodermata,
although usually considered as partaking of a radiated structure in which all
the parts of the body are similar, nevertheless exhibit a bilateral symmetry;
furthermore, that the addition of new plates, as the animal increases in size,
takes place in a spiral and not in a vertical succession, as would appear at first
sight to be the case. M. Agassiz announces it to be his intention to publish a
monograph on these animals. See Lond. and Edinb. Phil. Mag. and Journ. of
Sci. for Nov. 1834, p. 3G9.
           KKPORT ON ZOOLOGY.                             229

orders, which he calls Intestinaux Cavituires and latest. Paren-
chymateux, the former answering to the Nematoidea of Rudol-
phi, the latter comprising the last four orders of this author.
Cuvier admits, however, that there is a great difference in the
respective organizations of these two groups. In fact, the Ne~
matoidea, raised so much above the other Entozoa by their di
stinct nervous system, are now generally allowed to approach
closely the Annulose structure, if not to belong to that division
of the animal kingdom. Mr. MacLeay long since referred them
to that type, observing, that in a natural arrangement it seems
hardly possible to separate them far from Lumbricus and Gor-
dius*. With Blainville they also form a portion of his Ento
mozoaires Apodesf. In a more recent publication^ this last
author has gone further into detail with respect to the arrange
ment of the Entozoa in general. He thinks they constitute
two classes at least ; the greater portion forming the last class

in his type Entomozoaires (in which class he includes the Hi-

rudinidce) ; the remainder (comprising the third and fourth
families of Cuvier's Litest. Parenchymateux) forming a sub
type intermediate to the Entomozoaires and Actinozoaires (or
Zoophytes), though on the whole approaching nearest to the
former. Blainville does not admit that in the classification of
the Entozoa we should be at all more influenced by their pecu
liar habitat than in that of other animals. He looks only to the
organization, which leads him to place in the same order (Oxy

cephalies, Blain.) Filuria, Gordius, and Vibrio, genera certainly

not very dissimilar in structure, though residing in very differ
ent situations. His other orders in the class Entomozoaires
Apodes include in like manner both external and internal worms.
There can be no doubt that this principle is just to a certain
extent. Indeed it is supported by the opinions and researches
of others. Lamarck and Bory-St.- Vincent both suspected an
affinity between the Vibriones and the true Vermes. Duges, in
the Ann. des Sci. for 1826§, has instituted a close comparison
between the Vibriones and the Oxyures of Rudolphi, and from
an examination of their digestive and reproductive systems,
seems decidedly to think that they belong to the same group.
Professor Baer of Konigsberg, whose researches have tended
greatly to elucidate the structure and affinities of the Entozoa,
has in a memoir (or rather one of a series of memoirs) on the
lower animals, published in the 13th volume of the Nov. Act.
Sfc. Nat. Cur., endeavoured to show that neither the Entozoa nor

f· Hor. Ent., p. 224.  Principes d'Artat. Comp., tab. ".
J Art. Vers in the 57th volume of the Diet, des Sci. Nat., published in 1828.
This treatise also appeared separately under the title of Manuel d'Hehnin-
           § torn. ix. p. 22fl.
tholoyic.
230 FOURTH REPORT-- 1834.

Infusoria can be preserved as distinct classes. It should be
stated, however, that he has embraced    some peculiar views re-
specting the systematic distribution of   animals, of which it is
I'
impossible to give any detailed account here.  may also allude
to a curious memoir by Duges in the Ann. des Sci. for 1832*,
as affording fresh suspicion that the Entozoa do not form a
natural class of themselves to the exclusion of other animals.
He describes a new and very singular genus found free in water
amongst duckweed, which
Tcenicc and Bothriocephali  appears    to be   closely allied to the
                                       small,  but has its body di
                            . It is
vided into segments like those animals, these segments being of
a similar form, and varying in number from four to eight. Duges
thinks it not improbable that this may have been the supposed
Tcenia which Linnaeus is said to have met with free in water.
He gives it the name of Catenula Lemnce.
The Planarice, again, present us with a group of animals not
parasitic, which are now universally admitted amongst the Paren
chymatous Worms, and considered as belonging to the Tremadota
of Rudolphi. Cuvier indeed (as Lamarck and others had already
done) assigned them this place in the first edition of the Regne
Animal, but it was not without doubts as to their true situation.
These doubts are now quite removed by the researches of Dr.
Baer and M. Duges, both of whom have investigated the struc
ture of these animals, the former in the memoirs before alluded
to, the latter in the Ann. des Sci. for 1828 and 1830f. The
result is, that neither of these observers has been able to detect

any muscular, or ganglionic nervous system ; and the latter thinks
that it is the absence of these systems principally which serves
to separate them from the Hirudinidai, with which they have
been so often classed. At the same time, Duges points out seve
ral respects in which they clearly approach the group just men

tioned. It may be added, that Duges has proposed in his me
moir to raise the Planarice to the rank of a family, in which
he particularizes three distinct genera. These he has charac
terized from the structure of the digestive organs, and the situa
tion as well as number of the orifices.
As there are some groups which, thoughwoJ parasitic, require to
be associated with the Entozoa, there are others which are para
sitic, and which many have arranged with these animals, but of

which the true situation is extremely doubtful. Such are the Ler-

Enncetz, presenting such evident affinities to the Siphonostomous
   * torn. xxvi. p. 198.

  f I may also allude to two papers by Dr. Rawlins Johnson in the Phil.

Trims, for 1822 and 1825, containing the result of some inquiries into the power
of reproduction possessed by these animals. This subject, however, had been
previously investigated by Mr. Dalyell in his interesting memoir on the Plana-

riir. published at Edinburgh in 1811.
                             REPORT ON ZOOLOGY.                                                       281

tomostraca, to which they are referred by Blainville, Straus-Durck-
heim, Edwards, and others, although placed by Cuvier at the end
of his Intestinaux Cavitaires. Blainville has made a particular
study of this family, in which he has characterized eight distinct
genera* . Nevertheless, we stand much in need of further informa
tion respecting their structure andceconomyf. On the other hand,
the Acephalocysti, and the Hydatids in general, appear so low in
the scale of organization, that it may be questioned whether

they can be placed in the same class with all the other groups

included in Cuvier's second order. Nitzsch and Leuckart, as
well as Dugez, think that the Acephalocysti are allied to
the Volvoces and other vesicular Infusoria\. M. Kuhn, in a me
moir lately published §, does not consider them as true animals,
but thinks that they should have a place assigned them amongst
those ambiguous beings which hold a middle rank between the
animal and vegetable kingdoms, and to which Bory St. Vincent
has given the name of Psychodiaires.

   From the above observations it will be seen how much re

mains yet to be done towards a natural arrangement of these

aawnnidliml dtaholesw. weTlolhrtokossecoowfnhsRouultwd,o--olupblhdeis,eidnweteshrictihhnetoamretehmewodeirelsltakialnslorewoafnd,tyh--eaitlrhluehdiewsdtoorrtkyos,,
of Bremser||, Cloquet^f, Creplin**, and Leuckartft- Bremser, in

   · See/ourn. deP/iys. (1822), torn. xcv. pp. 372 and 437; also the 26th vol.
of the Diet, des Sci. Nat., art. Lerne'e.
      t According to the observations of Dr. Surrirey of Havre, the Lernteee un
          a metamorphosis,      and     are very    different  in                   their young state from what
dergo   are in their adult.    (See  I  Blainville   in Diet,                       Sci. Nat., torn. xxvi. p. 115.)
         this Report was     read,                             des                   above fact has been recently
they                                    have learned that      the
Since

confirmed by M. Nordmann, who is said to have published several very inter
esting researches connected with the gradual development of these animals, and
such as leave no doubt of their forming part of the same group with the Sipho-
n"oMsloikmroougsrapChriusscthaeceaB. eilraTgheesezurobNseartvuartgioensschicahrete  contained in a    work entitled,
                                                                                     der Wirbellosen   Thiere," Ber

lin, 1832. Not having seen              iIt,
                                             I

                                                                    a
                                                                               i.
                                                                                                it
                                        can make no further allusion to in reference

to this subject.                        Ann. des Sci. Nat. 1832.

U || §  Mi' in. de la Soc. d'Hist. Nat. de Strasbourgh, torn. part 2.
        Bremser published at Vienna, in 1819, work on the human Entozoa,
which in 1824 was translated into French by Grundler and Blainville, and en
riched with many valuable observations from this last author.

          Author of Anatomie des Vers Intestinaux. Par. 1824, 4to.
      ·· Creplin has published two treatises on the Intestinal Worms, one in 1825
under the name of Observationes de Entozois another, entitled Novce Obsered-
                                        a
                                                                 ;

                                                                  I
tiones, S;c. at Berlin in 1829. These works, which have not seen, are said to

contain descriptions of a great many new species, along with many detached

observations on these animals.
tt Leuckart
                  is  the author of natural classification of Intestinal Worms, in

German, published at Heidelberg in 1827. This work has been before alluded
to as containing an arrangement in conformity with the principles of Okcn.
232 FOURTH REPORT 1834.

addition to his treatise on the Entozoa of the human species, has
published a series of plates intended to illustrate Rudolphi's ge
nera, in which, by engraving on a dark ground, the white and
transparent parts of these animals are brought out in an admirable
manner. Van Lidth de Jeude has also published more recently
(1832.9A) caalceoplhleac.t--ionOoufrlkitnhoowglreadpgheedofptlhaitsesclaosfsthmeusset  animals*.
                                                                                       be considered

as very imperfect, notwithstanding it has engaged the attention of
many excellent observers. This is in a great measure to be at
tributed to several difficulties connected with the study of these
animals, particularly those arising from their very delicate struc
ture, which renders the preservation of specimens in many cases
almost impossible. Peron and Lesueur published some valuable
memoirs on the Medusa (taking this term in its full extent) in
the 14th and 15th volumes of the Ann. du Mus., which contained

a far more detailed history of this tribe than any that had ap

peared before, and contributed greatly towards an improved clas
sification of it. These authors are, however, generally allowed to

have overmultiplied the species, and to have established several
genera upon insufficient observation. Many additions to this
class, and to our knowledge of its structure, were made subse
quently by Chamisso and Eisenhardt in the 10th volume of the
Nova Acta 8fc. Nat. Cur., and a few in the 1 1th volume of the
same Transactions by Otto. Quoy and Gaimard also collected
much information with respect to the habits and organization of
these animals during their voyage with Freycinet. Some of their

observations were published in the Ann. des Sci. forl824f and
B1le8up2hll5a,J.daereIlancoSthnoccise. rPnlaehsdti,l,vorfeolulramt1ee8, 2o4tnh§,leyirMtor.etmDhaeerkFgsre,enmusosinfBvaierllreoase.hthaesInApcutabhe-
lished some observations on the Physaliapelagica, to which are
annexed descriptions of three new species belonging to that ge
nus. Some researches on the structure of the Physalice were
published about the same time in the 9th volume of the Pcters-

hurgh Memoirs by Eichwald. In 1825, Rosenthal published
some collections towards the anatomy of the Medusce\\, the spe

cies principally examined being the M. aurita, Linn. In 1827,

another memoir was published by Quoy and Gaimard in the
Ann. des Sci.%, containing an account of a vast number of new

  * Besides the above works, I may mention that of Nordmann, already alluded

to, from which some valuable extracts will be found in the Ann. des Sci. Nat.

ffor 1833, torn. xxx.               \ torn.
    torn.  i. p. 215      (1326),             vi. p. 28.                                § p. 42.
||         des Sci. Nat.           torn. ix.  p. 253.                                  H torn. x.
    Bull,
                              REPORT OX ZOOLOGY.  23i{

marine animals discovered by them the year before in the Straits
of Gibraltar, where they were detained some days by a calm
soon after the commencement of a second voyage with Captain
D'Urville. Amongst these are several new genera belonging to
the group of Diphyes, Cuv., which the authors consider as en

titled to^nk as a family. This memoir contains by far the

most valuable details respecting the organization of these re

markable animals which had appeared up to that time. In 1828,
Rang published in the Mem. de la Soc. d'Hist. Nat. de Paris*

a memoir on the genus Beroe, which he considers as forming
another distinct family amongst the free Acalepha, in which he
describes two new genera. Rang thinks that the free Aca
lepha may be divided into three families, having for their re
spective types Beroe, Medusa, and Diphya. The characters of

these he proposes to take from the organs of locomotion. In

the first (Beroides, Rang,) they consist of a number (always an
even number) of longitudinal ribs formed by very numerous se
ries of small ciliae ; in the second (Medusaires) , these organs
are membranes, sometimes entire, sometimes fringed or cut into
leaflets, and ranged in a circle round an umbrella ; in the third
(Diphides), these organs are found only in the margin of the
principal opening, and sometimes also in a membrane bordering
the circumference of it.

    By far the most valuable work which has yet appeared in this
department of zoology is said to be the System der Acalephen,
8>c. of Dr. Eschsholtz, published at Berlin in 1829f. Its author
is well known as the naturalist who accompanied Captain Kotze-
bue in his voyage of discovery, and as having some time back
published valuable observations on the Physaliee, Porpitcc, and
 Velelltc, made by himself during that voyage^. In the present
work he has given a detailed account of the structure of the
Acalepha in general, as well as presented a new arrangement of
these animals. Their organization, according to his researches,
would seem to be of a more complex nature than was formerly
supposed. He has discovered a very perfect vascular system in
the Beroe tribe, which has led him to place this group at the
head of the series. In his classification he adopts three orders,
 Ctenophora, Discophora, and Siphonophora, the characters of
which are taken from the presence or absence of a central diges
tive cavity, and from the form and structure of the organs of lo
 comotion.

\·  tIorhna.veiv.npo.t  166.  this work myself.  The above notice of it is from the Dull.
                        seen

desSci. Nat. (1831), torn. xxiv.

X See Kotzebues Voyage, vol. iii. Append.
 231 FOURTH REPORT 1834.

    Since the appearance of Eschsholtz's work, three or four valu
 able memoirs have been published by different observers in further
 illustration of the Acalepha. One of these is a monograph on
the genus Diphya by Lesson*, containing several new remarks
on these animals. He thinks that many of the genera instituted
by Quoy and Gaimard are only separate pieces, or articulations,
detached from the aggregate mass of the animal which forms his

genus Plethosoma. A second is a memoir by Tilesius, published

in 1831-f, in which are descriptions and figures of many species of
Medusce, more particularly belonging to the genus Cassiopea,

accompanied by general remarks on this group. A third is a

paper byMilne Edwards on the structure of Carybda marsupialis,
in the Ann. des Sci. for 1833+ ; and a fourth, one by Dr. Grant
on that of the Beroe Pileus, published the same year§. These
last two memoirs, although treating only of single species, are
of importance as tending to raise our notions still further with
respect to the organization of these animals. The Carybda
marsupialis is a species belonging to that portion of the Me
dusa; which have been hitherto considered as having no stomach,
and in this and other respects, as possessing a structure even far
more simple than the rest of this family. Edwards has found
this to be erroneous, by tracing the existence not only of a sto
mach and mouth, but of biliary ducts, as well as ovaries. He
shows that its structure is quite as complicated as that of any
other of the Medusce. Dr. Grant, in dissecting Beroe Pileus, has
discovered an arrangement of filaments and ganglia which, from
their general appearance and mode of distribution, he considers
as constituting a nervous system. This is a great step gained
in our knowledge of the structure of the Acalepha. Rosenthal
sought in vain for traces of a nervous system. Quoy and Gai
mard, as well as many others, seem satisfied with respect to its
entire absence. Dr. Grant however observes, that although
nerves have not hitherto been shown in the Acalepha, he thinks
they will be found even in the simpler forms of Medusce, which
he has shown elsewhere to be affected by light, as well as
Actinia;, Hydra;, and Furcocerca;.

   An important work was published by Blainville in 1830, in
which he has embodied a vast deal of information relating to the
structure, history, and classification, not only of the present
tribes, but of all the other animals belonging to Cuvier's divi

· Published in his Centurie Zoolog. Nov. 1830.  % ton), xxviii. p. 219.

t Nov. Act. fyc. Nat. Cur., torn. xv. p. 247.

§ Zool. Trans., vol. i. p. 9.
REPORT ON ZOOLOGY.                                                                                                                          235

osoiffothwhehoifc6hR0tuhisdvitaoatlkuaem,newuoiptfhtwhteihtehDeitexhcete, padtreiotsincSlecoiefZnot.hoeNpahEtyn.,tteotzshoeabgy.retahteIer  speak
                                                                                                                                              part

                                                                                                                                            above

author*. Blainville, however, has exposed some peculiar views
respecting the affinities of certain families hitherto considered
as belonging to the Acalepha, to which it is necessary to make
some allusionf. These relate particularly to the Phy&aliee, which,
he observes, are of a very anomalous character, and in some mea
sure seem to depart from every known type. He has, however,
ventured an opinion, grounded on an examination of specimens
of Physsophora and Stephanomia communicated to him by
Quoy and Gaimard, that the Physalice ought to be removed

from the place usually assigned them, and made to constitute a
distinct order among the Mollusca, near the orders called in his

system Poly brandies and Nucleobranches. Blainville appears
to have been led to this idea more from observing the arrange
ment of the external parts of these animals, than from any close
investigation of their internal organization. On this ground,

Cuvier expresses himself as decidedly opposed to itj. He ob
serves, that before we can admit them to a place in that division,
it ought to be shown that they possess a nervous, as well as
vascular system, a heart, and liver, as well as male and female
organs of generation, all which he (Cuvier) has in vain sought
for. Blainville in like manner differs from other naturalists
with respect to the affinities of the Diphyce, which he thinks

constitute a group intermediate to the Salpee and Physsophora;.
Also the genus Beroe he thinks should be removed from the
great family of Medusa; (Arachnodermaires, Blainv.), with which

it is so constantly associated. It must be obvious that many
speculations will arise with respect to the situation and affinities,
not of these groups only, but of several others amongst the lower
animals, until we are made better acquainted with their organi

zation and habits. These offer to us the only sure grounds upon
which we can proceed in the endeavour to determine their place
in the natural system ; and very many researches relating to
these points remain yet to be made amongst the Acalepha. The
Dipkyai in particular astonish us by the singularity of their
form and structure. Composed of two polygonal, subcartilagi

· The Entozoa are treated of in a former volume under the art. Vers, which
includes also the Annelida. To this article allusion has been already made in

a former part of this Report.
t A second edition of the above work has been published during the present
ryeemarai(n1,8h3o4w) euvnedr,erunthcehatnitgleedofwMithanrueeslpedct'Atcolinthoelogaibeo.ve  The views    of its author
                                                                                             affinities.

* Analyse des Trav., 1828.
23(3                   FOURTH REPORT -- 1S34.

nous, transparent parts, found constantly in a state of union,

naturalists seem hardly to be agreed, whether these parts belong
to the same animal, or whether they constitute two distinct in
dividuals, although in form always more or less dissimilar.
Blainville embraces the former opinion ; Quoy and Gaimard, as

well as Cuvier, seem inclined to the latter. It would not be

difficult to point out other instances in which we want further
information with respect to the Acalepha. The limits of this
RItepisorotneforebspide,cihaollwyevienr,whoiucrhdewveelrlyingneawnyoblsoenrgveatriounponwitllhihsavcelasists.
value ; and it is only to be regretted that so few persons have it
in their power to study these animals in a recent state, in which
alone they admit of such an examination as is likely to conduct
to 4a.nyPoimlyppori.t--antItdisiscnoovtearidevsa. ncing too much to affirm that natu
ralists are only just beginning to get an insight into the natural
arrangement of that immense assemblage of beings which con
stitutes Cuvier's fourth class of Zoophytes, and that even this in
sight extends but as yet to comparatively few families. Their

researches, however, are sufficiently advanced to prove clearly,
that the true situation and affinities of these animals are in many
cases very different from those which have been assigned to them
in the Rtgne Animal. Some have been shown to possess a struc
ture entitling them to a higher place in the scale of organization ;
while in others the animal powers seem so reduced, the struc
ture at the same time offering such peculiarities, that they appear
to constitute a distinct class, far below the generality of other
Zoophytes. One great drawback to our better knowledge of
these groups has arisen from the circumstance, that until lately,
naturalists, with some few exceptions, scarcely paid any attention
to the animals of the Incrusted Polypi*, which constitute so
large a portion of them. They looked only to the characters of
the calcareous covering ; and it is not surprising that with this
half-knowledge they should fall into many erroneous notions
with respect to  affinities, in  their attempts
systematically.                  which at the    to arrange the species
                   It is this                    present day detracts
somewhat from the value of the works of Lamourouxf, notwith

standing their great merit in other respects, and the powerful in
         which                               theHeprohgares ssmaodf eZouosphayc-
fluence  at the  they  undoubtedly had over
tology           time  when they appeared.

   * The Polypes a Polypier of the French, for which we have no adequate
expression in our language.

   t Hisioire ties Polypiers Coralline* Flexible*, fyc. Caen, 1816, 8vo. And

Exposition Mithodiquc des Genres de I'Ordre des Polypiers, Paris, 1821, 4to.
                      REPORT ON ZOOLOGY.                              237

quainted with a vast number of new species, as well as established
several distinct genera which had not been before indicated, but
his classification is decidedly artificial. Adopting from the first
the artificial distinctions of Polypier flexible, Poly pier pierreux,
and Polypier sarcoide, he has been necessarily led, as Blainville
                           artificial  arrangement of all his
observes, to a  similarly  prospect     has, however, opened   subordi
nate groups.                                                   upon us
                A better
in this respect. Naturalists are now guided in this department
of zoology by the same principles which have for some time
back directed their researches in the other branches of the sci
ence. They see the importance of studying the entire organiza
tion. And while this has led them to a close investigation of
the Polypi themselves in those zoophytes in which they are
really present, it has also led them to distinguish, and to sepa
rate from these last, others, in which it is now clearly ascertained
Ithat no Polypi ever exist.

      can only make a brief allusion to a few important steps which
have been gained of late years in our knowledge of these animals.
One of these relates to the Madrepores, the animals of which have

been proved, by the researches of Lesueur*, Eysenhardt, and Cha-
misso, and more recently, as well as more decidedly, by those of
Quoy and Gaimard, to hold a much nearer affinity to the Actinice
than to the Hydrce. Blainville, who has attempted to characterize
the generaf from a consideration of the hard and soft parts con
jointly, considers them as true Actinice, in the parenchyma of
which is deposited a considerable quantity of calcareous matter,
producing what the French call the Polypier. He observes,
that we may even find a gradual transition in this respect from
the softest of the Actinice to the most solid and most calcareous
of the Madrepores. He accordingly throws them both together
in one class (Zoantharia, Blainy.), in which however they form
two distinct orders. Quoy and Gaimard paid particular atten
tion to the Polypiferous Zoophytes during their voyage with
FreycinetJ, and ascertained the nature of the animals in several
genera in which they had not been described before, or only in

an imperfect manner. Amongst others may be mentioned the
Tubipora of Linnaeus, which had been supposed by some to

f·  Mint. <!u Mm.,    torn. vi. p. 271.
    Diet, des Scien.  Nat., art. Zoophytes.

   t See the volume of Zoology annexed to that voyage ; also Ann. des Scien.
Nat., torn. vi. p. 273, and torn. xiv. p. 236. The former of the two memoirs
just cited contains some remarks on the supposed rapid growth of Coral Islands,
and the power possessed by the Polypi of raising perpendicular walls from the
bottom of the ocean. According to their observations, the labours which have
been ascribed to these animals have been very much exaggerated, and the ac
counts which have been sometimes given of them altogether erroneous.
    238 FOURTH REPORT 1834.

    be inhabited by an annelidous animal. MM. Quoy and Gai-
    mard have shown it to be a true Polype. Delle Chiaje is said
    also to have described the animals of certain species which had
    previously been unnoticed. Dr. Fleming in our own country
    has made many interesting researches connected with the genera
    and species found on the British shores*. More important con
    tributions, however, to our knowledge of this class of animals
    were made in 1825, and the two succeeding years by another of
    our countrymen, whose labours    in      tIhiaslluddepearttomeDnrt.
    for him the highest reputation.                                      have acquired
                                                                         Grant, whose

    series of papers on the Sponges and other zoophytes are replete
    with new and valuable observations. Those on the Sponges es

    pecially, published in the Edinb. Phil. Journ. for the above
    yearsf, contain the results of a far closer investigation than had
    been before made into the nature of these anomalous productions.
    Indeed he was the first to discover their true organization and
    functions. He clearly ascertained that they do not possess any
    Polypi, nor even the power of contracting and dilating their
    orifices, as had been formerly supposed. He was the first to
    draw the exact distinction between the faecal orifices and the

    pores ; as well as to point out the nature and directions of the
    currents which are constantly passing out from the former. He
    also succeeded in determining the origin and mode of develop
    ment of the ova. The memoirs just alluded to relate to the

    Marine Sponges. In a separate communication^, he gave the
    results of a similar investigation into the nature of the Spongilla
    friabilis of Lamarck, found in fresh water, which he showed to
    bear a close resemblance to the above in all essential respects,
    although more simple in its structure, and occupying a still lower
    place in the scale of organization. In 1827 Dr. Grant extended
    his researches to the Flustrce, and published a detailed account
    of the structure and ceconomy of this tribe of Polypi, which were
    before but imperfectly understood. Several other equally valu
    able   papers relating to  thheowzeovoeprhyItecsanaopnpelyarjeudst  from him
    the   same time, to which                                           allude.    about

                                                                                  In one
    of these§, he has described a new and highly interesting genus,
                    a connecting link between Alcyonium and Spongia ;
    f"oramlliinedg  to the former by its contractile fleshy texture, and by

    its distinct though microscopic Polypi ; to the latter, by its

       · See Edin. Phil. Journ., vol. p. 82  and Wern. Mem., vol. iv. p. 485
    his British Animals, published in 1828.
    §If                                                                                                                                                       also
                                                 ;
                                                     ii.

                                                         i. i.
                                                                      p.

                                                                                     ;
                                                                                                                                                           ;
          vols. xiii. and xiv. also vols. and ii. of the New Series.
    Edinb. Phil. Journ., vol. xiv. p. 270.
    Edinb. Phil. Journ., N.S., vol.
                                             78.

'N
                     REPORT ON ZOOLOGY.                         2,19

siliceous tubular spicula, ramified internal canals, tubular papillae,
regular currents, and the distribution of its ova." In another,

published the same year in the same journal, he has detailed
some observations on the spontaneous motions of the ova of
several species of zoophytes, a motion which, though long since
observed by Ellis in the case of the Campanularia dichotoma,
Lam., scarcely seems to have attracted notice afterwards, not
withstanding its importance as connected with the mode of

generation in these animals. In 1827, Dr. Grant also published
two papers in theEdinb. Journ. of Science, one* on the structure
and mode of generation of the Virgularia mirabilis and Penna-
t ii la phosphorea, the otherf on the generation of the Lobularia

Jdigitata. A supplement to his first memoir appeared in the

same journal in 1829.
   About the same time as that when Dr. Grant was engaged

with these researches, two or three observers in France were
busied in a similar investigation, as well of the Sponges as of
some of the freshwater gelatinous Polypi of Cuvier's second
order. Raspail and Robineau-Desvoidy first read a memoir to the
Royal Academy of Sciences in 1 827 § on the Alcyonella ofLamarck.
Their object was to elucidate the structure of this ill-understood
zoophyte, and more especially to show that the supposed Polypi
seen in it by Lamarck were only parasites, probably belonging
to the genus Nais, the tubes of the Polypier being naturally im
perforate. This opinion was, however, retracted by Raspail in
 a second and very elaborate memoir on this zoophyte read the

same year||, in which he acknowledged the existence of the Po
lypi, but sought to prove by a course of detailed observations that
this genus was not distinct from Cristatella or Plumatella ; that
in fact these three genera, as well as Difflugia of Lamarck, were

one and the same animal in different stages of developmental- Ras
 pail also made several observations on the structure of Sponges,
 in some respects analogous to those by Dr. Grant. In a me
moir, likewise read in 1827 and published the year following**,
 he gave the results of a microscopic examination into the struc
 ture of the Spongilla friabilis, many of which results, however,
 differed very materially from those arrived at by our own coun

tryman. Part of his object was to point out an analogy be

· vol. vii. p. 332.           t vol. viii. p. 104.              t vol. x. p. 350.
§ Cuv., Anal, des Trav., 1827.
   || This second memoir was subsequently published in the Mem. de la Soc.
a" Hut. Nat. de Paris (torn. iv. p. 75).

   % Further researches seem necessary in order to establish beyond doubt the
identity of the above genera. The opinion of Raspail on this point has not
been universally adopted.
   ·· Mem. de la Soc. d'llist. Nat. de Par., torn. iv. p. 204.
240 FOURTH REPORT 1834.

tween the siliceous spiculte found in this genus and in the other
Sponges, and the spicule of oxalate of lime met with in certain
plants. In 1828, the Spongilla was again made the subject
of a memoir, by Dutrochet*. He confirmed Dr. Grant's obser
vations, particularly those relating to the existence of currents
(which Dutrochet attributed to endosmose) and the entire ab
sence of Polypi. Dutrochet, however, considered the Spongilla

as a vegetable.

   A series of valuable observations relating to the zoophytes
were also published in 1828 by Audouin and Edwards t, being

a portion of the researches of these indefatigable naturalists at
the Chausey Islands. They afford fresh confirmation of the
accuracy of Dr. Grant's views respecting the Sponges and Flits-
tree. They also seem to lead to the important discovery that
many of the species in this last group possess an organization
more complex than has been hitherto supposed, and such as

brings them into near affinity with some of the compound As-

cidi<B%. The same complexity of structure is stated to have
been seen by them to a certain extent in many Vorticellcc.
These observers indeed have found such great differences in the
organization of the class of Polypi in general, so far as they
have had an opportunity of examining them, that they propose
a fresh division of this class into four sections, each of which
will constitute a natural family characterized by a peculiar type

of structure. Theirs/ of these groups will embrace the Sponges ;
the second, the fixed Polypi, whether naked or incrusted, in

which the digestive cavity is in the form of a culde sac hollowed
out in the very substance of the body (Hydree, Sertularia:,
many Vorticellce) ; the third will include those Polypi having
a cavity in the body, in the middle of which is suspended a
membranaceous digestive canal, communicating outwards by a
single opening, and bearing at its lower extremity appendices
in the form of small intestines, which appear to perform the
office of ovaries {Lobularice, Gorgonice, Pennatulce, Veretillee,
Cornularice, &c.) ; the fourth will include the Flustrce and
other Polypi, in which the digestive canal communicates out
wards by two distinct openings, and the organization of which
approaches that of the compound Ascidiee.

* Ann. des Sci. Nat., torn. xv. p. 205.  + Id., torn. xv. p. 5.
X Cuvier states that similar observations had been made by Spallanzani, and
also more recently by Blainville. He adds, however, that according to Quoy
and Gaimard, there are certainly other species in which the animals are true
Polypi; and that hence it would be very desirable to ascertain which belong to
one type of structure, and which to the other. See liegne Animal, torn. iii.

p. 303. note (5).
                                    REPORT ON ZOOLOGY.                           21-1

    It is probably to this last group of zoophytes, containing the

more perfectly organized genera, that the animal belongs which
Mr. Thompson has described under the name of Polyzoa in the
fourth number of his Zoological Researches. This name he
has applied as a general title for the animal inhabitants of seve
ral zoophytes, which in their organization he considers as be

longing to the Acephalous Mollusca, being possessed of a di
stinct gullet, stomach, intestine, and ovarium. Such a structure
he has noticed in Sertularia imbricata, S. Cuscuta, S. spinosa,
and S. pustulosa, and he thinks that                    it"  will
in all the other species of Sertularia                              probably  be found
                                                             not   furnished  with ovi-

ferous receptacles, distinct in size, shape, and situation from the
cells occupied by the animals, and consequently in all the Seri-
alaria of Lamarck." Mr. Thompson has also observed the
same organization in the Flustrce, thus confirming the observa
tions of Audouin and Edwards, with which, however, he does
not appear to be acquainted*.
    The memoirs which have been noticed above relate for the

most part to particular groups in the class under consideration.
The only work that has appeared of late years treating of this
entire department of zoology (I except Blainville's, which is of a

more general nature,) is one published byRappin 1829 f. This
work is divided into two parts. The first treats of the classifi
cation of the Polypi in general, presenting an arrangement in
which due consideration is had to the form of the animal. The

  I· may take this opportunity of stating, that at the same meeting of the

British Association at which this Report was read, Mr. Graham Dalyell brought
forward a memoir containing some highly interesting observations connected
with the mode of propagation and development of the Sertularia, as well as of
some other zoophytes found on the coast of Scotland. An abstract of this
memoir will be found in the Edinb. Neui Philos. Journ. for October last,

p.  411.                                                               " On the

    I may  also  observe,  that     since  then  an important  memoir            Structure

and Functions of tubular and cellular Polypi" has been published by Mr. Jack
son Lister in the second part of the Philosophical Transactions for 1834. The
principal feature in this memoir is the discovery of the existence of currents
within the stems of the Tubularia indivisa and of all the species of Sertularia
which were examined by the author. The circulating fluid, which appears to
be in some respects analogous to that observed in Chara, Mr. Lister is disposed
to regard as an important agent in the absorption and growth of the parts.
   t Ueber                                              die Actinien   ins besondere. Wei
            die   PolIypsheonuldim    allgemeinen, und  appeared in   1819 by Schweigger,
mar, 1829,  4to.                    state that a work

entitled Anatomisch-physiologische         Beobachtungen iiber Corallen, which is said

to contain a great many valuable observations on the structure and ceconomy of
zoophytes : 1 have not, however, seen it myself. Some of his researches went
far to prove that the Corallinee are only calcified plants. See an analysis of
his experiments on this subject by Dr. Grant in the Edinb. New Phil. Journ.,

vol. i. p. 220.

    1834.                                        R
242 FOURTH REPORT 1834.

primary division is grounded on the position of the ovaries or
germs, which are either external or internal, and give rise to two
groups accordingly. The former includes the genera Hydra,
Coryne, Sertularia, and Tubularia, united to form a small
family ; and the genus Millepora. The latter comprises the
Alcyonia, or Polypi tubiferi of Lamarck ; the Tubiporce ; the
Corals   ( Corallium, Gorgonia,                Isis,  and Antipathes) ; the Pen-
natulce  j the genera Zoanthus                         Cornularia ; and the Ma
                                                and

drepores. The second part of Rapp's work is confined to the
Actiniae, and may be regarded as a kind of monograph on that

difficult tribe, the species of which have been in general so ill-

determined.

The same year as that in which Rapp published the above
work, he also published a paper, in the fourteenth volume of the
Nov. Act. 8fc, Nat. Cur., on the structure of some species of

Polypi from the Mediterranean.
   It is not pretended, in what has gone before, to point out all
the discoveries which have been made in this class of late years ;
Iand possibly there may be some of more importance than any

mentioned which have omitted, through ignorance, to notice.
But whatever our knowledge may amount to, we may safely say
that it bears but a small proportion to what remains to be ac
quired. This is indeed true with respect to every department of
zoology, but it is most especially so with regard to the present.
As a proof, it is only necessary to mention that in Blainville's
work (I speak of the second edition, which appeared during the
present year,) there are upwards of fifty genera (without includ
Iing those which have been hitherto only found fossil) the cha
racters of which commence with animaux inconnus* .                    need

scarcely add what a field is here open to the naturalist, or how
far we must be removed from understanding the structure and
the true natural  --affSinoiticeosmoplfeatell
   5. Infusoria.                               the above groups.      effected  in
                                               a revolution has been
this group by the recent brilliant discoveries of Professor Ehren-
berg, as entirely to sink the value of every arrangement that
had been previously brought forward of the animals which it in

cludes. It is not, however, a department of zoology which had
before been much cultivated. Since the time of Miiller, to

whom we are indebted for the first accurate researches into the

history of these minute beings, but little progress has been made
in our knowledge respecting them, till the period we are about
to speak of. The most important contributions were those of

    · One of these genera is Antipathes, the animals of which, however, have
heen discovered by Mr. Gray, who read a short notice respecting them to the
Zoological Society in 1832. See Proceed, of Zool. Soc. for that year, p. 4 1.
                        REPORT ON ZOO LOG V.                          243

Nitzsch in 1816, who illustrated the structure of the Cercariec
and Bacillarice, and with whom rests the merit of having first
ascertained the existence of eyes in several species belonging to
the former of these groups. Many other observers have pub
lished descriptions of new species, as well as instituted new ge
nera ; but not having had a sufficiently correct idea of the real
organization of these animals, they have in too many instances
established their characters upon considerations which are found
at the present day to be of no importance whatever. This is
particularly the case with many new groups instituted by Bory
St. Vincent in the Diet. Class. d'Hist. Nat., in 1826. In this
work, under the Art. Microscopiques (which name he substi
tutes for that of Infusoria), he has given a new systematic ar
rangement of all the animals belonging to this class ; but being

unfortunately based on the external forms, not only are his

genera and species greatly overmultiplied*, but his classifica
tion is entirely artificial, and since the researches of Ehrenberg,
become perfectly useless. More important views on this sub
ject were entertained by Professor Baer in a paper published in
the 13th volume of the Nov. Act. Sjc, Nat. Cur., to which al

lusion has been already made in a former part of this Report.
He particularly noticed the great differences which appear in
the organization of these animals. Carried away, however, by
peculiar notions, which led him to consider them as only the
imperfect prototypes of other classes, he was for placing them
respectively in these classes, and suppressing that of Infusoria
altogether.
Ehrenberg's researches, which form quite an epoch in this
department of zoology, were first made known in a memoir read
to the Berlin Academy in 1830, and published in the Transac
tions of that body for that year. So many excellent analyses of
them have already appeared t, that it is not necessary, neither
would it be consistent  with the length of  tIhsishaRll espimorptl,y
here into any detailed  account of them.                              to enter
                                                                      mention

some of the chief results at which he has arrived with respect to
the structure of these animals, and which he has made the basis
of an improved classification of them. The principal feature is
the discovery that the Infusoria possess a much more complex
organization than naturalists before had any idea of. By sup

· The extent to which this has heen earned, not only by Bory St. Vincent but

by other writers on these animals, may be judged of from a statement by
Ehrenberg, who observes that Miiller has made of the VorticeUa Convallaria
twelve species, which form with Lamarck, Schrank, and Bory St. Vincent six

genera.                                                 Also the Ann. des

   t See the Edinb. New Phil.Journ. for 1831 and 1833.
Set. Nat. for March, &c, of the present year.

                        R2
244 FOURTH REPORT -- 1834.

plying them with organic colouring matter as nutriment, he has
clearly ascertained that they are not mere homogeneous gela
tinous masses supported by cutaneous absorption, as was for
merly supposed, but organized bodies, provided in all cases with
at least a mouth and digestive system. This last indeed he
has found subject to great variation of structure, being some
times simply a round sac in the centre of the body, at other
times a long canal, often very much convoluted, and furnished
with a great number of caecal appendages, which he considers
as so many distinct stomachs. The mouth also varies in its
structure, and presents good characters for distinguishing the
subordinate groups. In the simpler Infusoria, it is a mere
unarmed opening, surrounded with a greater or less number of
cilia;. In those of a higher order, however, it is much more
complicated, and in some cases even provided with a distinct
pair of serrated mandibles. Besides a digestive apparatus, Ehren-
berg has discovered a generative, and often a muscular system,
and has even in one or two instances observed traces of what
he considers as vascular and nervous systems. The existence
of these last, however, is at present somewhat problematical.

    These striking discoveries have naturally led Elirenberg to
reject entirely the principles upon which all former classifica
tions of these animals had been grounded, and to construct a
new one after the internal organization. His arrangement is
based upon the structure of the digestive system, which gives
rise to the two natural classes of Polygastrica and Rotatoria ;
the former consisting of such as are provided with several sto
machs or internal cavities ; the latter of such as have only one,
the mouth at the same time being surrounded by a peculiar

rotatory apparatus. Of these two classes the last is much more
complex in its structure than the former. It would even seem

to be more highly organized than some other classes in the
system, to which the animals included in it have been hitherto
always thought subordinate. With respect to the inferior groups,
those of the Polygastrica are characterized from the presence
or absence of an excretory orifice, the relative positions of the
mouth and anus when this last is present, and from the presence
and situation of the ciliae and other processes : in the Rotatoria,
the families are characterized from the mode of arrangement of
thecilite which form the rotatory organ. In each class the ge
nera form two parallel series, one consisting of the naked Infu
soria {Nuda, Ehrenb.), the other of such as are protected by a
crustaceous or horny covering (Loricata, Ehrenb.), these two
series appearing to be intimately allied, and often presenting no
other difference beyond that which has been just alluded to.
             REPORT ON ZOOLOGY.  245

Ehrenberg has rejected from the Infusoria several genera
which were formerly classed with these animals ; amongst others
the genus Vibrio, before spoken of as having been thought by
             and Blainville to show an affinity to some of the Entozoa.
DItuaglesos  appears probable from some of his observations, that
the genus Monas and several allied genera are not distinct ani

mal forms, but only the young state of some Kolpodce, Para-
mcecia, &c. This idea has been subsequently adopted by
others*.

  Ehrenberg has since published a second memoir f, in which
he has extended his researches to several points of great interest
in the history of these animals. He has endeavoured to ascer
tain the duration of their existence, as well as the mode of their
development. He has also made some further discoveries with
respect to their structure. He has detected eyes (which before
he had only observed in some of the Rotatoria) in many of the
Polygastrica, and he has found them to furnish distinctive cha
racters of great value in classification. He has fixed a nomen
clature for all the principal external organs and appendages,
which he describes at much length. He has also made some
further remarks on the modifications of the alimentary canal, as
well as on those of the dental system. Since the date of his
first memoir he has found the teeth existing under several di
stinct forms, and even ascertained their presence in some of the
Polygastrica. These discoveries have suggested some new
principles of arrangement.
The above is a condensed abstract of the striking researches
made by this acute observer. We may judge what important
views they open to us, not only in respect to the structure of
these animals, but in respect to what may be the structure of
some other groups, in which also the organization has been con

sidered hitherto as of the most simple kind. It is moreover not
improbable that they may ultimately help ua in determining the

true limits of the animal and vegetable kingdoms, if between
them any fixed limits really exist. A complexity of structure,
of such a nature as is found in no vegetables, has been shown by

Ehrenberg to exist in those forms which were formerly regarded
as very near the boundary ; and although we now know of some
groups of a much more anomalous character than the Infusoria,
it is only extending our researches a little further, and we may

inpossibly be able to detect their real nature. There is one

   · See a paper entitled " Observations upon the Structure and Development of
the Infusoria," by Dr. Rudolph Wagner of Erlangen, in the Edinb. New Phil.
Journ. for October 1832.

   t Berlin Memoirs for 1831.
246 FOURTH REPORT 1834.

quiry in particular which forcibly suggests itself. Is there any
similar complexity of structure, anything approaching to an
alimentary sac or stomach, in those monads, which, it is asserted
by so many observers, become fixed after a time, and transformed
into Conferva ? The determination of this point will go far
towards determining the true situation of a host of ambiguous
genera at present hovering between the two kingdoms, and hav
ing almost equal claims upon the notice of the zoologist and
botanist*.

                     IV. Conclusion.

IIIn the preceding pages have endeavoured, though       fear

very imperfectly, to give a condensed view of the principal re
searches which have been made of late years in Zoology, at least
such as have tended to throw light upon the affinities of animals,

and thereby to advance our knowledge of the natural system. It
was my original intention to have proceeded here to the con
sideration of some other parts of the subject, such as the state
of our knowledge with respect to the actual number of species
in the several classes, and also with respect to the zoology of
particular countries. The former, however, is rendered un
necessary from                             of an article in the Edinh. Neto
                the  laasptpeyaeraarncfe,  expressly devoted to this branch
Philos. Journ.  of

of inquiry. The latter would afford an opportunity of alluding
to several valuable works which have been recently published in
this and other countries, some containing many new and inter
esting forms of importance to the science in general. But the
length to which this Report has already been extended precludes
my entering upon this subject. Considered also in connexion
with that of the geographical distribution of animals,  it would
furnish ample materials for a separate communication.
                                                          I shall
therefore, in conclusion, merely offer a few remarks connected
with the further progress of zoology, and its advancement in
this country in particular.
(1.) Its general progress, viewing the natural system as the
true object of the science, and considering the very imperfect
knowledge we have of this system at present, must clearly de
Ifpend upon the discovery of new forms, and a more thorough in
vestigation of those already known to us.  the former be ne

cessary in order to supply some of the numerous links that are
yet wanting to complete the chain of affinities, the latter is not

    · For further information respecting these anomalous productions, the reader
is referred to the article Arthroidees in the Diet. Class, a" Hist. Nat., and to the

articles Nemazoaires and Zoophytes in the Did. drs Sci. Nat.

  t No. 30, for July 1833, p. 221.
REPORT ON ZOOLOGY.  247

 less so to determine the parts of the system to which these links

Ibelong. But of these two, there can be no doubt the latter is

 what we stand most in need of. question whether we shall not

 be rendering more service to zoology by paying closer attention
to the species we are already acquainted with, than by further
 augmenting the immense collection of uninvestigated forms
which exists now in our cabinets. We have, perhaps, sufficient
 materials on our hands, though not for discovering the whole
 natural system, at least for solving many important problems in
 zoology, were we only better instructed in the nature of these

materials. It has been shown in the course of this Report, that

there are large groups, even whole classes, of which the true
situation and affinities are either not determined at all, or in
volved in much uncertainty, from the imperfect knowledge we
have of their structure and ceconomy ; and in the details of the
system, there is not one class which does not present many
genera, and a vast many more species in this predicament.
 Here then is where the researches of naturalists should be di
rected. Until we shall have more closely analyzed the charac
ters of these groups, and learnt both the method of variation and
relative importance of all the organs, until we shall come to
understand their whole structure as compared with those struc
tures we are already acquainted with, we can neither determine
the affinities of these groups, nor of any others allied to them
which we may hereafter discover.

     Researches of the above nature are, perhaps, best embodied
in monographs. The value of such works has been every day

more and more appreciated since the science has become so
extensive, and since its legitimate object has been better under
stood, especially when they refer to every point in the history
of the group treated of, and when due care is taken first to

ascertain what others have written on the same subject *. Many
excellent monographs fulfilling these conditions already exist,
some of which have been alluded to, and others might have
been had it been allowable to enter so much into the details of
the subject. Nevertheless it would be extremely desirable to
have them multiplied. By the help of such works we may
arrive step by step towards a more complete generalization of
the large number of facts embraced by zoology, at the same time
that we greatly facilitate the researches of other naturalists. But
all inquiries into the structure and ceconomy of animals presup
pose an exact discrimination of species. Without this the most
detailed observations are rendered of little use, and it is the

t See the arlicle Monographic, by Dccandolle, in the Diet, des Sei. Nat.
248 FOURTH REPORT 1834.

want of it which detracts from the value of much that has been

recorded by those who have not sufficiently attended to this
matter. Hence it should be one object of a monograph to in
vestigate species with a view to their exact differences, and to
elaborate the synonyms of those which have been noticed by other
authors. This is especially necessary in some groups, in which
great confusion exists on this head. Cuvier was particularly
sensible of the importance of this step. In his Histoire Naturelle
ties Poissons it is impossible not to be struck with the care
which he has shown in endeavouring to trace every species to its
first describer, and to disentangle its synonymy, before proceeding
to other points in its history. No researches have been spared
which could throw any light on this part of his subject. Every
author has been consulted ; even the most ancient writers on

this branch of zoology he has had recourse to, under the hope of
being able to identify the species they have noticed. And he
has more than once observed in some other of his works, that

there is greater service done to natural history in thus extri
cating from error and confusion the history of old species, than
in publishing and describing new ones.
    But not all have it in their power, from the want of requisite
materials, to furnish a complete monograph of any entire group.
Such persons may, notwithstanding, still contribute greatly to
the advance of zoology by restricting their monograph to the
species in their own neighbourhood : only let such works be
conducted with the same care, the same original observation
and research, which are thought necessary in the productions
just alluded to. Faulty catalogues, or even works of a more

elaborate kind, if merely compiled from other authors, are
utterly worthless. Whereas good local Faunas, or portions of
a Fauna, however limited the district, may be rendered of the
greatest possible value. By studying with scrupulous exactness
the structure and habits, although only of a few species, we
may be able to throw much light upon their natural affinities *,

we may accumulate enough facts to make some approaches

to generalization ourselves; at any rate we are amassing the

best materials for enabling others to do so.
    (2.) With reference to the    further   advancement of zoology
in   this country in particular,              forbear observing, that
                                  I cannot
while there are some branches of the science which are most

sedulously cultivated by us, there are others, and those too such

as, from our insular position, it might be thought would be
among the first to attract our notice, which have for a long

    * Witness the researches of Thompson with respect to the Cirripeda.
                              REPORT ON' ZOOLOGY.                                  249

time  thleainstucdoymopfatrhaetivmealyrinneegIlnevceterdte. braIta.alludIe     to  Ichthyology
and                                                                         need   scarcely say

how small is the number of individuals who have added any
thing recently to our knowledge of the fish even of our own seas,
notwithstanding the opportunities for so doing which daily
present themselves to naturalists resident on the coast. The
                                     noticed. With regard to marine In
vfaecrttehbarsatbae,enI  repeatedly  particularly to the Radiata of Cuvier,
                         refer more

although there is reason to believe that our knowledge of the
Mollusca is far below what it might become by a more diligent
inquiry into these tribes. Excepting the important researches
of Dr. Grant and Mr. Thompson, excepting also a few detached
papers by Drs. Fleming and Coldstream, and more recently by
Dr. Johnston *, we have hardly any original observations with

respect to the radiated animals since the time of Montagu f.
In the several classes of Echinodermata, Acalepha, and Polypi,
it is impossible to say what and how many species are to be
found on our own shores, or what important additions might
not be made to our general knowledge of these groups, as parts
of the natural system, by those whose situation and opportuni
ties afford the means of studying them. As a striking illustra
Jtion of what might be done, it is only necessary to look to the
results obtained by two French naturalists                                  (whose example
deserves to be imitated) during a series of annual excursions
to different parts of their own coast. There is no occasion to
specify these results in detail. Many, of the greatest possible

Iinterest and importance to zoology, have been already alluded
to in former parts of this Report.             may, however, just state
the fact, that on their return from the Chausey Islands, which
were selected one season as the scene of their researches, they
enriched the Paris museum with upwards of 600 species of
marine Invertebrata, of which at least 400 were considered by

them as either entirely new, or before imperfectly understood §.
   While it is thus in our power to do much for this science as

individuals, I conceive it is also in our power to do something
as a nation ; and in no respect more than by encouraging and
promoting expeditions to foreign countries, deputing naturalists

    · This gentleman has lately published a useful paper on the recent Zoo
phytes found on the coast of North Durham, in the Trans, of the Newcastle
Natural History Society.
t 1 should also make an exception of Mr. Graham Dalyell, whose researches
on Scottish Zoophytes were brought forwards at the same meeting as when this

Report was read. These, however, have not yet been published                       in detail.

X     MM. Audouin        and  Edwards.  1828.
§     Cnvier's Aval,     des  Travaux,
250 FOURTH REPORT 1834.

to those parts of the globe which have been least explored, and
affording the means of making known to the public the fruits of
their researches. France has long since set us an example in

undertakings of this nature. In the splendid volumes of zoology-
annexed to the voyages of Captains Freycinet and Duperrey; in
the appropriation of a yearly sum for the support of travelling
naturalists for the benefit of                                      uRnoriyvaallleMdusceeulmeb,ritwyh*icjh
to this circumstance owes            the                                                                    mainly
                                     its                                                                    we see

marks of an anxious                  endeavour on                   the part of  that nation                to up
hold the interests of                this science.                               say that in                no in
                                                                    I will not
stance has anything of the kind been done here. Within these
few years we have seen a work emanate from the British press,
the Fauna Boreali- Americana, under the immediate sanction

and patronage of our own government. I believe, however, it
is the first, wholly devoted to zoology, which ever appeared
under such auspices. And with respect to researches in foreign
                                     have been done for other                     sciences, or for
lands, whatever may                                                              we have effected
this science by private               individuals, I apprehend
very little as a nation which will bear to stand in competition
with what has been done in this way by France, and some other
fnations
   Such
        on                the   Continent which might               Ibe mentioned                 .         ven-
        are                the  hints which, with much               diffidence,
                                                                                             would

* M. D'Orbigny, who has been for these few years past exploring South Ame
rica in the above capacity, has recently returned to Paris with rich and valuable
collections in all departments. He is said to have acquired no less than forty-six
new species of Mammalia alone, a surprising addition when we reflect that the
whole number before                                                                          L'Instit.,     No. 50.)
                                     ykenaorws nagsoc, atrhcealty"  exceeded 1200. (See        stage of     informa
It was observed eight                                               in the present advanced
tion, it cannot                                                     recent species of        Mammalia should
be discovered.1           b"e  expected that many new                 has shown that          even in this class
                                M. D'Orbigny, however,
novelties are far from at an end to reward those who will go in quest of them.
t Perhaps it may not be without its use, to call the attention of the members
of the British Association to the following proposition which was made and
                                     of French savans held at Caen, July 1 833. It was resolved
a"dotopteendcoautrathgee  congress
                            travels  of discovery ; to recommend naturalists and all persons

interesting themselves in the progress of natural history, to organize these
kinds of travels by means of subscriptions, and to direct them towards those parts
of the  globe which have been least                                 See Congrh Scientif. de France,
                                     explored."                      far it would be practicable for
1833,   p. 261. I will not presume   to say how

the British Association to set on foot any such project in this country.
Since this Report was read, Mr. Swainson has published his Preliminary
Discourse on the Study of Natural History, in which he has treated, at some
length, of the Present State of Zoological Science in               Britain as compared                       with
other countries. Without wishing it to be thought                   that I subscribe to                     every

thing stated in that volume, I may refer to Part 4. as containing more ample
details in reference to this inquiry than it was possible for me to enter into.

        1 Bichcno's <lddress to the Zoolog. Club, 1826, p. 5.
                    REPORT ON ZOOLOGY.                                     251

ture to throw out for the further promotion of zoology. I have
only to add, that with reference to the progress it is actually
making in our own country, and the promise which is held out
of uninterrupted advancement, comparing this country, not with
others, but with itself at former periods, there is ground for
much exultation. Looking to what has been effected of late
years, however more striking in some departments than others,
to the important works and memoirs which have appeared
amongst us, and to the channels which have been opened for the
more successful cultivation of this science, it is impossible not
to                                          results.   There is one   institution
in  anticipate the  mwohsitchvaIluahbalvee   hitherto  not spoken,
    particular, of                                     this impulse.  but  which
more than anything has contributed to                                      allude
                                                                        I
to the Zoological Society, founded in 1826. The scale and plan
upon which this Society is conducted are calculated to obtain
for it the highest place amongst institutions of this nature. Its
Museum and Gardens, the latter for the reception of living
animals; its extensive correspondence with naturalists in foreign
countries, by which it has been enabled to acquire some of the
richest and most valuable collections ; are too well known to the

Imembers of this Association to require being dwelt upon more
particularly.       may state, however, that it has recently com
menced the publication of Transactions, of which two parts are
before the public, containing memoirs of the first importance to
zoology, and such as will bear competition with any of those
which have emanated from other quarters.
    But it is not merely in the institution of the Zoological
Society that we trace a rising spirit of inquiry in this branch of
science. We see it in the establishment of Natural History
Societies in almost all the principal towns of England. It is
unnecessary to specify these individually. It is enough to be
able to record the fact of their existence. This circumstance

alone speaks to a more generally diffused taste for zoology,
which      the first step towards the advancement of zoology               it
self.  is  is only necessary to give a proper direction to the             re

       It
searches of these societies, to point out those departments which
need most cultivation, and we may reasonably hope that the time
is not far distant when England will no longer be considered
behind her continental neighbours in this, any more than in
other sciences.
                    253

'MeJapmorbt sonCthhealTlihse,olrayteoFfeCllaopwilloafryTrAintittryacCtioolnle.ge,BCyamthberiRdegve..

In the Report which I had the honour of drawing up last year on
the analytical theory of hydrostatics and hydrodynamics, a di
stinction was made between problems on the common theory of
fluids, and those in which molecular attraction and the repulsion
of heat are explicitly taken account of, and the former kind alone
came under review. That distinction, it was said, depended on the
different bases of calculation, which in the former class of pro
blems are observed facts ; in the other, certain hypotheses, which
can be verified only by a comparison of the results of calculation
with experience. The latter kind of questions are of the more
comprehensive nature, because frequently it is proposed in them
to account for the facts which serve for bases of calculation in

the other class, and an explanation of every such fact must in
clude the explanation of all those that can be mathematically
shown to be dependent on it. The above distinction ought to
be kept in mind when we regard the part which calculation has
to perform in  our  inquiries into the nature and properties of
               not  sufficient to say that analysis serves to classify
matter. It is
facts of observation, and to prove that several which are allied
to each other are consequences of some one observed fact ; for
we have been taught by the labours of Newton, that there are
facts which are not phenomena, the existence of which can only

be proved by calculation. It may now be considered an esta
blished fact that all bodies attract each other proportionally to
their masses, with forces varying inversely as the square of the
distances ; but the evidence for this truth is essentially mathe

matical. So, if the existing theories respecting the internal
constitution of bodies, and the nature of the forces which ema

nate from their molecules, should be established by the progres
sive advance of science, the evidence on which they will rest
must be mathematical. For these reasons, this, the highest de

partment of physical science, may be properly denominated
Mathematical Physics*. The great problem of universal gra
vitation, which is the only one of this class that can be looked
upon as satisfactorily solved, relates to the large masses of the

   · In the former Report I have inadvertently written Physical Mathematics.
It might perhaps be questioned whether these terms be not equally proper ;
but when, in addition to what is said above, the title of Newton s Principia is

recollected, the other would seem to be preferable.
254               FOURTH RBPORT 1834.

universe, to the dependence of their forms on their proper gra
vitation, and the motions resulting from their actions on one
another. The progress of science seems to tend towards the
solution of another of a more comprehensive nature, regarding
the elementary constitution of bodies, and the forces by which
their constituent elements are arranged and held together. Va
rious departments of science appear to be connected with each
other by the relation they have to this problem. The theories
of light, heat, electricity, chemistry, mineralogy, crystallogra

phy, all bear upon it. A review, therefore, of the solutions that
have been proposed of all such questions as cannot be handled
without some hypotheses respecting the physical condition of
the constituent elements of bodies, would probably conduce, by
a comparison of the hypotheses, towards reaching that generali
        to which  the known connexion       of the sciences seems to
zation  This end  is kept in view in the
point.                                    following Report. It hap
pens that with respect to fluids two problems have especially en
gaged the attention of mathematicians, which in a very marked
manner lead to the consideration of molecular forces and the

repulsion of heat, viz. capillary attraction, and the propagation
of motion as affected by the development of heat. The one

refers to fluid in equilibrium, the latter to fluid in motion. It
was my intention originally to embrace both these in one Re
port, but the time required for becoming acquainted with works
on these subjects which have not been very long before the
public, and contain new trains of thought and mathematical in
vestigation, did not allow of preparing the Report, such as it
was intended to be, in time for the present meeting ; and the
matter connected with capillary attraction alone will perhaps be
thought sufficient, and of sufficient interest, to form the subject
of a separate report.
The distinction above stated as applicable to two sorts of

hydromechanical questions, applies equally to statical and dyna
mical questions respecting solids. Some may be treated on the
supposition of perfect rigidity, as is the case in most of the pro
blems that occur in the common elementary treatises on mecha
nics : in others the solids must be supposed to be elastic ; and

if the elasticity be regarded not as a datum of observation, but
as a result of molecular attraction and repulsion, then, to take
account of  it,

                                                                                                                      ;
            certain hypotheses must be made respecting the
nature of these forces and the molecular arrangement, plainly
analogous and intimately related to the like hypotheses with re
spect to fluids. Questions of this kind have of late largely en
gaged the attention of some French mathematicians and the

nature of their theories, and the results of the calculations
              REPORT ON CAPILLARY ATTRACTION.                   255

founded on them, deserve to be brought as much as possible

into notice.
Capillary Attraction.-- The theory of capillary phrenomena
will be best exhibited by tracing historically the principal steps
by which it has arrived at its present state.
Dr. Hooke is among the earliest speculators on the cause of
capillary attraction. He attributed the rise of the fluid to a di
minution of the pressure of the atmosphere within the tube, by
reason of friction against its interior surface. This opinion was
shown to be erroneous when the fluid was found to rise as high
under the receiver of an air-pump as in the open air.
Hauksbee*, whose experiments on the capillary action of
tubes and glass plates have not even yet lost their value, made
the beginning of a true theory of the phenomena, by ascribing
them to the attraction of the tube or plate. Having ascertained
by experiment that the thickness of the matter of the tube made
no difference as to the height to which the fluid ascended, he
saw that the attractive force must emanate entirely from the
particles of the tube situated at its interior surface. He does
not, however, pronounce a decided opinion whether the sphere
of their attraction extends mediately or immediately to the par
ticles of the fluid situated about the axis of the tube ; and he is

in error in supposing that this attractive force, by pressing the
fluid particles perpendicularly against the capillary surface at all
the points with which the fluid is in contact, diminishes the
weight of the suspended column.

   In this last particular the explanation of Hauksbee was
shown to be untrue by Dr. Jurinf, who found by experiment,
that the height to which water would rise in a tube, of which
the portion occupied by the fluid consisted of two cylinders of
Ifdifferent diameters, depended only on the diameter of the upper
cylinder.     the lower cylinder was the larger of the two, as
soon as it was completely filled, the water rose in the upper cy
linder to the same height above the external level as it would
              in a tube uniformly of                      this
have done     was led to ascribe the  the same bore  as"  the    latter.
Hence he                              phenomena to              attrac

tion of the periphery or section of the surface of the tube to
which the upper surface of the water is contiguous and coheres."
On this hypothesis he easily showed that the heights of ascent
in tubes of the same matter are inversely as their radii. For the

    * Physico-Mechanical Experiments. London, 1709. pp. 139--169. Also va
rious papers in the Philosophical Transactions for the years 1711 and 1712.

   t Philosophical Transactions 1718, No. 355, p. 739. An additional paper
on the same subject, Phil. Trans. 1719, No. 363, p. 1083.
256 FOURTH REPORT -- 1834.

quantity of fluid raised being proportional to the raising peri
phery, and consequently to the radius, and being proportional
also to the product of the height and the square of the radius,
it follows that the height is inversely proportional to the radius.
This reasoning is not incorrect, but defective, as we shall pre
sently see. In a postscript to his paper, Dr. Jurin intimates
that the principle of his explanation was not unknown to New
ton and Machin, who, however, do not appear to have sup
ported their views by like experiments. He says also, that the
same two mathematicians suggested to him that what he calls
       periphery of the concave surface of the tube, is in
t"hea  small surface whose base is that periphery, and whose  reality
                                                              height
is the distance to which the attractive power of the glass is

extended." It is sufficiently evident that the theory of capil
lary attraction had engaged the attention of Newton, from
the 31st query in the last edition of his Optics, which was pub
lished a short while previously to the reading of Jurin's paper.

   In this 31st query, Newton is speculating respecting the na
ture of molecular forces, to which he is of opinion that chemical
combinations are owing. In proof of the existence of such
forces, he appeals to several instances of attraction of the kind
which it has been agreed to call capillary attraction or cohesion.
One very singular instance is the suspension of a column of

mercury in a barometer tube, to more than double the height at
which it usually stands, by its adhesion to the top of the tube,

which it leaves only by being considerably shaken. Of the
same kind with this phaenomenon, Newton considers the rise of
water between two parallel plates of glass held at a very small
distance from each other                            fluid. The height
to which the water rises,  "and dipped    in  the  reciprocally propor
                                              be
                           he says,     will

tional to the distance [between the plates] very nearly ; for the
attractive force of the glasses is the same, whether the distance
between them is greater or less, and the weight of the water

drawn up is the same, if the height of it be reciprocally propor
tional to the distance of the glasses." This explanation, though
true, does not prove that Newton had formed any very distinct
idea of the extent of action of the attractive force of the glass,
and the mode in which the water is influenced by it. He asserts,
moreover, that the height to which water rises in a slender glass
pipe, will be reciprocally proportional to the diameter of the
cavity of the pipe, and will equal the height to which it rises
between two planes of glass, if the semidiameter of the cavity
of the pipe be equal to the distance between the planes, or there
abouts." These are not, however, theoretical deductions, but
the results of experiments made before the Royal Society.
            REPORT ON CAPILLARY ATTRACTION.                           257

Hauksbee records an experiment by which it appears that if
a large tube of glass be closely filled with ashes, and one end be
dipped in water, in the space of a week or fortnight the water
will rise within the tube to 30 or 40 inches above the level of

the water   without. Newton, in     n"ottoicinthge  this experiment,   says
correctly,  that the rise is owing                   action only of   those

particles of the ashes which are upon the surface of the elevated
water, the particles which are within the water attracting or re
pelling it as much downwards as upwards."
Another experiment by Hauksbee shows that a drop of wa
ter inserted between two plates inclined to each other at a very
small angle, and touching at their edges, is attracted to the junc
tion of the edges by a force varying inversely as the square of
the distance from it. Newton attempts to account for this phe
nomenon, but unsuccessfully. The true explanation was reserved
for Dr. Young and Laplace.
When two planes inclined at a small angle are immersed in
water, with the line of their junction vertical, the outline of the
water that rises between them is on each plane nearly an hyper
bola, of which the asymptotes are the line of intersection of the
plane with the horizontal surface of the fluid, and the line of

junction of the two planes. Taylor first ascertained this by

measurement*. It is a simple consequence of the law accounted
for by Newton, of the rise of water between parallel planes to a
height inversely proportional to the interval between them ; for
the planes being inclined at a very small angle, opposite elements
of them may be considered parallel.
The early theories of capillary attraction were defective in two
respects : they contained no calculation founded on the hypo
thesis of an attraction sensible only at insensible distances from
the attracting centres, although the existence of such forces was
already recognised, and Newton had given an example of calcu
lation made with reference to force of this nature in the instance

of the passage of light through a dense medium ; and they took
no account of the cohesive attraction of the parts of the fluid
for each other. The necessity of considering the mutual at
traction of the particles of the fluid would seem to be very evi
dent when once the law of attraction, sensible only at insensible

distances, was admitted; for supposing the capillary tube to
attract only the fluid particles at insensible distances from its
surface, a column of water of sensible breadth could not be

suspended except by the intervention of a cohesive power resi-

1834.       · Philosophical Transactions, 1712, No. 336, p. 538.
                                                          s
258 FOURTH REPORT 1834.

dent in the fluid. Yet Clairaut was the first to see the ne

cessity of taking account of the action of the fluid on itself;
and this addition to the theory of capillary attraction is the princi
pal feature of the propositions on this subject introduced, in rather
a cursory manner and beside his main purpose, into his cele
brated treatise on the Figure of the Earth*. After stating the
insufficiency of the method of Jurin, he proceeds to a careful
consideration of all the forces concerned in raising the fluid,
both those due to the tube and those due to the fluid, as well at

the upper part of the column raised, as at the lower extremity
of the tube. His method of considering the forces, which is
stated clearly and illustrated by good diagrams, has been for
the most part followed in succeeding treatises on the same sub
ject. But although Clairaut asserts that the forces concerned in
this problem are sensible only at very small distances, he does
not seem to be aware that the distances must be considered alto

gether insensible. This is not a necessary condition in his view
of the mode in which the forces act ; respecting the law of the
variation of which, as the distances increase, he makes no other
hypothesis than that the function which expresses it is the same
both for the tube and the fluid. He is consequently unable to
prove that the height at which the fluid stands in a capillary

tube is inversely proportional to the diameter.
    By reasoning                                                  Clairaut arrives
at  the following  oconntchleushioynpo:the"sIisf   just named,    of the capillary
                                                  the attraction

tube should be of less intensity than that of the water, provided
it be not so small as half the other, the water will still rise."
This he confirms in another method, the principle of which will
be exhibited by showing as follows, that if the attraction of the
fluid for itself were exactly double that of the tube for the fluid,
the surface of the fluid within the tube would be horizontal, and
consequently on a level with the surface without. Let us sup
pose the fluid surface to be everywhere horizontal, and consider
the equilibrium of a particle in contact with the vertical surface
of the solid, which we will suppose to be plane. Now as the
resultant of the forces acting on the particle must be perpendi
cular to the fluid surface, and therefore vertical, the horizontal

attractions destroy each other. Therefore the horizontal attrac
tion of the solid, which is its total action, is equal to the hori
zontal attraction of the fluid, which is only half what it would
be if the fluid were continued above the particle as it is
                                                                        below,
and consequently placed under the same circumstances
                                                                        of at

    * Tbeorie tie la Figure rfe la Terre. Paris, 1808, pp. 105 -- 128.
             RErOriT ON CAPILLARY ATTRACTION.                                                                259

traction as the solid. Hence the truth of the proposition is
manifest. We shall have occasion in a subsequent part of the
Report to allude to this demonstration.
In 1751, Segner*, aware that Clairaut had written some arti

cles (" articulos quasi episodicos") on capillary attraction, but
not having seen his work, attempted to determine theoretically
the form of the surface of a drop of water resting on a horizontal
plane, on the hypothesis of the attraction of the parts of a fluid
for each other. This is a problem of the same nature as that of
determining the form of the upper surface of the column of fluid
sustained in a capillary tube, neither of which had yet engaged
the attention of mathematicians. Segner begins with admitting
the tenacity of fluids, and ascribes it to the action of an attrac
tive force resident in their constituent molecules, the law of

which he does not pretend to assign, but assumes only that the
sphere of the activity of each particle is of insensible magnitudef-
Setting out with these correct principles, he is led to refer the
shape which the drop assumes to the action of its superficial
particles, which form, as it were, a sheet encompassing                                          it,
                                                                                                            is
                                                                                                             and by
their tenacity counteract the tendency of the drop to spread in
obedience to the force of gravity. The sequel of this essay

not equally successful. In estimating the superficial tension
considered as depending on the curvature at each point of the
surface of the drop, the author commits an error in taking ac
count only of the curvature of the sections made by vertical
planes through its axis, and neglecting the effect of the curva
ture in planes perpendicular to these. He intimates in note
at the end of the essay that he became aware of some defect in                                               a
                                                                                                                       a
his theory.
   considerable time after the theory of Segner was published,
A

                       a
Monge asserted, at the end of memoir! on certain effects of the
aflpupidasre, ntthaatttr"abcytiosnupapnodsinrgeptuhlesioandhoefrensmceallofbothdeiespafrltoicaletisngofonit a
fluid to have sensible effect only at the surface itself, and in
the direction of the surface, would be easy to determine the
curvature of the surfaces of fluids in the neighbourhood of the
solid boundaries which contain them that these surfaces would
                                      ;

be lintearice, of which the tension, constant in all directions,

·  "CGomenmeernatt.imSoacu. teBmeg.spGaotiultming.illttoidrns. phaeArnicnu.m,17i5n1t,rai.p.301.
                                                                                         quod
tt                                                                                               particular  activitas
                        I'
consistit, adeo exiguum est, ut nullo adhuc sensu percipi potuerit." (p. 303.)
Segner appears to have been the first to apply to capillary phenomena mathe
matical calculation founded on this hypothesis.
       Memoires de Acad, det Sciences, An 1787, p. 506.
2G0 FOURTH REPORT -- 1H34.

would be everywhere equal to the adherence of two particles ;
and the phenomena of capillary tubes would then present no
thing which could not be determined by analysis." The process
here indicated Monge did not follow up by mathematical calcu
lations. The main purpose of the memoir, from which the above
sentence is extracted, is to give an explanation of the apparent

attraction and repulsion observed to take place between small

Ifsubstances when they float near each other on the surfaces of

fluids. These phenomena are of three kinds. (1.) two float
ing bodies are each surrounded by a depression of the fluid sur
face, and are separated at first by a small interval, they will
move towards each other as if mutually attracted. (2.) When
t he fluid rises up around them, they will in this case also appear
to be attracted when brought near each other. (3.) When one
is surrounded by an elevation of the fluid, and the other by a
depression, they will appear to be mutually repelled. The motion
of the bodies towards each other in the first case, is owing to the
circumstance that the depression of the fluid about one is in
creased on their mutual approach by the depression about the
other, at those parts of each that are neighbouring ; which occa
sions an unequal hydrostatic pressure against each of the bodies
in the horizont al direction, the pressure being greatest where
the depression is least. This explanation was first given by
IfMariotte. To explain the second phenomenon, Monge reasons
as follows.  a plate of any substance be dipped with its plane
vertical in fluid, the fluid will rise by capillary attraction on
each side of it. The surface of the raised water, being stretched
like a chain, will draw the plate in a horizontal as well as verti
     vdeirrteiccatlionp,osbiutitone.quallIyf                     that it will remain in
cal                                           on both sides, so   of the same matter,
its                                           now another plate

and exactly alike circumstanced, be brought near the other, the
fluid, it is well known, will rise between them. The total quan
tity of fluid raised above the ordinary level will remain the same
as if the actions of the two plates did not interfere with each
other, because the raising forces will be the same. But the

weight of water raised between the plates, being suspended from
a diminished quantity of fluid surface, the superficial tension
within will become greater than that without, and will more
than counterbalance the latter. The plates will consequently be
drawn together. The third phenomenon is explained by saying,
that when a body, surrounded by an elevation of the fluid, is
brought near one surrounded by a depression, there is occasioned
a diminution of depression on the side of the latter nearest the
other, and a consequent inequality of hydrostatic pressure, the
excess being on the side where the depression is least. This
            REPORT ON CAPILLARV ATTRACTION.                       261

body will consequently be repelled from the other. More ex
act explanations of these phaenomena have since been given by
Young, Laplace, and Poisson, but not materially differing in
principle from the above.
We ought now to notice the labours of Dr. Young in the theory
of capillary attraction, as being next in order of time ; but as his
            on this subject was published  "oTnrleyaatissheoortn
paper       more than a year) before the                          interval (some

tthioinng"                                                         Capillary Ac
            by Laplace, and as it contains an idea which is not in
Laplace's theory, and which may be considered an additional
step towards the complete explanation of the phenomena, it
will be convenient to deviate from the historical order for the

purpose of exhibiting more clearly the progressive steps by which
Ithe theory of capillary attraction has arrived at its existing state.

  will, therefore, now endeavour to give some notion of the prin
ciples of Laplace's theory, and of the extent to which they will

explain phsenomena.
   This essay was published in 1806, as a supplement to the

tenth book of the Me"canique Celeste. It contains explanations
more exact than had hitherto been given of the several facts we
have had occasion to mention in the foregoing part of the Report,
and of others in addition to these : and the explanations are sus
tained throughout by mathematical calculations. The hypotheses
of the theory are, that the fluid is perfectly incompressible ; that
there is as well an attraction of the particles of the fluid for each
other, as a mutual attraction between the particles of the fluid
and the particles of the tube, and that these forces are sensible
only at insensible distances from the attractive centres. From

these principles a fundamental equation relative to the upper
surface of fluid raised by capillary action, is derived by a process
of the following nature.
Conceive an infinitely slender canal, of uniform transverse
section, to be drawn from any point of the fluid surface, sup
posed to be concave by reason of the capillary action, to a point
of the horizontal surface which is unaffected by the same cause.
Let the canal be everywhere beyond the sphere of the attraction
of the solid from which the capillary action proceeds. Suppose
its two ends to terminate perpendicularly to the surfaces, and to
be rectilinear for a distance from each of them not less than a

certain small quantity A, the extent of the sphere of activity of
the fluid's attraction : it is proposed to determine the condition

of equilibrium of this canal. It is plain that any point of it
distant by more than X from its extremities will be attracted
equally in all directions. The case is different with all points
situated within the distance A from either of the extremities.
262 FOURTH REPORT-- 1834.

The attraction of the surrounding fluid on the points of the
canal so situated at the extremity which terminates in the hori
        scuarnfaalced, owwnilwl aprrdods.uceIfa              which Laplace calls K,
zontal                                            pressure,
on the                                           a tangent   plane be drawn at the
other extremity, the fluid below this plane will produce an equal
pressure on the canal at this end, and similarly directed. These
two pressures acting in opposite directions along the canal, will
destroy each other by reason of the incompressibility of the
fluid. There will remain the attraction of the fluid between the
curve surface and the tangent plane. This produces a pressure
directed to the centres of curvature of the point where the canal
ends, and, as the calculation shows, proportional to the sum of
the greatest and least curvatures at that point ; for, in fact, the
quantity of matter between the curve surface and tangent plane,
taken within the small distance X from the point of contact,
varies in the same proportion, and to this quantity of matter
the total attracting force is proportional. Opposed to the pres
sure thus arising is the effect of gravity on the whole canal in
producing pressure in the direction of its length, which effect,
it is known from the common principles of hydrostatics, is
equal to the weight of a column of the fluid of the same trans
verse section as the canal, and whose height is the elevation of
one end of the canal above the horizontal plane in which the
other is situated. Calling this elevation z, the greatest and least
radii of curvature at the point of the curved surface under con
/l \sideration R and R', and the density of the fluid g, we shall have
                         H1

   This is the fundamental equation spoken of above. It does
not contain, as we perceive, the quantity K, which Laplace sup
poses to be expressive of the force that causes the suspension
before mentioned (p. 256) of mercury in the tube of a barometer
to a height two or three times greater than that due to the at
mospheric pressure. He thinks also that on this quantity de
pends the forces which produce cohesion and chemical affinities.
The left side of the equation, expressing the pressure that arises
from the action of the small quantity of matter situated between
the curve surface and the tangent plane, and circumscribed by the
tsaucrtfacaendofratdhieussph\,erme uosft  activity whose centre is the point of con

                                          be exceedingly small compared to K.
The above equation cannot be generally integrated ; but in
the case in which it belongs to a surface of revolution the axis
of which is vertical, as, for instance, when the capillary tube is
cylindrical with a circular base, an integral is obtained which
           REPORT ON CAPILLARY ATTRACTION.                    263

conducts to the inference, that the surface of the fluid approaches
so much the nearer to that of a sphere as the diameter of the
tube is smaller. Hence it immediately follows that the surfaces
in tubes of different small diameters will be similar portions of
spherical surfaces, if at their juncture with the interior surfaces
of the tubes they make with them the same angle. This angle
will appear to be independent of the diameter of the tube, from
the consideration that the extent of the sphere of activity of the
attraction of the tube is altogether imperceptible ; so that even
in a tube of very small bore, we may regard the action of the
cylindrical surface on the superficial fluid elements contiguous
it,                          were plane*. Hence  = the radius
    isto the same as  if     h                 b, if
                         it
                                    a                 b

                                                                g

                                                                           §
                                                                            h.
of the fluid surface, and its mean altitude above the horizon

tal level of the exterior fluid, then = R' = and -- =
                                       is R
But in different tubes the surfaces of the fluid being similar seg
ments of spherical surfaces, evidently varies as the diameter
of the tube. Therefore          h    varies inversely as this diameter.
                                    b

Such the explanation according to Laplace's theory of what
may be looked upon as the principal phenomenon of capillary

attraction.                                                   known

  If the surface of the interior fluid were convex, as
                                                 a

                                                        it

                                                               is

                                                                    if
to be when capillary glass tube dipped in mercury, then
           a
                   a
we suppose for moment all below the tangent plane at any
point to be fluid, the effect of the attraction on canal terminat
ing at this point perpendicularly to the surface, will only be
just equal to the action of the fluid on the other
where terminates at the exterior horizontal level.            eIxftnreomw itwye,
       it

subtract the fluid between the tangent plane and the surface,

which tends to draw the canal upwards, the resulting inequality
of action must be counterbalanced by the hydrostatic pressure
arising from depression of the fluid in the tube. The mean
depth to which the fluid will be depressed may be shown, as ina

the case of concavity, to vary inversely as the diameter of the

tube.

From all this reasoning Laplace concludes that the attraction
of capillary tubes influences the elevation or depression of the
fluids they inclose, only by determining the inclination of the
fluid surface to the contiguous surface of the tube, on which in
clination the concavity or convexity of the fluid surface depends,
as well as the magnitude of its radius. He consequently speaks

· M. Gauss, who first remarked that the reason here assigned
                                       is
                                                                                       by

                                                                                                       a
                                                              Laplace
for the constancy of the angle of contact vague and insufficient, has given a
more satisfactory demonstration, which we shall have occasion to speak of in
subsequent part of the Keport.
261 FOURTH REPORT 1834.

of the concavity or convexity as the principal cause of the phae-
nomenon of elevation or depression, a mode of speaking to
which some have objected apparently because it does not expli
citly point to the nature of the forces to which the observed ef
fects are due. This manner, however, of referring capillary ef
fects to the concavity or convexity of the fluid surface, is con
venient in the explanation of phaenomena ; for we may say in
general, that wherever the fluid is bounded by a curve surface,
it is acted upon at each point by a force tending from the surface
towards the centres of the curvature at that point.
In this way Laplace explains the well known fact, that a drop
of water put in a slender conical tube, having both ends open
and its axis horizontal, will move towards the smaller end. The

surface of the drop will be concave towards both ends of the
tube, but with a greater curvature on the side directed to the
smaller end than on the other. The drop will therefore be urged
by two forces in opposite directions ; but the forces being pro
                                                   will be
portional to the curvatures,  the greater   force           that which
urges it towards the vertex   of the cone.         a drop   of mercury
                                              If
were inserted, its surface would be convex towards both ends

of the tube, and the greater curvature would again be at that
part of the drop which is nearer the smaller end. Therefore, of
the two forces directed from the curved surfaces to the centres
of curvature, that will prevail which urges the drop towards the

base of the cone. It follows from the constancy of the angle of
contact, that the surfaces of the two ends of the drop, whether
it be of mercury or water, are similar segments of spherical sur
faces. Their curvatures are therefore inversely as their distances
from the vertex of the cone ; and the difference of the curvatures,
to which the difference of the forces which urges the drop is pro
portional, will vary inversely as the product of these distances,

if the length of the column into which the drop is formed be
given, that is, this length being small, nearly as the square of
the distance inversely of the middle of the drop from the vertex
of the cone.
As the fundamental equation obtained above admits of being
successfully treated whenever the surface of the fluid contained
in a capillary space is one of revolution, it may be employed to
determine the capillary action which takes place between two
cylindrical surfaces having a common axis and distant from each
other by a small interval ; for the surface of the inclosed fluid
will evidently be in this case a surface of revolution. The re
sult of the analytical calculation is, that the fluid will be raised in
Ifthis space to the same height as in a tube of which the radius is
equal to the interval between the cylindrical surfaces.     the
         REPORT ON CAPILLARY ATTRACTION.                           #6.5

radii of the two cylinders be supposed infinitely great, we have
the case of fluid inclosed between two vertical and parallel planes
very near each other. The same result still holds good ; and thus
the experimental fact cited by Newton in his 31st query re
ceives a theoretical explanation.
The case in which the fluid is raised or depressed between
vertical parallel planes admits of being treated independently ;
and this Laplace has also done. The upper surface of the raised
or depressed fluid is that of a common cylinder when the interval
between the planes is small, and the elevation or depression is
directly proportional to the curvature.
These propositions being proved with respect to the action of
parallel planes, we may apply to the case of a drop inserted be
tween two planes inclined to each other at a very small angle,
reasoning analogous to that applied to a drop inserted into a
cone of small vertical angle. The force by which the drop is
urged, is shown, as before, to be inversely proportional to the
square of the distance from the juncture of the planes. We
have already mentioned that this law was obtained experimen
tally by Hauksbee for the case in which a drop of water is in
serted between planes. He arrived at it by observing the incli
nation the planes must have to the horizon, that the effect of
gravity may just counteract the capillary action by which the
drop of water is drawn to the line of their junction. The sine
of the inclination, to which the resolved part of gravity is pro
portional, was found to vary for the same drop when in equili
brium, inversely as the square of the distance of its middle point
from the line of junction. Laplace's calculation, besides verify

ing this experimental result, further informs us, that if the two
planes form with each other an angle equal to half the vertical
angle of a cone which incloses a drop of the same fluid, the in
clination to the horizon of the plane which bisects the angle
formed by the two planes ought to be the same as that of the
axis of             i"n   order that the drop may      remain in
brium ;  the cone,       the sine of the inclination  of the axis  equili
         and that                                                  of the

cone to the horizon, is nearly equal to a fraction whose deno
minator is the distance of the middle of the drop from the vertex
of the cone, and numerator is the height to which the fluid is
raised in a cylindrical tube, the diameter of which is equal to that
Ifof the cone at the middle of the drop."

       fluid be raised by capillary action between two vertical and
parallel planes, they will be drawn towards each other. The
same thing will happen if the fluid be depressed between them.
These two facts, known by experience, were in a great measure
explained, as we have seen, by Monge. The theory of Laplace
2G6 FOURTH REPORT -- 1834.

not only accounts for the attraction of the planes towards each
other, but gives the measure also of the pressures which urge
them. By an exact consideration of all the forces concerned in
these phaenomena, he finds that when the fluid is raised between
the planes, each plane experiences, from without to within, a
pressure equal to that of a column of the contained fluid, of
which the height is half the sum of the elevations above the or
dinary level, of the points of contact of the interior and exterior
surfaces of the fluid with the plane, and whose base is the part
of the plane comprised between two horizontal lines drawn
through these points. The value of the pressure is similarly
stated when the fluid is depressed between the planes. Hence,
neglecting the small exterior elevation or depression, the pres
sure varies as the square of the elevation or depression between
the planes, and consequently inversely as the square of the in

terval between them.

   Laplace also enters into a consideration of the proposition

first announced by Clairaut, viz. that if the law of the attraction
of the matter of the tube upon the fluid, differs only by its in
tensity from the law of the attraction of the fluid on itself, the
fluid will be raised so long as the intensity of the former of these
                             choanlfcloufsitohnes*in. tenIsfittyheofotnhee  other. He
attractions   surpasses the                                                 intensity be
arrives at   the following

Ifexactly half the other, there is neither elevation nor depression.

    the intensity of the attraction of the tube for the fluid be in
sensible, the fluid will be depressed,
will be convex and hemispherical.       aIfndthtehetwdeoprienstseendsitsiuersfacbee
equal, the surface of the elevated fluid will be concave and hemi
spherical. When the intensity of the attraction of the tube is
the greater of the two, the fluid, by attaching itself to the tube,
forms an interior tube to which alone the capillary elevation is
due, and which being of the same matter as the raised fluid, acts
with the same intensity, and causes the surface to be still con
cave and that of a hemisphere. This appears to be the case with
water and oils in capillary glass tubes. M. Haiiy found by ex-

· These conclusions appear to be correct, but the reasoning of Laplace in
this part of his theory is liable to a serious objection, first pointed out by
jDr. Young.

in which j'

tion of the
saonldFidogfroairnrethaeQrrte. fsclpo1ues2idc,(t,*ihv-aee--nlyodb6tt)aphier=nospflou(t2rhidt?eio' ffn--ooarllloeit)wtsoeiKnltfgh;seine2iqn6ut,eantKisointii,essequoafl  the  attrac
                                                                                                                                                                         to  the re

sultant of the molecular attractions on a superficial particle of all the fluid
particles within the sphere of its activity ; but q the resultant of the attractions
of only a portion included between a tangent plane and
the particle. This equation, therefore, could scarcely  surface  passing                                                                                                through
                                                        be true  unless
                                                                                                                                                                        2 f' = q.
The source of the error that occurs here will be elucidated as we go on.
          UErOUT ON CAPILLARY ATTRACTION.          267

pcriment that the concave surface of these fluids differed little

from that of a hemisphere*. It would seem from this theory that
the intensity of the solid's attraction for the fluid must exceed
that of the fluid for itself, in order that the fluid may wet the

solid.

   The preceding are the principal facts which Laplace explains
in his first published Treatise on Capillary Action. The expla
nations of some few others are added by way of corollaries at the
end of the Treatise. One of these, which serves to exhibit the

effect of the convexity of the fluid surfaces, may be mentioned

here.

  If a capillary tube be plunged to a small depth in water, and
then, with its lower extremity closed by the finger, be taken out,
on withdrawing the finger the fluid will be seen to sink in the
tube, and to form a drop at the lower end. But when it has
ceased to descend, the height at which it rests above the extre
mity of the tube is always greater than the elevation due to ca
pillary action when the tube is just dipped in the fluid. The
reason of this excess is, that the effect of the convexity of the
drop, which takes place in the upward direction, is added to the
effect of the concave surface within the tube.

   Hence it follows that if a slender siphon with unequal arms
be filled with water, when the fluid is just on the point of run
ning from the longer arm it has to overcome the capillary
actions due to the concavity formed at the extremity of the
shorter arm and the convexity at that of the longer arm ; and
unless the difference of the lengths of the arms be greater than
the sum of the lengths of the fluid columns which these two
actions will sustain at the respective extremities, the fluid will

not run.
   The theory of Dr. Young
lary tubes is contained in an  "reEsspseacytinogn  the phenomena of capil     '
                                                   the Cohesion of Fluidstj'

read before the Royal Society, December 20, 1804, and inserted
in the second volume of his Lectures on Natural Philosophy.
His views resemble those advanced by Segner and Monge.
Like these two mathematicians, he considers the phenomena to
be referable to the cohesive attraction of the superficial particles
of the fluids, in so far as it gives rise to a uniform tension of

   · It would be difficult to decide by experiment whether the surface be nearly

or exactly a hemisphere, because when the angle of contact is very small, the
line of contact is not readily discernible. The method of determining the angle
of contact by reflection, proposed by Dr. Young in his Lectures on Natural
Philosophy, (vol. ii. p. G66,) is preferable to measuring the sagitta of the sur
face, which was the method adopted by Haiiy.

   f Philosophical Transactions, 1805, p. 05.
268 FOURTH REPORT-- 1834.

the surface. He shows, moreover, how this uniformity of ten
sion may be a consequence of ulterior principles.
   The course of reasoning Dr. Young pursues in his essay is as
follows. He begins with making two assumptions : first, that
the tension of the fluid surface is uniform ; secondly, that at the
juncture of a fluid surface with the surface of                      asusrofalicde,st.here"  is an
aanpgplreo,p"rihaetesaaynsg,le"offorcognltaascst   between the two                           This
                                                  and water, and in
                                                                     all cases where a

solid is perfectly wetted by a fluid, is evanescent : for glass and
mercury, it is about 140° for common temperatures, and when
the mercury is moderately clean." He shows next that a theory
founded on these two hypotheses will explain various capillary
phsenomena. And lastly, at the end of the essay, derives the hy
potheses from ulterior physical principles. It is in this last
part that Dr. Young's theory contains views not to be found in
                         theory. Following the order                 which the author
aandyoptps,revIiowusill  endeavour first to exhibit the               way in which his

theIotriys  accounts for  pheenomena.             that               if a  curve             line
            known from    mechanical principles
be uniformly stretched, the normal force it exerts at any point
in a direction tending to the centre of curvature is directly as

the curvature. The same will be the case with a surface, if it

Ifbe cylindrical, and therefore curved only in one direction.
the surface be spherical or like that about the vertex of an ellip
tic paraboloid, the curvatures in directions at right angles to
each other will have independent effects. Consequently the
normal force in this case will vary as the sum of the curvatures :
and as, from a known property of curve, surfaces, this sum is the
same for all perpendicular directions, the normal forcewill bepro-
portional to the sum of the greatest and least curvatures. Hence
because this force, applied at the surface, is employed in de
pressing the fluid when the surface is convex, and elevating it
when concave, (for it is always directed to the centres of curva
ture,) it may be shown in the usual manner, that by reason of
the action of gravity, the force at each point is proportional to
the distance of that point from the ordinary level of the fluid.
By reasoning of this kind, Dr. Young is conducted to the rela
tion between the vertical ordinate and curvature of the surface,

which is expressed by the fundamental equation of Laplace's
theory. As both theories also admit the constancy of the angle
made by the fluid surface with that of a given solid at the junc
ture of the two, it is plain that the explanation of phsenomena
must be virtually the same in both. In fact, before the publi
cation of Laplace's theory Dr. Young had accounted for most of
         REPORT ON CAPILLARY ATTRACTION.        269

the facts whose explanations according to that theory have al
ready been exhibited, and his mode of accounting for them dif
fers not in any essential respect from that of Laplace, but chiefly
in a scrupulous avoidance of the use of mathematical symbols.

It will therefore be unnecessary to adduce the explanations of
any of these facts given by Dr. Young ; we will only advert to

some applications contained in his treatise which do not occur
in the other.

    Having first considered the rise of water in capillary tubes,
he proceeds to find the weight of water raised by the horizontal
surface of a solid elevated from the horizontal surface of a fluid,
and to determine the relation between the height of ascent in a
given tube to the height of adhesion ; that is, the height of ele
vation above the ordinary level just when the fluid detaches it
self from the horizontal surface of the solid. The fluid is
supposed to wet the solid. Hence as the fluid surface, being
horizontal where it is in contact with the solid, has no tendency
by its tension to depress, the weight of water raised is very
nearly equal to the hydrostatic pressure of a column of water
standing on the raising surface and equal in height to the height
of adhesion. This pressure he finds to be 50J- grains on a square
Ifinch, agreeing very nearly with the result of experiments by
Taylor.  the raising surface be small, for instance a disc of
an inch in diameter, the curvature of the horizontal sections of
the raised fluid, which are convex outwards, will have a con

trary effect to the curvature of the vertical sections which are
concave, and will consequently
raised. This also is confirmed   diminish the   we"ighTht eofhefilguhidt
                                by experiment.
of ascent in a tube of given bore varies in the duplicate ratio of
the height of adhesion."
The depression of mercury in capillary tubes is next considered,
and the author does not confine himself to the case in which the
surface of the mercury is spherical, which is true only when the
diameter of the tube is very small. In tubes less than half an
inch in diameter, the surface is very nearly that of an oblate
spheroid. The depressions for different tubes calculated theo
retically, are compared with a table of experiments made by
Lord Charles Cavendish to ascertain the depression of mercury
in different barometer tubes.

   The height of adhesion of mercury to glass, and to substances it,

which it is capable of wetting, such as gold, silver, tin, &c, as

well as the thickness at which a portion of mercury will spread
out on glass and on substances wholly incapable of attracting
are quantities all determinable by this theory, and being cal
270 FOURTH REPORT -- 1834.

diluted are found to be sufficiently accordant with the same

quantities determined experimentally.                 result :  " The linear
   The theory conducts also to the following
dimensions of similar drops of different fluids depending from
a horizontal surface vary in the same ratio as the heights of
ascent of the respective fluids against a vertical surface, or as
the square roots of ascent in a given tube."

   In explaining the instances of apparent attractions and re
pulsions treated of by Monge, Dr. Young shows that in the two
cases of attraction, the force which urges the planes towards
each other varies inversely as the square of the interval between
them, because it varies once inversely as the distance on account
of the increase of curvature of the fluid surface as the interval

diminishes, and again inversely as the distance by reason of the
increase, proportional to the ascent of the fluid, of the surface on
which the capillary action is exerted. With respect to the
third case, that of                        which is             in Laplace's
treatise, he remarks,  trheaptuls"iotnh,e  repulsion  omitted   and dry body
                                                      of a wet

does not appear to follow the same proportion, for it by no
means approaches to infinity on the supposition of perfect con
tact : its maximum is measured by half the sum of the elevation
and depression on the remote sides of the substances, and as the
distance increases, this maximum is only diminished by a quan
tity which is initially as the square of the distance."
The strong cohesion of two solids produced by the interposi
tion of a small quantity of a fluid, which wets them, between
their plane surfaces, is sufficiently accounted for by the great
curvature, arising from the proximity of the surfaces, of the
outer boundary of the interposed fluid, which is everywhere con
cave like the rim of a pulley. This curvature corresponds to a
force which would be capable of sustaining a great elevation of
the fluid ; but in this instance the force is not exerted in sup
porting the fluid, but acts by reason of the mutual attraction
         the solid and fluid,                                   of the solids,
between                        on the plane surfaces            immersed in
drawing  them together. If     the solids were wholly
the fluid, no such cohesion would take place. On the same prin

ciple, if fluid be interposed between two solids which it is quite
incapable of wetting, so that its boundary is everywhere convex,
the force due to the convexity, being directed inwards, would

present a strong opposition to any force tending to make the

planes approach each other.
After showing, in the manner exhibited above, that a theory
founded on the two assumptions of a uniform tension of curved
fluid surfaces, and a constant angle of contact of the surface of
REPORT ON CAPILLARY ATTRACTION.  271

a given fluid with that of a given solid, will explain various ca
pillary phenomena, Dr. Young proceeds to derive these laws
from ulterior physical principles. To account for the first he
reasons as follows. The repulsive force which appears to act
uncontrolled in aeriform bodies, exists also in fluids and solids.
In these it is counteracted by a cohesive force. These forces in
fluids are so balanced, that they allow the particles to move freely
in all directions. In solids the cohesion is accompanied by a
force opposed in greater or less degree to all lateral motion, and
independent, as he supposes, of the cohesive force. He considers
it simplest to regard the cohesive force as nearly or perfectly con
stant in its magnitude throughout the minute distance to which
it extends, and its apparent variation to be owing to the variation
of the repulsive force, which diminishes with the increase of the
distance. In the internal parts of a fluid, the two forces hold
the particles in equilibrium ; but wherever the surface is curved
or angular, it would be found by collecting the effect produced
on a given particle at the surface, by all the particles contiguous
to it and lying within the sphere of its proper activity, that on
the above hypothesis respecting the relative variation of these
forces, the cohesion must necessarily prevail over the repulsion.
The particle will consequently be urged in the normal direction
towards the centres of curvature of the point at which it is situ
ated, whether the surface be concave or convex ; and reasons are
adduced by the author for concluding that the force which urges
it is proportional to the curvature, if single, or to the sum of
the curvatures in rectangular directions, and consequently indi
cates, as is known from Mechanics, a uniform superficial ten
sion. The reasoning by which he shows this need not be in
troduced here. Suffice it to say, that this result might be obtained
by an analysis precisely the same as that which Laplace has
employed at the beginning of his capillary theory, in calculating

the attraction experienced by a superficial particle on the suppo
sition of forces sensible only at insensible distances. Laplace
makes no hypothesis respecting the law of force, excepting that
it is wholly attractive. The mathematical calculation would

remain the same, if the force were supposed partly attractive

and partly repulsive, provided the attractive force decreased less
rapidly with the increase of distance than the repulsive, and be
came the greater of the two before it ceased to be of sensible
magnitude. With this alteration* in Laplace's theory, it would

    · This modification of the theory is pointed out by its author in a note at
p. 122 of the Bulletin de la Societe Philomatique, An 1819.
272 FOURTH REPORT -- 1834.

differ in no essential respect from that of Dr. Young, as far as

regards the principles on which the equation relative to the ca
pillary fluid surface is obtained; and neither possesses an advan
tage over the other in the explanation of phenomena. But the
way in which the latter mathematician accounts on physical
principles for the constancy of the angle of contact, (which is
the other hypothesis of his theory,) though incomplete, is more
satisfactory than anything we meet with on the same subject
in Laplace's treatise. The following is his reasoning on this

point.
When the surface of a fluid is free, or exposed to a gas, the
superficial tension arising from the cohesive power of the par
ticles acts with full force to produce pressure directed inwards,
from which, in fact, arises the tendency observable in small
fluid masses to assume a globular form. This contractile power

is altered by contact with a solid surface. For instance, if a
cube of water had one of its halves congealed, its other proper
ties remaining the same, the other half would retain its form,
because the tendency to contract at the edges contiguous to the
solid, would be just counteracted by an equal and contrary action
of the solid ; and at all other points of contact, the contractile
force would vanish for                                        any point in the
interior of the fluid.   Itfhethesamsoelidreawsoenre  as at  smaller attractive

                                                        of

power than the fluid, the tendency to contract, and consequently
the tension of the surface in contact, would be proportional only
                     of                             or to         difference of
to the difference  the   the attractive    forces,  law of   the  forces be the
the densities of         solid and fluid,                    the
                                           if the
same for both*. The portion of the solid surface which is con
tiguous to, but not touched by, the fluid, will act on the fluid par
ticles situated at the angle of contact, just as the fluid superficies
itself does, but in a different degree according to the difference
of density. Hence, the conditions of equilibrium are to be sought
of three forces acting on a particle at the angle of contact, one
in the direction of the surface of the fluid only, another in that
of the common surface of the fluid and solid, and the third in

Ifthe opposite direction along the exposed surface of the solid.
g and g' be the densities respectively of the fluid and solid, and
Ifthe first force be k g, the second will be k (g -- g'), and the third
k g\    then 0 be the angle of contact which the free surface of
the fluid makes with its surface of contact, the first force re-

   · Dr. Young adduces some facts relating to the spreading of the drops of oil
on water in support of the proportion here assigned. (Lectures on Nat. Phil.,
vol. ii. p. 659.)
           REPORT ON CAPILLARY ATTRACTION.                                                                          273

solved in the direction of the solid surface, will give kg cos 8,
which is counteracted by k g' -- k (g -- g'), the difference of the
other two forces. Hence it follows that

                             g' = gCOSa-- .

When 6 -- 90°, 2 §* = g, as Clairaut found. The preceding
theory is deficient in not informing us how the other resolved
portion of the tension of the fluid, viz. k g sin
                                                   counteracted.
           is is

                                           it
                                                                                            fl,
                                                                              is
                                                                                                                 ;
The essay of Dr. Young, as appears in the second volume
of his Natural Philosophy, contains by way of appendix some
remarks and strictures on Laplace's theory, the results of which
are shown to be readily derivable from his own theory but an
            raised against its principles on the ground that no
objection  taken of a repulsive molecular force. We have al
account

ready seen in what way this objection may be obviated without
affecting the results of Laplace's theory, or materially altering
the analysis. Another objection urged by him, to which allusion

has been made before (p. 266), lies against the reasoning, and not

the principles, of Laplace's theory. In determining the conditions
of equilibrium of fluid particle situated at the angle of contact,
           it,

                      a
Laplace takes account only of the attractions of the solid and
fluid upon omitting the consideration of the variation of pres
sure occasioned by these forces as well near the free surface of
the fluid as near that in contact with the solid. The error to
which this omission leads will be understood by reverting to
the reasoning by which was shown (p. 258), according to Clai-
                         it

raut's method, that when the attractive force of the fluid double
that of the solid, the capillary surface will be horizontal. Theis
same kind of reasoning as that employed to show that the horiis
zontal attractions in this case counterbalance each other, would

also prove that the particle at the angle of contact urged ver
tically downwards, by only half the force with which another
particle at the fluid surface situated beyond the sphere of the
attraction of the solid, urged in the same direction. The
if

                                       is
horizontality of the fluid surface may nevertheless be maintained
we consider that the variation of pressure near the surface,
due to the molecular attractions, will not be the same at the sur

face in contact with the solid as at the free surface, by reason of
the solid's attraction. Had Laplace taken account of this cir
cumstance, as the principles of his theory required him to do,
notwithstanding the supposition of incompressibility, he would
have obtained an equation equivalent to that which expresses
above the relation between and instead of the faulty equation
                             g'
                                         g,
                             tIn fact, M. Gauss and M. Poisson, as
of art. 12 of his treatise.
    1834.
274 FOURTH REPORT -- 1834.

we shall afterwards see, have obtained in different manners such

an equation on the supposition of absolute incompressibility.
The addition to Dr. Young's essay contains also a more care
ful investigation than he had given before of the depression of
mercury by capillarity in barometer tubes of diameters not ex
ceeding half an inch. He obtains two formulae, one for the
central depression, the other for the difference between the cen
tral and marginal depressions. The diameter in inches being d,
                      f.or         -015 d
and,  e  ,.     put.
                                  ^ .lfi,
         being

      the first formula is --,                e -- 14 . 5 e3,

      and the other,                     5 d + 100 «f
                                  15 (5(/ + 100da) + 18-

The next work that we have to notice is Laplace's Supple
ment to the Theory of Capillary Action, in which the object
of the author is to perfect the theory and extend its applications,
to confirm it by additional comparisons with experiments, and
to present it under a new point of view. This work is prefaced
by a discussion relative to the fundamental equation of the
theory, which is shown to be derivable as well from the condi
tion of the perpendicularity of the resultant of the forces to the
fluid surface as from that of the equilibrium of canals, the equa
tion obtained by the former method being the differential of
that given by the other. Here also is deduced, from the funda
mental equation, an expression for the weight of fluid raised in
                                              section of which      is any
a cylindrical   tube, the         transverse  c be the contour      of the  con
tinuous and     reentering                                                   ho
                                  curve. If
rizontal section of the tube, H and g the same as in the fun
damental equation, and 0 the angle of contact as before, the

weight of the fluid column        is found to be  --           cos  8.    It is to
                                                    ^--

be observed that this result is obtained by assuming the angle
of contact to be constant for the same solid and fluid, of which

law Laplace has failed to give a satisfactory proof.
After these preliminaries, the author proceeds to consider
tcraepaitlilsaery*.actiIotnmiany  a manner   different from  that of his  former
                                  be proper  to remark that  the subject  admits

of this other method of treatment for the same reason that in

   · In the observations with which the Supplement concludes, the author re
marks that this second method resembles that of Jurin, while the other may be
classed with the method of Segner and Young ; and that the reasoning by
which Jurin proved the elevation in a capillary tube to be inversely as the dia
meter, is correct when the tube is completely wetted by the fluid, and when in
                REPORT ON CAPILLARY ATTRACTION.                                                                              275

common statical problems there are two kinds of equations of
equilibrium, those in which pressures and tensions are involved,
and those which result when forces of this kind are eliminated.
The force corresponding to the convexity or concavity of the
fluid surface in capillary tubes is of the nature of a tension, and
may be kept out of view in finding the conditions of the equi
librium of the forces which suspend or depress the fluid column.
For this purpose it will be necessary to pay regard only to the
                             a
                                                                            a

                                                                            it,
action of the tube on the parts of the fluid contiguous to                                                                   and

to the action exerted on the raised or depressed column con
tained within the tube by the rest of the fluid. The former, as
Laplace shows, resolves itself into the attraction of ring of the
tube immediately above the extreme upper edge of the fluid,
and an equal attraction of like ring at the lower extremity of
the tube; and the latter, into the attraction of the upper ex
tremity of a tube of the fluid, supposed to be a continuation of
the solid tube, and attracting with the proper action of the fluid
Ifon itself. The first two forces tend to raise the fluid, the other
to depress it.  the total upward force be called 2q'gc, and the
downward force
                          both being proportional to the contour,
itwill                 that  --                                      gc = the weight of fluid raised.is c
        hence                                                             result which, as we know,is
                                qIf 2q'
                               is g= q,
                                      a c,

                                               (2
                                                   ^
                                                      ; q)
                                                                    a
               appear  no elevation
               there

may be obtained in very different manner.
The preceding expression for the weight of the elevated
column being equated to that previously obtained, gives

                             -- = --cos
         i it
     Now
     = q,    is
                   0

                              :

                                  2
                                   q'
                                             q
                                                 q
                                                               It
                                                                                 9.
by qf       shown satisfactorilyin the former treatise*, that when

                                                         TT

           ac so that = -- . This equality also proved

       Laplace in an independent manner. It hence follows that

*-- = cos--, which equation,                                           and be assumed to be in
                                 if

                                       q'
                                                   q

the proportion of the densities of the sold and fluid,                                       the same
as that first obtained by Dr. Young.

consequence the elevated column may be conceived to be contained in ana
aqueous tube. Leslie, in paper containing some original and ingenious views
on Capillary Attraction, (Phil. Mag., vol. xiv. 1802, p. 193,) objects to the
principle of Jurin's explanation, and attributes the rise of the fluid solely to its
perpendicular pressure against the surface of the tube occasioned by the tube's
attraction. By this consideration he finds the height to be inversely as the dia
meter. No doubt, as Leslie appears to have first observed, the rise depen
dent on a particular state of pressure at the surface of contact of the solid and
fluid, and according as this greater or less than certain pressure, there will
be rise or depression.

   ·Art. 12. 48.
                                                       T
a
                  p.

                                             is
                                                             2

                                                                                     a
                                                                                                                         is
276 FOURTH REPORT -- 18S4.

As it appears that the weight of the elevated column varies as
the periphery of the transverse section of the tube ; and as, for
tubes of like peripheries, the weights are as the products of the
heights and the squares of homologous lines, it follows that the
heights are inversely as homologous lines. This proportion,

says Laplace, is true also if the contour be not continuous, but
of the form, for instance, of a rectilinear polygon ; for the error
that would be occasioned by the angles of the polygon would
be of insensible magnitude, by reason of the small extent of
the sphere of activity of the particles. Gellert has made some
experiments on the elevation of water in glass prismatic tubes,
with rectangular and triangular bases *. They confirm the law
according to which the heights are inversely as the homologous
lines of like bases. He thinks also that the elevation is the same

for a rectangular as for an equal triangular base ; but the experi
ments do not appear to be decisive of this point. Laplace calcu
lates theoretically that the difference would be one eighth be
tween the elevations in a prism with a square base, and in one

whose base is an equilateral triangle of equal area.
One of the most interesting of the questions considered by
Laplace in the Supplement, relates to the capillary action
which takes place when two or more fluids are contained in the

same tube. Suppose a prismatic tube to be plunged vertically
in a vessel containing any         n"umthbeerexocef ssfluoidfs
                                                                 lying horizontally
one above another ; then                                        the weight of the
fluids contained in the tube above the weight it would have con
tained without capillary action, is equal to the weight of fluid
which would have been raised above the exterior level, in case

the vessel contained only that fluid in which the lower extremity
of the tube is immersed." For, in fact, the action of the prism
and of this fluid on the column of it in the tube, is plainly the
same as in this case, the action of the tube on each of the other
fluids being equal in opposite directions, and the mutual action

of the fluids being destroyed just as if they were supposed to

form a solid mass. The surface of the uppermost fluid is the
same as if that alone were in the tube.

When only two fluids are contained in a cylindrical tube, the
ftheory determines the common surface of their junction to be

spherical, and gives for the angle of contact of this surface a

*  Memoirs   of the Academy of Petersburgh, vol.   xii. p.      302.  elsewhere  called
             to be observed that the angle which  is here       and
t  It ought
the angle of contact               strictly speaking, not the angle which the fluid surface
   a
                              is,
makes with the surface of the solid at the points of their junction, but the angle
which tangent plane to the surface of the fluid at the limit of the sphere of

activity of the solid's attraction makes with the surface of the solid.
HliPORT ON CAPILLARY ATTRACTION.  277

formula involving the angles of contact proper to the fluids when
separately contained in the tube.

    When water and mercury are put in the same cylindrical glass

tube, and the water completely wets the tube, the mercury may
be considered to be contained in an aqueous tube, the action of
which on the mercury being small, the angle of contact is nearly
180° instead of 136°"8, which, according to Laplace, is that be
tween glass and mercury. This result, which is also deduced
from the above-mentioned formula, is confirmed by the observa
tions of Gay-Lussac. Another deduction from the theory also
receives confirmation from the same eminent experimenter, viz.
that mercury is less depressed in a capillary tube when its upper
surface is covered with a small portion of water, than when
covered by alcohol. For the capillary action of water on itself
exceeds that of alcohol on itself, and would therefore be likely
to have a greater action than alcohol on mercury.

    Various other interesting results, which it would be long to
enumerate here, are readily deduced by the method of consider
ing capillary effects exhibited by the author in his Supple
ment. This method, in some applications, leads to results
more rapidly than that of the Treatise; while at the same
time the latter has advantages peculiar to itself in all questions
relating to the surfaces of fluid inclosed in capillary spaces, or
subject in any way to capillary action. Three such questions,
which had been either omitted or partially treated in the first
work, are handled at considerable length in the Supplement ;
and it will be proper now to advert to their solutions. These
problems, which for the most part had previously engaged the
attention of Dr. Young, are: (1.) The apparent attraction and
repulsion of small bodies swimming on the surfaces of fluids.
(2.) The adhesion of discs to the surfaces of fluids. (3.) The
figure of a large drop of mercury, and the depression of mercury
in a glass tube of a large diameter.

   (1.) By considering generally the capillary action between
two vertical and parallel planes of different matters plunged with
the lower extremities in the same fluid, the following theorem
is obtained : Whatever be the substances of which the planes
are formed, the tendency of each towards the other is equal to
the weight of a fluid prism whose height is the difference of ele
vation of the extreme points of contact of the fluid on the oppo
site sides of the plane, whose depth is half the sum of these
elevations, and breadth, that of the planes. The elevation is to
be taken negatively when it changes into a depression ; and if
the product of these three dimensions be negative, the apparent
attraction of the planes becomes a repulsion. These tendencies
278                          FOURTH REPORT 1834.

are shown to be the same for the two planes, and their actions
on each other by the intervention of the fluid to be equal and
opposite. The theory leads to the singular result that the re
pulsion will change into attraction by making the planes ap
proach very near each other, and experiments by M. Haiiy show
that such is the fact.

    (2.) When a disc is applied to the surface of standing water,
on being raised it draws, by capillary action, a portion of the
a

                 it,
                                                                             is
fluid with        which detaches itself when the disc raised above
      certain elevation. At this limit the suspending force must
plainly be equal to the weight of the disc and of the portion of
fluid raised above the horizontal level of the water. As this force

may be accurately determined by experiment, we are furnished
with means of putting the theory to test, because the surface,
                                                       a

and consequently the volume of the raised column, can be found
from the fundamental equation of the theory. When the calcu
lation made, the expression for the volume involves quantity
         is is                                                                   a            H
                                                                                           2
which Laplace calls --* and which is, in fact, the same as2                                      .
.8Now, as was said above, the weight of fluid raised i.n capillarya i,
                                     2                         .
                                        ,
                                                                                 ca
                                                                                            g,
                                                                                                 ;;
tube --JL cos or --?-- the fluid perfectly wets the tubeifis
                        ----
                                                    h
ifrand this weight in cylindrical tube also equal to^r hg

be the radius of the cylinder, and the mean elevation of the fluid

--so that - H = 2rh = diameter of the tube x mean elevation of

the fluid *. If, then, the diameter of cylindrical capillary tube,
and the elevation in of fluid which perfectly wets     is                        it,  be ob-
                             2 it          a
                                                            a
served, the value of- for that fluid found experimentally. The

                                              2
following numerical values of -- are deduced by Laplace from

the experiments of Gay-Lussac, after correcting for the tempe
rature which was 80,5 of the centigrade thermometer, and for
the difference of one sixth of the diameter between the mean
elevation, and the observed elevation of the lowest point of the
t

   is, f
          ,
* "ThTisheeqeuleavlaittyion  also readily deduced from the fundamental equation.
                             of fluid which wets completely the sides of a capillary
                           is
                                    a

tube     at different temperatures, in the direct ratio of the density of the fluid,

and in the inverse ratio of the interior diameter of the tube." This shown at
                                                                                 is

p. 38 of the Supplement. An increase of temperature diminishes the elevation
both by diminishing the density of the fluid and increasing the capacity of the
tube. Admitting that H varies as                      will be seen from the equation above
                  .
that varies as --
      h                                   j,
                                                  it
REPORT ON CAPILLARY ATTRACTION.                                                          211)

surface. The diameter of the tube was in each case lmi,29441.
or in English measure, '05096 of an inch.

For water,                                          Mi.mi.                  Sq. Inch.
                                                 30-2621                     0469

                             gr.\j^

                             .a
.JFor alcohol, sp.                          _~_  12-1649                 = -0188
    ·81961, .
                .

.JFor oil of turpentine,!              --2  ~=   13-1606                 =  -0204
   sp. gr. -86946, .                    ~i

By means of these values the weights of the columns of fluid
raised by a disc of white glass, 118mil366, or 4-66 inches
in diameter, just when the fluid detaches itself from the disc,
are determined by the theory to be respectively

Grammes.                               Grammes.                          Grammes.

59-5873                                311435                            34-350,
and the experimental determinations t are,

Grammes.                               Grammes.                          Grammes.

59-40                                  31-08                             34104.

The nearness of these to the theoretical results not only con
firms the theory, but shows also the correctness of the values

of --2 deduced from the experiments on capillary tubes. Dif

ferent experimenters % have determined differently the heights of

· The ml- attached stands for millimetre, and m'-m'- for square millimetre.
f These weights expressed in English grains are respectively
                                                                                         917-14,

479-87, and 526-56, which being divided by the number of square inches in
the surface of the disc, give 53} grains corresponding to each square inch for
water, 28 grains for alcohol, and 31 grains for oil of turpentine. Achard obtains
for water 39J grains, for alcohol 23-4 grains: Dutour finds 44-1 grains, and
25'6 grains. In the experiment of Taylor (Phil. Tram. 1721) on the attrac
tion of wood to water, the   raising   ftohreceArwt.asC5a0pgilrlaairnys  to each square  inch.
   X The following Table is  given in                                                    the Edinb.
                                                                         Attraction of
Encycl.: the heights are reduced to a tube whose diameter is -01 of an inch.

Height of the  Height X                          Observers.
     water.    diameter.

Inches.        Sq. Inch.               Haiiy and Tremery.
 2-1           0021                    Hallstrbm.
 2-6            0026                   Dr. Brewster.
 3-27           00327
 3-92           00392                  Musschenbroek.
 4-0                                   Average assumed by Dr. Young.
 4-2           004                     Monge.
 4-28           0042                   Weitbrecht.
 4-6            00428
 4-8                                   From Morveau's experiments.
 5-3            0-046                  Martin.
                0048                   Atwood.

                0-053

The experiments of Sir David Brewster were made with much care, and em-.
280 FOURTH REPORT -- 1834.

elevation in glass tubes, probably by reason of different degrees
of humidity of the interior of the tubes. When the tubes were
well wetted, Gay-Lussac found the elevations to be always very
nearly the same in different experiments. As the weights re
quired to detach discs from fluid surfaces can be measured with
considerable precision, the accordance of the preceding experi
mental and theoretical values serves to verify the experimental

values of -- .
                              a.
    Equal discs of different substances perfectly wetted by a fluid,

ought to raise columns of the same weight, because the resist
ance to the separation of the disc is, in each case, produced by
the adhesion of the fluid to itself, that is, to the stratum of fluid
that lines the inferior surface of the disc.

   As the angle of contact of mercury with glass under water is
nearly 180°, a glass disc applied under water to the surface of
mercury would not be capable of drawing up any portion of

mercury on being raised from the surface.
    These two conclusions from the theory have been confirmed

experimentally by Gay-Lussac.
    (3.) The analytical calculation for determining the form of a

large drop of mercury serves also to find the depression of this
fluid in a glass tube of large diameter. Gay-Lussac ascertained
by experiment that the height at which a large drop of mercury
stands on a horizontal plane of glass is 3mi,378 (= "133 of
an inch), agreeing very nearly with the result of a like experi
ment by Segner. The drop was circular and one decimetre, or
3'937 inches in diameter, and the temperature at 120-8 of the
centigrade thermometer. To calculate the height theoretically,
it is necessary to know the value of --2 for mercury in a glass

tube, and its angle of contact with glass. Laplace takes for
the former 13 m'-^} (= -0201 square inch), and for the latter,
152° ( = 1360,8). These values, he says, are mean results ob
tained by comparing several observed capillary phaenomena with
the theory, and may be further rectified by more numerous ex
periments. The height of a large drop of mercury given by the
theory by means of these data is 3mi-39(J64.

brace a great variety of fluids ; but the tube does not appear to have been
moistened in its whole extent. The results are tabulated in the article above
referred to, as well as those from the experiments of Mr. B. Martin, which, for
the same fluids, uniformly give a higher value of the constant. The values of
the constant for alcohol and oil of turpentine, as found by Gay-Lussac, do not
differ materially from the determinations of others. Sir David Brewster finds for
alcohol -OirS, for oil of turpentine -0187; Martin, for the same fluids, -018
and -022; Miisschenbroek for alcohol 021.
REPORT ON CAPILLARY ATTRACTION.                   281

    Gay-Lussac also observed in a large glass vessel, containing
mercury and having its sides vertical, the difference between
the extreme elevation of the fluid and the elevation at the points
of contact with the sides of the vessel, and found it to be

ln,,455 (= -057 in.). The theory gives lmi-432.

   Laplace concludes his work with some general observations
respecting the interior constitution of bodies, and the nature of
molecular forces. The viscosity of fluids, he remarks, is a dis
turbing cause in capillary phrenomena, which can be strictly ex
plained by the theory only when the condition of perfect fluidity
is fulfilled. To that cause and the friction against the sides of
the tube, he considers the differences between the elevations of
water in capillary tubes as determined by different observers, to
be attributable. With respect to the variation of pressure from

nothing to the quantity K, which according to the calculations of

the theory ought to take place within a space extending from
the free surface of the fluid to a small depth below, Laplace
observes that it may be attended with a sensible variation of

density, and have a perceptible effect on capillary phenomena.

The modification that his theory must undergo if this circum

stance be taken into account, has been fully discussed, as we shall

presently see, by M. Poisson.
   There is a good exposition of the leading propositions of

Laplace's theory by M. Petit in the Journal of the Polytech

nic School*.
   The work of M. Gauss, entitled Principia generalia Theorice

Figvrce Fluidorum in statu 2Equilibrii\ , has for its main object

the correction of the defect already pointed out in Laplace's
theory, with regard to the proof of the constancy of the angle

of contact. To form the equations of equilibrium, M. Gauss

employs the principle of virtual velocities, which he applies to
the whole mass of the fluid, and not, as Lagrange has done, to
a differential element. This elegant method, which has the pe
culiar advantage of evolving at once the equation of the free
surface of the fluid, and that relative to the contour, conducts
to a sextuple integral, which extends to the whole mass, and
is to be a minimum. By supposing the fluid to be homogeneous
and incompressible, the integral becomes quadruple. By further
supposing the only forces that act to be gravity and the
molecular attractions of the fluid and containing solid, and the
sphere of activity of these attractions to be insensible, the

/· -quantity (W) to be a minimum, is found to be expressed by
                      fcds + «*U + («» 2/Sa)T,

torn. ix. call. xvi. p. 1.  * T Gottingen, 1830.
282 FOURTH REPORT 1834.

in which the first term is equivalent to the volume of the con
                                                                                                of    its centre
tained fluid multiplied by the vertical ordinate                                                *a     constant    of

gravity, U is the area of its free surface, and a9                                                                de

pending on the intensity of the attraction of the fluid particles

for each other, T is the area of the solid surface with which the

fluid is in contact, and            constant depending on the intensity
                              /32

                                 a
                                                is
of  the   attraction to which  the  fluid           subject from the particles
of  the   solid. By making                        and in the variation suppos
ing U constant,                SW   =0,

               is 0,        readily found that the mean elevation in                                              a

capillary lube varies inversely as its diameter. By again put8it
ting W = and making the free surface subject to variation,is
M. Gauss arrives at two equations, one of which, relating to the
free surface, the fundamental equation of Laplace's theory,
                                          of contact, equivalent to that
and the other, relative to the  anIgtle   not the object of the author to                   is

which Dr. Young obtained.              is

trace the consequences to be derived from these equations in ex
plaining phenomena, as this was satisfactorily done by Laplace.
    The first published ideas of M. Poisson on the theory of ca
pillary action are contained in memoir on the Equilibrium of
                               is
                                      a
Fluids, read before the Paris Academy November 24, 1828f.
His object in this memoir to form the equations of the equi
librium of fluids on physical principles, that is, by considering
them as composed of distinct molecules, separated from one
another by spaces void of ponderable matter. He commences
with the following preliminary notions.
    The dimensions of the molecules and of the spaces between
them are so small, that a line which may be supposed great
          :
                          ;

                         is
                                                                                 is

                                                                                                       a
multiple of them of insensible magnitude. The molecules at
tract each other at the same time they mutually repel by their
proper heat. For each of these forces the action equal to the
reaction both decrease with great rapidity as the distances in
crease, and are sensible only at insensible distances. The radii
of activity of these forces are nevertheless supposed to be ex
tremely great compared with the intervals between the molecules,
and the rapid decrease to commence only at distances which
are great multiples of these small intervals. Without this sup
position, in bodies whose molecules are not regularly distributed,
the resultant of the molecular forces, that is, the total force
which acts on each molecule, might be very different in magni
tude and direction for two consecutive molecules, and conse

quently would not be subject to the law of continuity. It seems

necessary therefore to make the above supposition.

t                                                                                   --
                                                                                    »
      4

           I
                                                  is
                                                                                   2
    ·  «* in M. Gauss's work   the  same  as  the                                       of  Laplace.

       Memoircs de Academic des Sciences, torn. ix. Paris 1830.
          REPORT ON CAPILLARY ATTRACTION.

By molecular action M. Poisson understands the excess of
the repulsion above the attraction between the molecules. This
force he supposes to be different for different points of the two
molecules. Its mean value he calls the principal force, and the
variation from this normal value according as different points of

the molecules are directed towards each other, the secondary

force. This latter plays an important part in solids, giving rise
to their rigidity and resistance to the lateral motion of their
molecules. Its absence from fluids is the occasion of the per
fect mobility of their particles.                The   characteristic of        fluids that
distinguishes them from solids                    is                              point be
                                                      thus stated : If a
taken anywhere in the interior of a fluid mass, and a straight
line of insensible length but a great multiple of the mean inter
val between the molecules, be drawn in any direction from that
point, the mean interval between the molecules that lie on the
line is constant, though the particles may be irregularly dis
posed along it. The constancy of this mean interval is consi
dered to be owing to the absence of the secondary force above
mentioned, by reason of which the molecules can readily take
positions that satisfy this condition *.

   Setting out with these principles M. Poisson arrives at equa
tions relative to the pressure in the interior of a fluid mass,
which are the same as those usually obtained on the supposition
of equality of pressure in all directions from any given point.
The reasoning by which these equations are deduced is not
immediately founded on any observed fact, and as it conducts to
the same equations as those deducible from the known law of
equal pressure, it may be said to account theoretically for the
existence of this law. This is an instance of mathematics ap
plied in the manner spoken of at the commencement of the
Report. The bases of                                                            ; and it
leads to the explanation     the   reasoning are      Ihtywpootuhledsensot      be right
                             of a  known fact.

to conclude from this one explanation that the hypotheses must

necessarily be true. They can be considered to be satisfactorily
established, only when they have been successfully employed in
accounting for all the facts that are known to depend on the in
timate constitution of fluids, and when they are found to require

for this purpose no modification.
After calculating, on the above-mentioned hypotheses, the

* Dr. Young has also speculated on the interesting subject of the immediate
                             He remarks in his Lecture on Cohesion, (Lectures, vol. i.
cause of  ftlhuaidtit"y.the                       of the cohesion of fluids is
p. 620,)                      apparent weakness                                 entirely owing
to the mobility of           their particles."   It would be perhaps more       correct to say,

that a weak cohesive power is a condition necessary to the existence of a great
degree of mobility.
984                            FOURTH REPORT -- 183-4.

pressures in the interior of a fluid, M. Poisson finds equations
of equilibrium relative to the surface of separation of two fluids
incumbent one on the other, and thence, by supposing one of the
fluids suppressed, the equation of the free surface of a single
fluid. The principal conclusion arrived at in the memoir is
thus stated in Art. 31 : "Capillary phaenomena are due to the
molecular action resulting from the calorific repulsion and an
attractive force, and modified not only by the form of the sur
faces as in Laplace's theory, but moreover by a particular state
of compression* of the fluid at its superficies." The variation
Aoflsdoe,ns"itythenemaor ltehceulsaurrafatctera, cittioisn  shown, must be                                               extremely rapid.
                                                            in fluids as well                                            as solids extends

further than the calorific repulsion." (Art. 30.)
   The above conclusion is confirmed in various ways, and the
consequences that flow from it with reference to capillary phae
nomena are fully discussed in the work of M. Poisson entitled
Notwelle The'orie de I' Action Capillairef. The object of this
treatise is to bring the theory of capillary phaenomena to the
greatest degree of perfection that the power of analysis and the
existing knowledge of facts will permit. In the first chapter the

author proves that if the rapid variation of density near the
surface were neglected, the fluid within the tube would remain
horizontal, and there would be neither elevation nor depression.
He shows also the necessity of having regard to the variable
compression experienced by the fluid near the surface of the
tube, and reaching to the extent of the action due to the solid.
Whence it follows that the principles of Laplace's theory are
defective, notwithstanding it is so successful in the explanation

of phaenomena. In Arts. 18 and 19, M. Poisson obtains, on the
supposition of incompressibility, the equation of Dr. Young re
lative to the angle of contact, which, as we have seen, was also

    ·  It is not  perhaps difficult to  see, without                                                           the aid   of analytical calculation,
that   if bodies  be assumed to be      composed of                                                            isolated  atoms held in places of

equilibrium by attractive and repulsive forces, the sphere of whose sensible in
Iffluence is very small, there must be a rapid change of density at their surfaces.

    experiment should ever be able to detect such a change, this assumed con
stitution of bodies would be rendered extremely probable.
   t Paris 1831. Extracts from         this         work, with Remarks                                                        H.F.  Link,  will be
                                        der         Physik und Chemie,                                                   by
found in PoggendorfTs Annalen                                                                                            bd.  xxv.  1832,  p. 270,

and bd. xxvii.     1833,   p.   193.                of his forthcoming treatise                                               on "The                   Ma
   M. Poisson     states  in   the preamble

ltteihfciecomnJdaotpiucaranrltaTolhfe{aoLr"'yImTortefialHuteits,aet,N"oonw. MhfoiacrthhMeamapypaetai2cr4ae,dl   recently in a Paris weekly scien
                                                                                                               1834,) that that theory forms the
                                                                                                               Physics," in which he proposes to
treat, without restriction to any predetermined order,
tions   which  "adismtiht eoffitrhset               of analysis.                                                         "diNffeewrenTthepohryysicoafl   ques
lary   Action                          application                                                             The                                      Capil
                                       part.
             REPORT ON CAPILLARY ATTRACTION.                                 285

found by M. Gauss without deviating from the principles of La
place's theory. But this equation is no longer true if it be ne
cessary to take account of the variation of density at the fluid
surface ; nor in the same case can the argument hold good by
which Clairaut showed that the fluid surface is horizontal when
its attractive power is double that of the solid*.
In the next chapter, the equation of the free surface of fluid in
equilibrium in a capillary space is obtained by an analysis which
takes into account any variation of density that may exist at the
fluid surface, although the exact law of variation be unknown.
This equation is of the same form as the fundamental equation
of Laplace, and involves an analogous quantity H. As M. Poisson
infers fromit is             by assuming an angle w, which the supplement
                 it,                                               is
of that we have hitherto called the angle contact, to be constant,   is

that the weight of fluid raised in capillary tube                        ?-  cos w,
                                               a

which    the expression for the same weight obtained by La     is
place,  follows that H in the two theories the same in mag

nitude, though differently represented by the analytical for

mulae.

The third chapter employed in finding on the same princi
ples the equation relative to the contour of the capillary surface.F F is
The angle of contact, which found as in preceding theories to
                                           is
be constant, assigned by the equationq

   It = H cos co.is
                 8
        may be useful to give some idea of the nature and compo
sition of the constants and H. The following formulae will
serve to do this, when the significations of the letters they con
tain have been explained
        -H                         :

        .g-.*                                F
                             + in              y=
                                                      1        CT

             = --J*TM Rr,rfr

                                   J2i/o          ·/
                                               o
                                                         o

                                                           ar
   Conceive the fluid mass to be divided by curve surface pass

ing through any point M into two parts A and B, and through
the sides of rectangular element of the surface at the point M,

let normal planes be erected inclosing prismoidal element of
·                                                     a

                it a
                        is,
M. Poisson's theory cannot inform us how far that equation               is  erroneous,

nor whether                  or not, very approximately true.
286 FOURTH REPORT-- 1834.

the portion A. Let m and ml be two molecules of the fluid,
one in the prismoid, the other in some part of A. Then r is the
line joining them, u is its projection on the tangent plane at M,
.<>
and * are the perpendiculars from the molecules on the same

plane, so that ra = Ma + (*--*')*. R, R,, and R' are functions
of r, which are insensible for every sensible value of this varia
oblfe,thaendflueixdprmesoslecthuelems uattutahleacdtiisotnanrceeferrrefdrotmo  the units of
                                                                               each other.   volume

                                                                                               R re
lates to the interior of the fluid, to its superficial stratum, and
                                       it,
                                           is
                                                R,
R' to the stratum adjoining the side of the tube. With respect
to the surface through M parallel to the free surface of the
fluid at distance from and A answers to the fluid contained
R,                     I

        a

between these two surfaces. So with respect to R', the surface
through M parallel to the surface of the tube at distance
                d, is                                                          R

                                                                                       a
                                                                                                         s
which may also be called and A answers to the fluid contained
                                       I,

between this surface and the tube.                  R,  and R' vary very rapidly

with and               and confound themselves with                               so soon as
is
   sJ, *these variables exceed the radius of the molecular activity. The
       isquantity which the limit of the integrals with respect to
Itand greater than this radius, yet of insensible magnitude./. I,q, is

        shown that and <a do not change sensibly with the mag
nitude of
   As the forms of the functions R, R/5 and R' are quite un
known, the values of qt, and ts cannot be calculated a priori.q,

Neither are there any means known at present of determining
them experimentally. But experiment can assign the numeri

cal values of H and w, and consequently that of F. Hence
the ratio of q, to should become known, the three quan                                       is is
                                q
                                                                                                 if if
tities would be determined. The knowledge of this ratio the

chief desideratum of the theory. M. Poisson has shown that
there be no variation of density near the surface of the tube,
which will happen when the molecular action of the tube the
same as that of the solid, vt = q. In this case cos eo = --
-----                                      1, 2
           He shows also, according to what might be expected
q,

   is

        a

                .

                            is
from experience, that'cos a = -- when the molecular attrac
tion of the tube exceeds that of the fluid, but assigns no limit

ing value of the excess at which this value of cos a> begins. It
seems, therefore, reasonable to conclude that when the forces
are equal, cos » nearly equal to -- and consequently that
       small quantity compared to          q.       Also, as the density in the
                                                 1,

thin superficial stratum of the fluid varies from to the density
                                                                               0

of the interior, the state of dilatation near the surface would
naturally lead us, as M. Poisson observes, to make this inference
with respect to the value of qt .
           REPORT ON CAPILLARY ATTRACTION.                           287

   Enough has perhaps been said to give an idea of the physical

part of M. Poisson's theory ; it remains to notice some of the
mathematical deductions obtained from the two principal equa
tions in the succeeding chapters of the work. These equations
being the same in form as in Laplace's theory lead to like results.

In several instances M. Poisson has carried the mathematical
calculation to a greater degree of approximation, and by this
means obtained numerical results more nearly agreeing with
experiment. Thus, the elevation of the lowest point of the ca
                 in a tube lmi,90381         -075 in.) in
pillary surface    of Gay-Lussac is    (=     5861 ; by    diameter, by
the experiments
                                      15mi-                M. Poisson's

calculations 15ml,5829, by those of Laplace 15mi-5787.
   After extending the analysis to the case in which the interior
surface of the tube instead of being cylindrical is any surface
of revolution with its axis vertical and its diameter small in the

whole extent, M. Poisson considers what will take place when
the fluid rises to the upper extremity of the tube, and finds, con

trary to an opinion expressed by Laplace*, that the invariabi
lity of the angle of contact is still maintained under these cir
cumstances, because the radius of curvature of the edge which
terminates the interior surface of the tube is always exceedingly
greater than the radius of the molecular action. This circum
stance ought to be taken into account in determining the weight
necessary to detach a solid disc from the surface of a fluid.
The weight of a drop of water suspended at the lower extre
mity of a capillary tube and spreading to the exterior edge, is
calculated by the theory for the case in which it is just ready to
detach itself, and found to be something less than the mean
weight of drops falling in succession from the same tube, as in
ferred from an experiment by Gay-Lussac.

   In considering the case of two fluids superincumbent one on
the other in the same tube, M. Poisson obtains the same for

mulae as Laplace, and employs them to explain a singular phe
nomenon observed by Dr. Young, and supposed by himto pre
sent an objection to Laplace's theory. Into a capillary tube
containing water, Dr. Young inserted a small drop of oil, and
then saw the superior surface of the oil depress itself below the
original height of the water. This depression, no doubt, refers
Ifto the centre of the capillary surface, where it cuts the axis of
the tube.        it may be supposed that the oil in descending
moistened the tube, and that the water did not wet it originally
in its whole extent, the fact is accounted for by the theory.
The pressure of fluids as modified by capillary action is treated

           · Supplement a la Theorie de V Action Capillaire, p. 25.
288 FOURTH REPORT -- 1834.

at considerable length : both the vertical and the horizontal
pressures on a solid partly immersed in a fluid are determined,

and from the calculation of the latter it appears, that if a plate,

the two parallel faces of which are of different substances, be the
solid immersed, the horizontal pressures on the opposite faces
                                                          the solid can have no
exactly counterbalance,  Iatndapcpoenasresquferonmtly  a  remark made by La
motion of translation.

place at the beginning of page 43 of the Supplement to his Ca
pillary Theory, that his reasoning led him to suppose there would
be some difference of pressure, but so small that it might be
neglected. However small it might be, a motion of translation
would be the consequence, and this it seems difficult to admit.
Dr. Young advanced this objection to Laplace's theory in a
letter to M. Poisson, against whose more exact theory, as we
see, the same objection does not hold good.
   Various problems which had been handled by preceding
mathematicians, receive solutions in chapter vi. more exact
than had hitherto been given them, and more carefully com
pared with experiments. The following are some of the re
sults.

When two plates are immersed with parallel faces in a fluid
which rises against the surface of one and is depressed near that
of the other, it is found that the fluid surface between them may
assume two different forms when the plates are near each other.

In one there is a point of inflection which is retained however
near the plates be brought to each other, and in this case they
constantly repel with a force independent of the interval between
them ; the other is the form remarked by Laplace, which con
tains no inflection, and when it subsists the repulsion changes to
an attraction on making the plates approximate. M. Poisson
is of opinion, that the first of these forms obtains when the

plates, being originally at a great distance, are gradually brought

near each other, and the latter when, one plate being previously
immersed, the other is inserted into the curved portion of the
fluid contiguous to it.
The values of the two constants of the theory, viz. 2 a*, the
product of the diameter of the capillary tube by the mean ele
vation of the fluid in and it -- to, the angle of contact, are found
            2
                a

                         it,

                                                                                         a

                                                                                                                            :
with reference to mercury and glass, by comparing the theory
with the experiments of Gay-Lussac on the height of large drop
of mercury on horizontal glass plane, to be as follows
        2o2= x 6-5262 sq. millimetres (= '02023 sq.in.)
the angle   of contact    = 154Ol30' (=
             116 the    weights of fluid  138°-52').      circular  discs                                                      are
   In Art.                                raised by

calculated, and compared very satisfactorily with the cxperi
               REPORT ON CAPILLARY ATTRACTION.             289

ments of Gay-Lussac cited by Laplace for the same purpose.
The heights of the disc above the horizontal level of the fluid, at
the instants when the weights of the elevated columns are at a

maximum, are determined at the same time by the theory, but
these were not measured in the experiments.

   Besides the usual problems in the capillary theory, M. Pois-

son has solved two others, not previously attempted, one relat
ing to the form of fluid poured upon another fluid of greater
specific gravity ; the other relative to the adhesion of the base of
a capillary solid cylinder to a fluid from which it is raised with
its axis vertical. This question is similar to that of the adhesion
of a disc, but requires to be treated by a different analytical

process.
The concluding chapter of the treatise contains notes and ad
ditions, in which some points of the theory are further developed,
                         compared. One section
and new experiments      author's views respecting  is"  devoted to a
full exposition of the                                   the interior
constitution of bodies, particularly of fluids, and the nature of
molecular forces;"                       of "the general
of the equilibrium       another treats                    equations
                                         results from the  complete
                         of fluids." It
equation of the free surface of a fluid, obtained on the hypothesis
of disjoined molecules, held in equilibrium by attractive and re
pulsive forces, that the resultant of the extraneous forces acting
on the fluid, is not exactly perpendicular to its surface, unless it
be perfectly plane. The views advanced in these sections are for
the most part those we have had occasion to adduce in speaking
of the Memoir on the Equilibrium of Fluids. Some of the
other subjects of this chapter ought not to be passed over with

out notice.

The depression of mercury in the barometer cannot be con
veniently calculated by the theory except the ratio of the radius
of the tube to the constant a be either small or great. In
other cases it is necessary to recur to the method of quadratures.

A table of depressions calculated in this way by M.Bouvard,
and inserted in the Connaissance des Terns for 1812, is cited by
M. Poisson, and placed in comparison with a like table from
Lord Charles Cavendish's experiments, with which it is found
                         as could be expected from the nature of the
to agree as    nearly     desirable, he remarks, that the calculations
observations.
                  It is
should be repeated with the more exact values of the constant a
and the angle of contact determined by himself.

   Casbois, Professor of Physic at Metz, pointed out a method
of constructing barometers with plane or even concave surfaces,
having observed that by boiling mercury the convexity of its
capillary surface is diminished, and by continuing the boiling

1834.                    U
290 FOURTH REPORT 1834.

a sufficient length of time, might be changed to concavity.

M.Poisson adduces a communication from M. Dulong containing
the following satisfactory explanation of this phsenomenon. In

the operation of boiling, a thin layer of the mercury in contact
with the air is oxidized, and then mingling with the whole mass,
changes its properties in such a manner, that the action of the
mercury on its own particles and on those of the tube, or rather
on the particles of a thin coating of water which is always in
terposed between the mercury and the tube, is not the same as
before, the change being greater in proportion to the greater
quantity of metal oxidized, that is, in proportion to the duration
of the boiling.

   A formula obtained in a previous part of the work (Art. 53,)
applicable to the rise in a capillary tube of a fluid consisting of

two fluids mixed in given proportions, is here compared with
experiments made a long time since by Gay-Lussac,butnotbefore
published. This formula is founded on the supposition that the
loss of heat which takes place in mixing, has no influence,
when the temperature has become the same as before, on the

integral which determines the value of H, and on which the

phenomena of capillarity depend, an hypothesis favoured by the
fact, that in the case of a single fluid, the decrement of elevation
at different temperatures is proportional to the augmentation of
density. The theoretical heights agree much less exactly with
the experimental for a mixture of water and alcohol, than for a
mixture of water and nitric acid ; which shows that the above
hypothesis is more true for one mixture than the other.

    M. Poisson lastly applies his theory to the explanation of the
remarkable phenomenon of endosmose. He conceives that the
two fluids meet without mixing in the capillary tubes which
permeate the membrane, and by the relation of the molecular
forces at their common surface of separation, one prevails over
the other, and so passes through to the opposite side of the
membrane. It has been objected to this theory that it does
not account for the phaenomenon of exosmose*. An abstract
of Mr. Power's views on this subject having been inserted in
the Third Report of the British Association, it will be only
necessary to state that in the paper on Residuo-Capillary
Attraction by the same author, subsequently published in the

    · Admitting, as suggested by Professor Henslow, that each fluid tends to
spread into the other through the capillary communications, may not effects such
as are observed, be expected to result merely from the state of compression of
the fluid stratum in contact with the substance of the membrane? This will
vary with the varying density of the fluid from one point to another of the
surface of contact, being greatest where the density is least.
REPORT ON CAPH.LARY ATTRACTION.                        201

 Transactions of the Cambridge Philosophical Society*, his

theory has undergone some modification, the phaenomena both
of endosmose and exosmose, and the variation of the maximum
difference of the heights of the fluids according to the difference
of their densities, being accounted for independently of any
particular mode of communication of the fluids in the capillary

Ispaces.
       beg leave to close this Report with proposing a query sug
gested by the existing state of the theory of capillary attraction.
How does it happen that the principles with which Laplace's
theory sets out conduct to two fundamental equations the same
in form as those of M. Poisson's theory ? Ought not the lat
ter, seeing that the law of the molecular forces is quite ar
bitrary, to embrace every possible method of arriving at these
equations ; and should we not expect that the method of Laplace
is not inconsistent with the other, but a particular case of it ?
The most probable supposition respecting the molecular forces
of fluids is, that the attractive force is comparatively small, de
creases much more slowly with the distance than the repulsive,
and is sensible to a much greater distance from the centre to
which it is directed. The hypothesis of incompressibility cor
responds to the limiting case, when the repulsive force being
infinitely great at first, decreases by very large gradations as
the distance from the centre increases, and within a very small
space becomes less than the attractive force. As the above law
of the forces as well as the limiting case of it are embraced by

M. Poisson's theory, we may perhaps hence see why the sup

position of incompressibility conducts to the same form of
the principal equations. In some objections that have been
made to the principles of Laplace's theory, it does not appear
to have been sufficiently considered that by supposing the fluid
to be incompressible, he does in fact take account of a molecular

repulsion. It remains to be determined whether the variation

of density, which on the hypothesis of a disjoined molecular
constitution of bodies must obtain at their surfaces, be such as
to admit of the supposition of incompressibility as a near ap
proximation to the truth. But this there are at present no
experimental means of determining. The experiments of Has-
senfratzf, from which he inferred that glass by being pounded
became specifically lighter, are not confirmed by those of Gay-
LussacJ. As no variation of density has been hitherto detected,
we have a sort of negative evidence that the depth of the super-

· vol. v. part ii.  \ Ann. Ch. Gilb. I. p. 515.
v2J See Nouvelle Thiorie de VAction Capillaire, p. 6.
S02 FOURTH REPORT -- 1834.

Ifficial stratum in which there is any sensible variation must be
exceedingly minute.            that depth may be neglected in com
parison of the radius of sensible activity of the attractive force,
Laplace's principles suffice for a theory of Capillary Attraction,
without being inconsistent with those of M. Poisson. We may
add as a theoretical reason for the supposition of a rapidly
decreasing repulsive force united with a feeble and slowly de
creasing attractive force, that we may thus understand how the
fluid particles will move readily among each other, retaining
the same mean interval ; for there will be a small obstacle to any
change of their relative positions by separation, but a great
obstacle to any approach within a certain limit*. Perhaps
experiments with light, which appears to be the most success
ful instrument for searching into the intimate constitution
of bodies, offer the best chance of getting at something satis
factory on the delicate point we have been speaking of. In the
mean time, while M. Poisson's theory will engage the attention
of the speculative philosopher, there appears no reason why the
simpler theory of Laplace should not be made the vehicle for
conveying to the younger students of science, in an elementary
form, the explanations of a numerous and interesting class of

phjenomena.

Various causes, which it would be useless to detail, prevented
             tahesi"ghNt eowf  the Number   of PoggendorfTs Annalen
me having                      Experiments  on Capillarity," by H. F.
containing
Linkf, (mentioned by Professor Moll at the Meeting of the
Association,) till within a    short interval before the revision of
this Report for the press.
                                I fear that, from want of time and
sufficient acquaintance with the German language, the following
notice of them will not be such as their importance demands.
The object of M. Link is to ascertain the comparative ascents
of different fluids by capillary attraction, in a manner that would
be free from the sources of error to which the methods of former
experiments had been liable. For this purpose he observes the
ascent between two glass plates inclined at a small angle with
the line of junction vertical, in which case, as we know, the
suspended fluid takes the form of a rectangular hyperbola. The
instrument he made use of provided for the adjustment of the

   · It will readily be seen, that under these circumstances the fluid would be

susceptible of division by a thin plate by the application of a very small force,
and we might thus account for a characteristic property of fluids, which, as was
mentioned in my former Report (p. 133), has been employed as the basis of
their mathematical treatment. I was in error in supposing that this method
has only been recently proposed ; it appears to have been thought of by Pascal.

   f Annalen der P/iysik und C/temie, bd. xxix. 1833, p. 40 1.
REPORT OS CAPILLARY ATTRACTION.                             293

angle of inclination to any required magnitude, and was con
venient for dipping the plates very frequently in the fluids.
The peculiar advantage of this method was, that the ascents
of different fluids could be observed under exactly the same
circumstances : for all the observations could be taken at

the same parts of the plates and with the same interval of
separation ; and after experiments made with one fluid, the
plates could be conveniently cleared of all remaining moisture,
before experiments were made with another. When the same
capillary tube is used, it is difficult to get rid of the moisture
adhering to the interior ; and when different tubes are used,
the experiments cannot well be under like circumstances by
reason of superficial inequalities in the glass surfaces, besides
that the exact proportion of the diameters is not readily ascer

tained. The principal result that M. Link arrives at is, that all
the fluids rose to the same height. The fluids employed were,
distilled water, nitric acid, a solution of kali causticum (one oz.
to six of water), spirit of wine (very rectified), sulphuric aether,
and rectified sulphuric acid (sp. gr. 1*84). The aether stood
lower at first, but after repeated dippings rose to the same height
as the water. The sulphuric acid was at first higher than the
water, but afterwards sunk to the same level as the rest. Pre

vious experiments have uniformly assigned a less ascent to aether
and spirit of wine than to water, and a greater ascent to sulphu

ric acid. M. Link is of opinion, that the experiments were not
carried far enough, and that the different results of his own ex
periments are attributable to the repeated wetting of the plates
by dipping them in the fluids. In another set of experiments
the plates were of various substances ; viz. glass, copper, zinc,
copper and zinc plates soldered together, first, with the zinc
surface opposed to the copper, next, the zinc surfaces opposed
to each other, and then the copper surfaces opposed ; lastly,
wooden surfaces smeared over with tallow. The heights of as
cent were very           the same for all these, excepting
tallow plates    nearly    give quite so high a column.       that the
                did not
                                                            It would
seem, then, that the heights of ascent under similar circumstances

are alike independent of the fluids and solids. It is remarkable
that this result might have been looked for from either Laplace's
or Poisson's theory : for by either theory the height of ascent
in a given capillary tube, or between parallel plates separated by

a given small interval, varies as -- , when the fluid completely

wets the solid* ; and as H, in this case, depends only on the

                         · Sec p. 263.

                                                                        '
294 FOURTH REPORT 1834.

molecular action of the parts of the fluid on each other*, the
simplest supposition respecting it is, that it varies as p ; whence
it would follow that the height of ascent is the same for different

fluids.

   In the applications of the theories of Laplace and Poisson to
Gay-Lussac's experiments on the ascents of fluids in capillary
tubes, and the weights of the fluid columns raised by circular

discs, the values of the constant  --2  for  the  different  fluids, were
                                   a

borrowed from the first class of experiments, and being em
ployed in                    formulae, gave results   according with
the other   the theoretical  values were incorrectly   determined by

           class. If those
the experiments, this accordance can only be explained by sup
posing the cause of error to be of the same kind and to act in
the same degree in the two classes of experiments.

   M. Link remarks that there is an essential difference between
the ascent of fluids against solid surfaces not previously wetted,
and the remaining height of suspension after the wetting. Tal
low, for instance, will scarcely allow water to ascend at all in the
first instance; but after being moistened, will sustain a suspended

column, of nearly the same height, according to the experiment
mentioned above, as when other substances are employed. The
theory of the first ascents, must be of a very complicated nature,

on account of the difficulty of estimating the amount of various
retarding causes, such as greasiness, and the inequalities of the
solid surfaces. But the theory of the remaining suspensions
that result from wetting the surfaces, is of a more simple nature.
M. Link adduces an explanation of this fact, founded on a theory
of fluidity developed in the first part of his paper, in which, set
ting out with Newton's definition of a fluid, he is led to regard
it as composed of solid particles in an extreme state of pulveriza
tion, and aggregated like the grains of a heap of sand. What
ever in other respects may be the comparative merits of this
view of the nature of fluidity, and that adopted by Young and
Poisson, the latter has the advantage of being more readily made
a basis of calculation.

                         · pp. 275 and 285.
                                      29.5

Report on the   PHrougmrepsshreanyd   Present   State  oMf .PRh.yIs. iAca.,l  Optics.
                                                                              Fellow
   By the Rev.                        Lloyd,   A.M.,
of Trinity College, and Professor of Natural and Experi
mental Philosophy in the University of Dublin.

IIn the Report which I have the honour to submit to the Associa

tion, have attempted to consider in some detail the present
state of our knowledge with regard to the physical theory of
light, and the successive advances which have, in late years,

Ibeen made towards its establishment. The method which
have thought it expedient to adopt in this review has been to
take, in the first instance, a rapid survey of the several leading
classes of optical phenomena, which the labours of experimental
philosophers have wrought out in such rich profusion, and after
wards to examine how far they are reducible to one or other of
the two rival theories which have alone advanced any claim to
our consideration. This is, in fact, the only way in which the
truth of a physical theory can be established ; and the argument
in its favour is essentially cumulative.
   But in making this comparison it is not enough to rest in
vague explanations which
Whatever be the apparent     s--mimaipyt liiscbietoynmloyofuwalndheehdnypiottothaesdusmiisti,tas--nyowf htmhaeateothvryee.r
it3 analog}' to known laws,

matical expression, and when its mathematical consequences
can be numerically compared with established facts, that its
truth can be fully and finally ascertained *. Considered in this
point of view, the wave-theory of light seems now to have

reached a point almost, if not entirely, as advanced as that to
which the theory of universal gravitation was pushed by the
single-handed efforts of Newton. Varied and comprehensive
classes of phnomena have been embraced in its deductions ;
and where its progress has been arrested, it has been owing
in a great degree to the imperfections of that intricate branch of
analysis by which it was to be unfolded. The principles of the
theory of emission, on the other hand, have, in comparatively

* C'est en tirant des formules les consequences lea plus subtiles et leg plus
cloignees des principes, puis allant les verifier par 1'experience, que Ton peut
reellement s'assurer si une  th6orie   est vraie ou fausse, et si Ton doit s'y   Conner
comme a mi guide fidele,     ou la    rejetcr cominc un svst6me trompcur.
                                                                                -- Biol,

Traite de Physique, torn. i. p. xiv.
296 FOURTH REPORT 1834.

few instances, been mathematically expressed and developed;
and accordingly this theory presents but rarely those points of
contact with experimental truth by which alone it can be judged.
This signal difference in the present state of the two theories
has been by some ascribed to a difference in the intellectual
power by which they have been worked ; and it has been said
that had the Newtonian theory been cultivated with the same
                                           it  might have had
zeal and  talent as the   Huygenian,           confess, appears  equal
triumphs  to boast of.   This position,     I                    to me
altogether untenable. With respect to the implied fact, it may
I Ibe enough to observe that Newton and Laplace were both en

gaged on one side of the question ; and believe may add that
among the supporters of the wave-theory of light there are few
who have not had to encounter early predilections in favour of
the theory of emission. The nature and laws of projectile
movement are far more familiar to every lover of mechanical
philosophy than those of vibratory propagation ; and the tri
umphant career of the former branch of this science, in its appli
cation to the movements of the heavenly bodies, is in itself
sufficient to induce every one to lean to a theory which proposes
to account for the phenomena of light on similar principles.
As to the opinion itself, it seems highly improbable, to say the
least, that two theories so widely separated should run hand in
       in their explanation  of phenomena.        There is indeed one
hand   and that a striking   one, of this kind    : --The fundamental
case,

laws of  reflexion     and refraction are  exact  and necessary  conse
quences  of each      of these theories ;         believe their  history
                                           but I

affords no parallel instance.
   An unfruitful theory may, however, be fertilized by the addi
tion of new hypotheses. By such subsidiary principles it may
be brought up to the level of experimental science, and appear
to meet the accumulating weight of evidence furnished by new
                      But a theory thus overloaded does not merit the
pnhaemneo.menIta. is  a union of unconnected principles, which can at
best be considered but as supplying the materials for a higher
generalization. Its very complexity furnishes a presumption
against its truth ; for the higher we are permitted to ascend in
the scale of physical induction, the more we perceive of that
harmony, and unity, and order, which must reign in the works
of One Supreme Author. The theory of emission, in its present
sasotpampteeea,trhe,inxghIibthsittisrnokna,glleturhpeotsnheansaymmfapeitrroemrpesrveiesouwfm,upnttsihooanutndianngeasasinlms;tosbtitu.tevtehIrteyrewiniilsl
stance in which it has been developed, its consequences are at
                            REFORT ON PHYSICAL OPTICS.                                          297

variance with facts ; and the proof of its insufficiency seems
even stronger than the positive evidence in favour of the rival

theory.
IIn proceeding to the consideration of these arguments, have
foundit necessary to deviatefrom the arrangement which a strictly
theoretical  view of        tothpehesnuobmjecetna,wowuhldichnaItuprraolplyosseugtgoescto. nsidTehre,
relation of  theory

obliges me to examine the latter in the groups in which they
Ihave been usually brought together, and under which their laws
have been investigated.     propose, therefore, to divide the fol
lowing Report into two parts ; of which the first will treat of

uI nsphoallal rcizoends,idaenrdsethpearasetecloyn, d of polarized, light. In the former

1 . The propagation of light, and the principle of interference ;
2. The reflexion and refraction of light ;
3 . Diffraction ;
4. The colours of thin and thick plates.

The second part will comprise,

    1. The polarization of light, and the principle of transversal
           vibrations ;

   2. The reflexion and refraction of polarized light ;
   3. Double refraction ;
   4. The colours of crystallized plates.

Many subjects of high interest are omitted in this arrangement,
parsesbeenitngRebpuot rrte.moItelhyavceonlenfetctwehdolwlyithuntthoeuchleeadd,ingforobthjeicst   of the
t"hamt abthraenmcahticoalf                                                                      reason,

                            optical science which is sometimes denominated
                            optics," or the development of the fundamental
laws of reflexion and refraction. The phenomena of vision
have been in like manner omitted, as involving also the science
of physiology ; and the relations of light to other agents, as

heat, electricity, and magnetism, because these relations are as
yet little understood, and in the present state of the kindred
sciences, the science of light can hope to derive little aid from
their examination. These interesting subjects would, each of
them, well merit a separate consideration.

                   Part I. Unpolarized Light.
     I. Propagation of Light. Principle of Interference.

   The first property of light which claims our notice is its pro
gressive movement. Light, we know, travels from one point
298 FOURTH REPORT -- 1834.

of space to another in time, with a velocity of about 195,000
miles in a second. The inquiry concerning the mode of this
propagation involves that respecting the nature of light itself.
There are two distinct and intelligible ways of conceiving such
a motion. Either it is the self-same body which is found at
different times in distant points of space ; or there are a mul
titude of moving bodies, occupying the entire interval, each of
which vibrates continually within certain limits, while the vi
bratory motion is communicated from one to another, and so
advances uniformly. Nature affords numerous examples of each
of these modes of propagated movement ; and in adopting one or
          oafctchoeunttwoforrivtahlesypshteenmosm, e--natheofthleigohrite,s               fall upon one
other to                                                                             we  Newton and of
or other                                                                             of

Huygens.
The Newtonian theory, in the shape in which it is usually
presented, is undoubtedly simpler in conception than its rival ;
but this simplicity is only apparent. Newton himself was
far too clear-sighted to suppose that the forces of attraction
and repulsion, by which the molecules of light were supposed to
be refracted and reflected, were adequate to account for all the
phenomena ; and it is remarkable that, when he proceeds to
speculate on the physical theory of light, he has found it neces
sary to admit all the apparatus required in the theory of waves.

In fact, Newton felt, and distinctly stated, that the vibrations
of an ethereal medium were necessary in his hypothesis *, al
though he denied that these vibrations constituted light. He
has even gone further, and asserted that they were the chief
and essential parts of that hypothesis, the molecules emitted
from luminous bodies only performing the office of exciting these
vibrations, as stones flung into water produce waves t- On the
other hand, the molecules themselves are supposed to be emitted
by a vibratory motion of the parts of the luminous body X ; -- the
same vibratory movement, though acting with a different energy,

in which he supposes heat to consist. It would appear, then,
      Newton                             too much, and that he erred against his
that  valuable    arsusluem: e"d        Causas rerum naturalinm non plures ad-
own

mitti debere," &c. Had he simply left out the molecular part of
his hypothesis, and supposed that the vibrations of his ethereal

gent·ePr"ahlWliyl.e, --rTersaoInastos.  1672.                  it should be this, if propounded more
                                        assume an hypothesis,  of
                                        not to determine what
                                                                       is,
                                                                                  ;
                                                               light further than that              something
                                                                                     it
                                                                                           it
                                                                                                is
or other capable                        exciting vibrations in the ether for thus will become so
X

                     of
general, and comprehensive of other hypotheses, as to leave little room for new                     p.
ones to be invented." -- Birch's History the Royal Society, vol. iii. 249.

      Optics, Query 8.
            RKORT ON PHYSICAL OPTICS.                                                              299

medium were directly excited by those of the luminous body,
his theory  would have  resolved itself into that of Huygens and
of Hooke.               observed, in connexion with this subject,
             It may be

that Newton seems actually to have admitted the wave-theory
with respect to radiant heat; and that he supposed it to be pro
pagated, not by the translation of material particles, but by the

vtwhiboaTurthaldetthioespneesrecamouysflitaaoornfoplefifagtehrhrtetaroenafarelethambseoyedthdcieeriusiotmrepyrr*ioo.ojenfctoeemfdiitsswsioittrnhu--tahg.trheeIaftstuvhpeeploowcseiittiygio--hnt
of a molecule of light amounted to one grain, its momentum
would equal that of a cannon ball 150 pounds in weight, and
moving with the velocity of 1000 feet in a second. The weight of
a single molecule may be supposed many millions of times less than
this ; but, on the other hand, millions of such molecules may be
made to act together, by concentrating them in the foci of lenses
or mirrors, and the effects of their impulse might, it was ex
pected, be thus rendered sensible. This easy test of the materi
ality of light was long since appealed to. The experiments of
Homberg seemed to have established the existence of a sensible

impulsive effect ; but when these experiments were repeated
with more caution by Mairan and Dufay, they conducted to the
opposite conclusion. The results obtained by Michell at a later
period, and with the aid of a more sensible apparatus than any
fbefore employed, seemed to be decisive in favour of the materi

ality of light . The effects observed in these experiments,
however, have been with much probability referred to aerial

currents, produced by unequal temperature, or even to a differ
ence in the elastic force of the air in contact with the opposite
surfaces of the body acted on \. The subsequent experiments

of Mr. Bennet were made under circumstances far more favour

able ; and in particular, having been repeated in vacuum, they
are independent of the sources of error now alluded to. Their
result was conclusive as to the non-existence of a sensible

effect §.
   The objection to the materiality of light, arising from its want

of sensible momentum, was first urged by Franklin. Horsley
tamitctaaeteml rcpiaatle,lcdumltaoutsirotenmbsoevooenflytehxgetordemtifofeicpumroltivnyeu|t|et;hnaebtsust.thheisIptlaarmbtiocurlsieotsuasot ftahlrieigthhstma,meief

time be confessed that objections of this nature are entitled to

· Optics, Query 18.
t
   YPoriuensgtley"'sOnHisthteoryTheoof rOyptoicfs,Ligph. t38a7n.d  Colours,"  Phil. Trans. 18'Jl.
t
§ Phil. Trans. 1792.                                               II lb. 1770. I.
300 fourth report -- 1834.

little weight. It is easy to attribute to the molecules of light a
minuteness sufficient to evade any means that we possess of
detecting their inertia by their effects upon other bodies ; and
in whatever point of view we regard the phenomena of optics,
we are forced to contemplate quantities immeasurably smaller
than any to which the imagination has been accustomed.
     The aberration of the light of the fixed stars, resulting from the
motion of the earth and that of light, is an easy consequence
of the theory of emission, in which these motions are con

ceived to subsist independently. In order to account for the
phenomenon in the theory of waves, it seems necessary to assume
that the ether which encompasses our globe does not participate
in its motion ; so that the ethereal current produced by this re

lative motion     must be supposed to                      have a free   poafssYaoguengt,hro"utghhe
the solid mass    of the earth ; or that,                  in the words

luminiferous ether pervades the substance of all material bodies
with little or no resistance, as freely perhaps as the wind passes
through a grove of trees*. Fresnel has maintained the same opi
nion, and, startling as the position seems at first, he has very
                                                         ;

                                                                          is
                                                                                           is
                                                                                                      it,
clearly shown that no fair argument can be advanced against
founded on the opacity of the mass which the ether supposed

to permeate  f.

                           a
     The discoveries of Bradley and Roemer, when compared to
gspeethcetirn,ghalivgehtle, d--tnoamefluy,rthtehratanitds
                                                           most important   conclusion re
                                                           velocity one     and the same,

whatever be the luminous origin the light of the sun, the fixed
stars, the planets and their satellites, being all propagated with
the same swiftness. This conclusion must be allowed to present
formidable difficulty in the theory of emission. Laplace has
a

              if
shown that the diameter of a fixed star were 250 times as great
as that of our sun, its density being the same, its attraction
would be sufficient to destroy the whole momentum of the
emitted molecules, and the star would be invisible at great di
             With smaller mass there will be corresponding
stances     %.                                                           a
                 ;

                               a
retardation so that the final velocities will be different, what
                                    The suggestion of M.
ever    be  the   initial.                                               Arago seems to
offer  the  only  means           of avoiding this difficulty.
                                                                           It may be sup
posed that the molecules of light are originally projected with
very different velocities but that among these velocities there
     but one which adapted to our organs of vision, and whichis
is
                      1.
    ·                         ;
      " Experiments and Calculations relative to Physical Optics," Phil. Trans.
1803." Sur lTnfliicnce du Mouvemcnt tcrrestrc dans quelquos PWnomSnesXf
d'Optiqne," Annates <h C/iimie, torn. ix.

       Zach, Ephem., iv.
                   REPORT ON PHYSICAL OPTICS.                           301

produces the sensation of light. This supposition seems to be
supported by the discoveries of Herschel, Wollaston, and Ritter,
respecting the invisible rays of the spectrum ; but it does not
appear to be easily reconciled with any hypothesis which we are
able to frame respecting the nature of vision. This uniformity
of velocity, on the other hand, is a necessary consequence of
the principles of the wave-theory. The velocity with which
vibratory movement is propagated in an elastic medium depends
solely on the elasticity of      that  medium  and on its density ; and
                                 vast  spaces  which intervene between
if these be uniform in the

the material bodies of the universe, (and it is not easy to sup
pose it otherwise,) the velocity must be the same, whatever be

the originating source.         of light has long   tbheeeonryurogef dwainvefsa. vouIfr
   The rectilinear motion         and against the
of the theory of emission,
light consists in the undulations of an elastic fluid, has been
said,) should be propagated in all directions from every new*,
acentre, and so bend round interposed obstacles. Thus luminous
                                                         a
     itobjects should be visible, even when an opake body between
                                                           is (it
                ;them and the eye, just as sounding bodies are heard, though a
dense body intervene between them and the ear. To this ob
            isjection, which was first insisted on by Newtonfull answer

has been given. The phenomena of diffraction, and especially
the interior fringes in the shadow of narrow opake bodies, prove
that light does bend round obstacles, and deviate perceptibly
from the rectilinear course. When the obstacle is of consider

able dimensions, the intensity of the light decreases, indeed,
very rapidly within the edge of the geometric shadow so that
at very small distance from that edge,         it it
                                                    no longer percep
                                                     is

                                                                  it ;
tible. But the darkness does not arise from the absence of

luminiferous waves, but from the mutual destruction of those

sent there. In fact, the surface of the wave when reaches
                         of if
the obstacle be divided into any number of small portions, the
motion of the ether at any point behind is, by the principle of
                                all the motions produced there by
Huygens, the sum
these several portions, considered as separate centres of dis
                             easy to show, that, when the distance of
turbance and       a it  is

the point in question from the obstacle             is      large multiple
                                                         a

of the length of wave, the magnitude of this resultant must
diminish rapidly within the shadow, and the light become
insensible when the line drawn from that point to the edge of
the screen inclined at small angle to the normal to the front
of the wave. The accurate calculation of the intensity, in this*a

                                 Optics, Query 28.
302 FOURTH REPORT -- 1834.

 and other similar cases, has been made by Fresnel by the aid
of the principle of interference, and the result is found to agree
in the most complete manner with observation*.

    The same principles apply to the aerial waves which consti

tute sound, and these too should present analogous phenomena.

But the scale is widely different. The length of an aerial wave
is more than 10,000 times greater than that of an ethereal un
dulation ; and the distance of the ear from the obstacle must be
augmented in the same proportion, in order that the same con
clusions may be applicable to the two cases.

    According to this account, then, the right-lined propagation
of the rays of light is a consequence of the principle of inter
ference, combined with the principle of Huygens. A very
different view of the subject, however, has been presented by

M. Poisson, in a memoir on the propagation of motion in elastic

fluids, read before the French Academy in the year 1823f. The
elasticity of the fluid being supposed the same in all directions,
the velocity of propagation will be also the same, and conse
quently the waves spherical. The absolute velocities of the mo

lecules themselves, however, will be very different. M. Poisson

finds that when the original disturbance takes place only in one
direction, the velocity of the molecules will be indefinitely small
in all directions inclined to it at finite angles, so that the motion
will not be sensibly propagated except in that direction. This
diminution of intensity, he finds, will be greater the more rapid
the velocity of propagation ; and it is in this manner only, he
concludes, that we can account for the rectilinear motion of
light in the wave-theory. This conclusion however, M. Fresnel
has shown, is contradicted by the ordinary phenomena of dif
fraction ; and he has adduced theoretical reasons, drawn from the
principle of the coexistence of small motions, to prove that it
cannot hold in any fluid whatever, but that the molecules are in
all cases disturbed in a sensible manner, in directions very much

inclined to that of the original vibrations J.

   The principle of the superposition of small motions, which has
been more than once adverted to, is an immediate consequence of
the linearity of the original equation of partial differences which
determines the law of vibration of an ethereal particle. The
complete integral of this equation will contain, in general, a term
for every distinct original disturbance ; and the total disturbance
will be the sum of all the partial disturbances due to each cause
acting separately. The partial disturbances may, however, con-

f* " M6moire sur In Diffraction," Mfanoires de I'lnstllut, tom. v.
Annulet de Chimie, tom. xxii.  J Ibid., tom, xxiii.
REPORT ON PHYSICAL OPTICS.                                303

spire, or be opposed ; so that in the case of two such disturb
ances, for example, the second may have the effect either of aug
menting or diminishing the first, and the absolute velocity of the
ethereal molecules may be increased, or lessened, or even wholly
destroyed by the union. In fact, if the form of the function
which expresses the wave-disturbance, be assumed to be that
by which the law of vibration of the cycloidal pendulum is re
presented, the sum of two coexisting disturbances will be a sin
gle disturbance of the same form, provided the component un
dulations have the same length ; and the effect of two such co
existing undulations will be a single undulation of the same
length, but differing in the position and magnitude of the space
of greatest vibration from either of the components. The mag
nitude of the resulting vibration may be the sum, or difference
of those of the component vibrations, or it may have any value
intermediate to these limits. When the component vibrations
are equal, the resultant may even vanish altogether ; and two
lights of equal intensity when added together will produce
darkness, provided that the interval of retardation of one wave
polneTtohhifesinoitmtehrpefeorrretisnacnaetncooodfndtsheemquruaelyntiscpeloeoffoltihfgehthtteh--elewonraygstohffirwsoatfvdheiasslt--finatchtwelyapvsreti.antceid
and established by Dr. Thomas Young, although some of the
facts by which its truth is experimentally confirmed were known
to Grimaldi*. The general calculation of the intensity of the
resulting light, for any relative position of the interfering waves,
is due to Fresnel ; and has been followed out and developed by

Sir John Herschel in his valuable Essay on Light. When a
beam of homogeneous light is transmitted through two small
Ifapertures in a card, or plate of metal, the light will diverge from
each as from a new centre.  the two apertures are close toge

ther, and the diverging pencils received on a reflecting surface,
a series of parallel straight bands is observed, perpendicular to
the line connecting the apertures, and separated by intervals
absolutely dark. That these alternations of light and darkness
are produced by the mutual action of the two pencils, Young
proved by the fact, that when one of the beams is intercepted,
the whole system of fringes instantly disappears, and the dark
intervals recover their former brightness.
   The experiment of Fresnel is still more satisfactory.  In this

important and instructive experiment, the fact of interference is
placed beyond all question. The two pencils proceed from one

   * This ingenious philosopher even stated explicitly that an illuminated body
may be rendered darker by the addition of light, and adduced a simple experi
ment in proof of it. Physico-Matherit de Lumine. Bologna, 1665.
.'JOI FOURTH REPORT 1834.

common origin, and are separated simply by reflexion at plane
surfaces, without any attending circumstance which can, by
possibility, be supposed to influence the result. The pheno
menon is thus divested of everything nonessential, and it
becomes impossible to hesitate about its nature. But the ac
cordance of theory and experiment is maintained, not only in
the general features of the phenomenon, but even in its minu
test details. The distances of the points of each fringe from the
tawcoonfsotcaintofqrueaflnetcitteyd, --rathyast  should, according
                                                  constant being an  to theory, differ   by
                                                                     odd multiple of    the

length of half a wave for the dark fringes, and an even multiple
of the same quantity for the bright ones. Hence the fringes
should        prreofpleacgtaetdedpeinncilshy;p--erabnodlic
foci of  be                                                   lines, whose foci are the
         the                                                the most accurate measure

ments have shown that it is so. The constant differences jus',

alluded to are far too minute to be directly measured ; but they
can be calculated with great accuracy, when the distances of the
successive bands from the central one have been obtained. The

latter distances have been determined by Fresnel with much
nicety by micrometrical measurements ; and the lengths of the
waves of each species of simple light, thence computed, agree
in the most satisfactory manner with the values of the same quan
tities as deduced from the observation of Newton's rings.
The central fringe is formed at those points in arriving at
which the two pencils have traversed equal paths ; and as its
position is therefore independent of the length of a wave, the
rays of all colours will be united there, and the fringe itself will
be white, or colourless. Such is the fact, as described by Fresnel
himself, and by most observers who have repeated the experi
ment. Mr. Potter states, however, as the result of his obser
vations, that the central fringe may be seen both black and white,
although more frequently the former ; and he urges the fact in
opposition to the wave- theory*. But it seems premature to
draw any inference from such experiments, until the circum
stances which have occasioned the variation in the results have

been fully investigated and understood.
The interference of the rays of light has, since the decisive
experiment of Fresnel, been admitted on all hands ; and the
               which                                                  on the Newtonian
phenomena     of the  "wfeitrse   previously explained               transmission," are
hypothesis                       of easy reflexion and

now, by most of the advocates of the Newtonian theory, referred
to this simpler and more fertile principle. This principle is,
it has been stated, an immediate and necessary consequence of
the wave-theory, and its experimental establishment must be

              · Phil. Mag., (3rd Series,) vol. ii. p. 2S0.
                     REPORT OX PHYSICAL OPTICS.                                                                       305

regarded as a weighty argument in favour of that theory. It now

remains to inquire whether any account can be given of it in the
theory of emission.
The molecules of light cannot be supposed to exert any
mutual influence ; for the regularity of the laws of reflexion

and refraction compels us to consider them as independent,
and each, separately, the subject of those forces from which,
in the theory of emission, these laws are derived. The phe
nomenon of interference may, however, be plausibly accounted
for by the vibrations of the optic nerve, produced by the
impulse of the rays of light upon the retina ; and by the
accordance or discordance of these vibrations when caused by
two interfering pencils. On this supposition, which was sug
gested by Dr. Young himself, the intensity of the light will de
pend on the relation between the time of vibration of the optic
          and the interval of the    impulses of
nerve,                                to the time  the succeeding                                                      parti
cles.     If this interval be equal                of vibration, or                                                   to any
multiple of it, the second impulse will add its effect to that of
the first, and the motion be accumulated. It will, on the other
hand, be destroyed, if the second impulse follows the first at an
interval equal to half that time.

   It is here assumed that the emitted particles succeed one
another at equal intervals, as will be the case if their emission
be owing (as Newton supposed it to be) to a vibratory motion of
the parts of the luminous body. But we must assume further
that the intervals of emission vary with the nature of the par
ticles, in the light of different colours; or that all the red-

making particles (to use an expression of Newton) are emitted
at one certain interval, all the blue-making at another ; and so for
each different species of simple light. Hence the vibrations of
the parts of the luminous body must be of different periods for
the light of different colours. This is, in truth, a part, and a
necessary part, of the theory of waves ; but it has no connexion
whatever with the principles of the rival theory.

          II. Reflexion and Refraction of Light.
To account for the phenomena of reflexion and refraction it
is supposed, in the
and those of light   etNhxeeiswrttaocantiiomannutitushaealotatrrycat,icotthnivae;t--,th--tehtpahata,rtt,wicahletesna  of bodies
nearly in contact,
a little                                                                                                               they are
one, --                                                                                                                distance

           greater,  the attractive force is changed into a repulsive
          and that   these attractive and repulsive forces succeed one

another probably for many alternations. The absolute values,
or intensities, of these forces are different in different bodies ;
                                     x
1834.
306 FOURTH REPORT 1834.

but the form of the law, or the function of the distance by which
they are expressed, is assumed to be the same for all*. From
these postulates Newton has rigorously deduced the laws of re
flexion and refraction. The problem is the first in which the
effects of that important class of forces acting only at insensible
distances have been submitted to calculation ; and the solution
is regarded by M. Poisson as forming an era in the history of

science.

The reflexion of light at the exterior surface of dense media
is ascribed to the repulsive force ; refraction and internal re
flexion, to that inner attractive force which extends up to actual
contact. The outermost sphere of action of every body, in this
theory, is necessarily attractive, as well as the inmost ; for, were
it otherwise, no ray could enter, or emerge from, the medium at
an extreme incidence. Sir David Brewster has made an inge
nious use of this principle to explain the remarkable fact noticed
by Bouguer, that water is more reflective than glass at oblique

incidences.
But though the theory of emission is perfectly successful in
explaining the laws of reflexion and refraction, considered as
distinct phenomena, yet it is by no means equally so in account
ing for their connexion and mutual dependence. When a beam
of light is incident on the surface of any transparent medium,
part is, in all cases, transmitted, and part reflected. The in
tensity of the reflexion is in general less, the less the difference
of the refractive indices of the two media ; and accordingly the
                                              such be the cause of the phe
reflective and refractive forces
                     ?

                       a

                                ;

                                         (if
nomena,) are related to one another in all media, so that one                            .  is
increases or diminishes along with the otherf But how                                          it
that some of the molecules obey the influence of the repulsive
force, and are reflected while others yield to the attractive force,
                                         To account for this, Newton was obliged
and are refracted                        hcyeprtoathinespise. rioTdhiecaml oslteacteusle,scaollfeldigh"t

to have recourse to new                                                                                   are
supposed to pass through                                                                                  fits

of easy reflexion and transmission," which    modify the                                    effects of
the attractive and repulsive forces, and in   which they
                                                                                            are dis

This assumption                          tacitly made by Newton, when he takes the function
f*

                        a
                                     is
~ ^ the measure of the refractive power. See H erschel's " Essay on

Light," Encyc. Met.                                                                      matter connected with
       The reader  will find             SmirucDhavnidoveBlrewanstder,int"erOesntitnhge  Reflexion and Decom
this subject in    paper by
position of Light at the separating surface of media of the same and of differ
ent refractive powers," Phil. Tram. 1829.
REPORT ON PHYSICAL OPTICS.                 307

posed to yield alternately to one or the other. The actual deter
mination of the particle will depend, partly on the phase of the
fit, and partly on the obliquity under which it meets the bound
ing surface. Now the molecules composing a beam of light are
supposed to be in every possible phase of their fits, when they
reach the surface : some of them consequently will be reflected,
and others refracted ; and the proportion of the former to the
latter will depend on the incidence.

   As to the fits themselves, Newton thought they must be re
ferred to a vibratory motion in the ether, excited by the rays
themselves ; just as a stone flung into water raises waves on its
surface. This vibratory motion is supposed to be propagated
faster than light itself, and thus to overtake the molecules, and
impress upon them the disposition in question by conspiring
with or opposing their progressive motion. In one of his
queries Newton has even calculated the lesser limit of the elas
ticity of the ether, as compared with that of air, in order that
it should have so great a velocity of propagation*. The hypo
thesis of Mr. Melville and M. Biot is more in accordance with
the spirit of the theory of emission. The molecules of light are
supposed, in this hypothesis, to have a rotatory motion round
their centres of gravity which continues along with the progres
sive motion, and in virtue of which they present attracting and
repelling poles alternately during their progress in spacef.
Boscovich imagined a vibratory motion in the parts of the ray
itself, which it received at the moment of emission, and retained
in its progress^.

    The theory of the fits has now lost much of its credit, since
the phenomena of the colours of thin plates, phenomena which
first suggested it to the mind of Newton, have been shown to be
irreconcileable with it. The explanation which it gives of the
facts now under consideration is, as was observed by Young and
Fresnel, inconsistent with the regularity of refraction. In fact,
the molecules which are transmitted, are not all in the maxi
mum of the fit of transmission, but are supposed to reach the
surface in very different phases of this, which may be denomi
nated the positive fit. Now as a change of the fit from positive
to negative is, in general, sufficient to overcome altogether the
effect of the attractive force, and subject the molecule to the
repulsive, it is obvious that the phase of the fit must modify the
effects of these forces in every intermediate degree ; and that the
molecules which do obey the attractive force must have their
velocities augmented in different degrees, depending on the

· Optics, Query 21.  + Phil. Trans. 1753.  Traiti de Physique, iv. p. 245.

x2X Philosophite Naturalis Theoria.
308 FOURTH REPORT -- 1834.

phase. Consequently, as the direction of the refracted ray de
pends on its velocity, the transmitted beam will consist of rays
refracted in widely different angles, and will be scattered and

irregular.

   In some of his writings Newton attributes the reflexion and

refraction of light to a difference in the density of the ether
within and without bodies ; or rather he refers the attractive

and repulsive forces to this, as to a more general principle. The
ether is supposed to be rarer within dense bodies than without,
and the rays of light, in crossing the bounding surface, are
pushed from the side of the denser ether ; so that their motion

is accelerated if they pass from the rarer to the denser body,

and retarded in the opposite case. Reflexion at the surface of
the rarer medium is explained on the same suppositions ; but,
to account for the ordinary reflexion by a denser medium,
Newton was obliged to introduce new and gratuitous hypotheses
respecting the constitution of the ether at the confines of two
media in which its density is different*.

   The velocity of propagation, in the wave-theory of light, de
pends solely on the elasticity of the vibrating medium as com
pared with its density. If, then, a plane wave be incident ob
liquely on the bounding surface of two media, it is obvious that
its several portions will reach that surface at different moments
of time ; and each of these portions will become the centre of two
spherical waves, one of which will be propagated in the first me
dium with the original velocity, while the other will be propa
gated in the new medium, and with the velocity which belongs
to it. But, by the principle of the coexistence of small motions,
the agitation of any particle of either medium is the sum of the
agitations sent thereat the same instant from these several cen
tres of disturbance ; and the surfaces on which they are accumu
lated at any instant will be the reflected and refracted waves.
These surfaces are those which touch all the small spherical
waves at any instant. It is easy to see that they are both plane;
and that the reflected wave is inclined to the surface at the same
angle as the incident wave, while the sine of the angle of incli -
nation of the refracted wave is to that of the incident in the con
stant ratio of the velocities of propagation in the two media.

    Such is the demonstration of the laws of reflexion and re

ffraction given by Huygens . The composition of the grand, or

primary wave, by the union of the several secondary or partial
waves, in this demonstration, has been denominated the princi
ple of Huygens ; and it is obviously a case of the more general

f* Birch's History of the Royal Society, vol. iii. p. 247.  Optics, Query 19.

   Traiti de la Lumiere.
                   RBPORT ON PHYSICAL OPTICS.                                              309

principle of the coexistence of small motions. It easily follows
from this mode of composition, that the surface of the primary
wave must mark the extreme limits to which the vibratory move
ment is propagated in any direction, in any given time ; so that
light, according to this theory, is propagated from any one point
to another in the least possible time. This is the well-known

law of Fermat, the law of swiftest propagation, and it will rea

dily appear that it holds, whatever be the number of modifica
tions which the course of the light may undergo by reflexion or
refraction ; as, likewise, whatever be the form of the elemen

tary wave.
    The demonstration of Huygens has been thrown into an
analytical form by Lagrange*, but he has added nothing to its
rigour or perspicuity. An important supplement to the demon
stration was however given by Fresnel. From the reasoning of
Huygens it did not appear what became of those portions of
the secondary waves which did not conspire in the formation of
the grand wave. The crossing of these in all directions ought
to give rise to a weak diffused light, filling the entire space be
tween the grand wave and the reflecting or refracting surface ; 1
and, in fact, Huygens supposed that such a light did actually
exist, but was too feeble to affect the eye. Fresnel has shown,
however, that all those portions which do not conspire in the

fformation of the grand wave, are destroyed by interference ;

so that the formation of one grand wave, by the union of an in
definite number of lesser waves, becomes a precise and definite

effect.

    The total reflexion of light at the surface of a rarer medium
has been urged by Newton against the wave-theory, and the
                                                                                         in inducing
apparent difficulty seems               to have  had much      weight                    perceive at
him to reject that theory.                       in fact, not  easy to
                                          It   it is,
                                                     is

                                                            a

                                                                           is

                                                                                        a
first view wry the disturbance of the ether within the denser
medium shOi not be communicated to the external ether, and
    t
a wave be thus propagated to the eye, whatever be the obliquityis
of the incident wave. To this may be enough to reply, thatd
the law of refraction itself, in all its generality,
                                    la                                                     necessary
consequence of the wave- theory; and therefore that the phe
nomenon of total reflexion, which                    particular case of that
                                                 But the principle      of interfer
law,       likewise accounted for.               to the difficulty.
ence     furnishes a direct answer                                       It can be

shown that the elementary waves, which are propagated into the
rarer medium from the several points of the bounding surface,

    * " Sur la Thfioric dc la Lmnidrc d'Hnygcns," Annaies de Chim., tom, xxi,
                                                     Systcme des Ondes," Annalti tU
    "Explication de Refraction dans              la

Chlmie, tom. xxi.
310 FOURTH REPORT -- 1834.

destroy one another by interference, when the sine of the angle
of incidence is greater than the ratio of the velocities of propa

gation in the two media, or the angle itself greater than the li
miting angle of total reflexion*. It is here supposed that

the distance from the refracting surface is a large multiple
of the length of a wave. The conclusion does not apply
to points very near that surface ; and for such points, there
is reason to think, the law of refraction is more complicated.
Experience shows, in fact, that light may issue from the

denser medium, to an     aanpgplerecoiaf btleotadlisrtaenflceex,ionw.henIfthtewoincpidriesnmces,
exceeds the limiting

whose bases are slightly convex, be put together, and the
inclination of these bases gradually changed while we look
through them, it will be observed that, beyond the limiting
angle, the light will still be transmitted in the neighbourhood
of the parts in contact. By measuring the breadth of this space,
and comparing it to the diameters of the coloured rings, Fresnel
found that the interval of the glasses, through which this devia
tion from the ordinary law of refraction occurred, exceeded the

length of a wavef . The analysis of M. Poisson points also to
the same result, and it is proved that the second medium will

be agitated in the part immediately in contact with the first, this
agitation decreasing rapidly and becoming insensible at a very
minute distance from the surface.

The laws of reflexion and refraction, then, follow from the

theory of waves, whether we suppose the vibrating medium, in
dense bodies, to be the body itself, the ether withinit, ;or both

                                             a

                                                              it,
                                                                 it

                                                                       it,
                                                                                is
conjointly. Euler maintained the first of these opinions, and

believed that light was propagated through the gross particles
alone, in the same manner as sound. But this hypothesis

contradicted by the most obvious facts and according to  as

Dr. Young has observed, the refraction of the rays of light in
our atmosphere should be million times greater than is. Of
itthe other two opinions, Young seems to have held the latter,
and to have thought that the molecules of the body formed, to
         legether with those of the ether withincompound vibrating
                      amedium, which was denser than the ether alone, but not more
elastic. Others, lastly, attribute the propagation of light in
transparent bodies to the vibrations of the ether alone, that fluid
being retained by the attraction of the body in state of greater
                                       a

density within than in free space.

   A very different view of this subject has been recently main-

  · See Fresnel " Sur    Systeme des Vibrations lumineuses," Biiliolhique

Umverselle, torn. xxii.

  ilbid.
                    REPORT ON PHYSICAL OPTICS.                                   311

tained by Mr. Challis. Assuming that the density of the ether
is the same in solid media as in free space, (an assumption
which he seems to think required by the phenomenon of aberra
tion,) this mathematician conceives that the reflexion of light,
and its retardation in the denser medium, may be both accounted
for by the reflexions which the ethereal waves undergo from
the solid particles of the medium which they encounter in their
progress *. He shows, in fact, that the absolute velocities
impressed upon the ethereal particles by such reflexion may be
resolved into two parts, one of which is propagated uniformly,
and is accompanied by a change of density ; while the other is

propagated instantaneously, without change of density f. The

former of these, he thinks, will account for the reflexion of light,
the latter for the diminished velocity of transmission^. This
ingenious theory has the advantage of connecting the velocity of
propagation in dense bodies directly with their constitution, and
so of advancing a step in the process of physical induction. On
the other hand, it requires us to admit that the particles of ether
and those of gross bodies exert no mutual action of any kind.
We know too little of the ether, or of its properties, to deny this,
simply because it is unsupported by any of the properties of
matter hitherto revealed ; but it must at the same time be ad
mitted that the violation of such analogies furnishes an argument
of some weight against the theory which demands them.

    Whatever supposition we may frame respecting the constitu
tion of bodies, or of the ether within them, in the wave-theory,
it must be such that the velocity of propagation is less in the
denser medium. In the theory of emission, on the other hand,
it is the reverse ; so that although it conducts to the same result,
it does so by an opposite route. Here, then, the rival theories are
at issue upon a matter of fact ; and we have only to ascertain

· This manner of conceiving the reflexion of light, in the wave-theory, was
that originally entertained by Fresnel, and was put forward in a memoir read
to the French Academy in 1819.
t Phil. Mag., New Series, vol. xi.
t The mean effect of these reflexions, Mr. Challis shows, is equivalent to
that of a retarding force ; and, by a certain supposition respecting its value,
-he has arrived at the following simple formula for the determination of the ratio
of the velocities of propagation  in   free     space  and  in  the  medium
in which S denotes the density    /**        1                       a constant
                                  of            = ftl  H;       H

                                       the medium, and                           proportional
--to the mean retardin,,gseffecJt of a given number of its molecules. For the gases,
then, the quantity  r is nearly constant, whatever be the compression.
                    o

This result is a very simple consequence of the theory of emission ; its ex
perimental truth has been established by MM. Biot and Arago. Phil. May., New
Series, vol. vii.
312 FOURTH REPORT -- 1834.

this fact, in order to be able to decide between them. This
seemed to be accomplished by the reasonings of Young. From
the laws of interference it appears that homogeneous light,
in its progress in space, passes through certain periodically re
turning states, the intervals of which are constant in the same
medium ; while in different media they are proportional to the
velocities of propagation, since the number of such intervals in
a given quantity of light cannot be supposed to vary. Now it
followed from the experiments of Newton that the intervals,
by which he explained the phenomena of thin plates, were di
minished in the denser medium; and as these intervals have

been shown by Young to be identical with those deduced from
the law of interference, it followed that the velocity of light was
slower in the denser medium *. Newton had even found the

ratio of the magnitudes of the intervals to be the same with that

of the sines of incidence and refraction ; and this is precisely as
it should be on the principles of the wave-theory.
   But the retardation of light in
                                    Ifthe denser medium     has been
directly established by M. Arago.           two pencils be   made to

interfere and produce fringes, as in the experiment of Fresnel,

and if a thin plate of a denser medium be interposed in the
path of one of them, the whole system of fringes will be shifted
to one side or the other, according as the light has been accele
rated or retarded within the plate. The result of this import
ant and decisive experiment was in favour of the theory of

waves f.

   The refractive index being equal to the ratio of the velocities
of light in the two media, direct or inverse, it follows, which
ever theory we adopt, that any change in the velocity of the in
cident ray must cause a variation in the amount of refraction,
unless the velocity of the refracted ray be altered proportionally.
Now the relative velocity of the light of a star is altered by the
earth's motion ; and the amount of the change is obviously the
resolved part of the earth's velocity in the direction of the star.

It was therefore a matter of much interest to determine how,
and in what degree, this change affected the refraction. By the
observation of this effect, it was hoped, we should have an easy
and accurate method of determining the constant of aberration ;
we should be enabled to compare the light of different stars,
and detect any difference which might exist in their velocities ;
and lastly, we might compare these velocities with that of light

* " Experiments and Calculations relative to Physical Optics," Phil. Trans.

1803.                     torn. i. See also the account  of Mr. Potter's repeti
                          PAH. Map., vol. iii. p. 3oo.
  t Annates tie Chimie,

tion of this experiment,
                   REPORT ON PHYSICAL OPTICS.                          313

emanating from other sources. The experiment was undertaken
by M. Arago, at the request of Laplace*. An achromatic
prism was attached in front of the object-glass of the telescope
of a repeating circle, so as to cover only a portion of the lens.
The star being then observed directly through the uncovered
part of the lens, and afterwards in the direction in which its
light was deviated by the prism, the difference of the angles
read off gave the deviation. The stars selected for observation
were those in the ecliptic, which passed the meridian nearly at
6 a.m. and 6 p.m., the velocity of the earth being added to
that of the star in the former case, and subtracted from it in
the latter. No difference whatever was observed in the devia
tions ; and the result was the same whatever was the origin of

flight . Fraunhofer has likewise compared the light of several

of the fixed stars with respect to its refrangibility. No differ

ence whatever was observed, although the method employed
was adequate to the detection of a difference so small as the

10,000th part of the whole refraction nearly J.

   This remarkable and unexpected result can be reconciled to
the theory of emission §, as M. Arago has observed, only by

the hypothesis already adverted to, namely, that the molecules
are emitted from the luminous body with various velocities ; but
that among these velocities there is but one which is adapted to
our organs of vision, and which produces the sensation of light.

IfThe wave-theory has been more successful in its explanation.

the ether which encompasses our globe were like its atmosphere,
and partook of its motion, the refraction would be precisely the

same as if the whole were at rest. This however, we have seen,

cannot be the case ; and the phenomena of aberration compel
us to admit that the ethereal medium which encompasses the
earth is not displaced by its motion. This being assumed, it
follows that the ether which is carried along by the refracting
medium, is that which constitutes the excess of its density above

    · The idea of detecting a difference in the velocity of the light of the fixed
stars, by its effect upon the amount of refraction, seems to have first occurred
to Mr. Michell. Such a difference of velocity, he conceived, must necessarily
arise from the different attractions of the stars upon the emitted molecules; and
he has computed the diminution of the original velocity of emission arising
from this cause. Phil. Trans. 1784.
Jf Biot, Astronomic Physique, vol. iii.

   Edinb. Journ. of Science, viii. p. 7.
§ M. Prevost has endeavoured to reconcile the experimental result of M.
Arago with the ordinary suppositions of the theory of emission, and to show that
a change in the relative velocity of the light of the stars, caused by the motion
of the refracting                                          refraction  in the same manner as an
equal change of    plane, does   nvoetlocaiftfye,ct--th"e  De l'Effct  du Mouvcmcnt d'un plan
                   the absolute

refringent sur la Refraction," Gene va Memoirs, vol. i. His reasonings do not

appear to be conclusive.
314 FOURTH REPORT 1834.

that of the surrounding ether. On this supposition Fresnel has
calculated the length of a wave in the moving medium, and
thence also the actual change in the direction of the refracted
ray produced by the earth's motion *. This change is found to
be opposite, and exactly equal to that produced by the same
cause in the apparent direction of the ray ; so that the ray is

actually seen in the same direction as if the earth were at rest,

and the apparent refraction is unaltered by the earth's motion.
These results, it may be observed, are precisely the same for
terrestrial objects, the velocity of wave-propagation being inde
pendent of the motion of the luminous body.
     Newton thought that the different refrangibility of the rays of

light could be explained by supposing simply that they were
bodies of different sizes, the red being greatest and the violet

least. It is obvious, however, that this supposition can have no
reference to the simple projectile hypothesis held by his followers,
or to the   demonstration of        the law of refraction given in
Principia.                          with that more complex theory,                                 the
              It is connected                                                                       in

which the molecules of light are supposed to excite the vibrations
of the ether in the bodies which they meet.
   M. de Courtivron and Mr. Melville proposed to account
for the dispersion of light by a difference in the initial velocity
of the molecules, the red being swiftest and the violet slowest.
But were such the cause of the phenomenon, the dispersion

should be proportionate to the mean refraction. Indeed the
hypothesis was abandoned almost as soon as proposed. Its
authors had foreseen the consequence that, in the eclipses of
Jupiter's satellites, the colour of the light should vary just before
f,immersion, and after emersion ; and the existence of such an
effect, in the degree indicated by theory                   was completely dis
proved by the observations of Mr. Shorty. Another conse
quence of such a difference in the initial velocities of the light of
different colours is, that the aberration of the fixed stars should

also vary with the nature of the light, and each star appear as a

     * The sine of the change is to the sine of the total deviation of the ray in the
ratio of the velocity of the earth           of light.      itsFerlef stonetlh'sis.r--esu"ltSiusr
complicated, but it will be easily  to that  reduce                                                much more
                                    seen to                                                         l'lnfluence

du Mouvement terrestre dans quelqucs Phenomenes d'Optiquc," Annales de
fChimie, torn. ix.
      The duration of this change, according to Mr. Melville, should amount
to thirty-two seconds, the   invdeilcoecsi.ty--o(fPhthile.  light of different colours being in
versely as their refractive                                 Trans. 1753.) This principle, how

ever, as  M. Clairaut has shown     (Phil. Trans. 1754), is    obviously incorrect.
          easily appear that the      initial velocities must    vary inversely as
It will

the quantity ^/fi* -- 1, in order to account for dispersion; and that the dura
tion of the expected phenomenon must be even greater than that assigned
by'  Mr. Melville.
     t Phil. Trans.
                     1753.
                 REPORT ON PHYSICAL OPTICS.                                       315

coloured spectrum, whose length is parallel to the direction of
the earth's motion.

According to the modern advocates of the theory of emission,
the molecules of light are heterogeneous ; and the attractions
exerted on them by bodies vary with their nature, and are, in
this respect, analogous to chemical affinities. This supposition,
however, as Dr. Young has justly observed, is but veiling our
inability to assign a mechanical cause for the phenomenon.

   It is remarkable that Newton himself was the first to suggest
that part of the wave-theory, in which the colour of the light is
           to    be determined              by   twheavfere*qu; enacnyd           of the ethereal vibra
supposed   by    the length of              the                                   the addition has been
tions, or
received by all its supporters. But observation proves that the
refractive index, or the ratio of the velocities of propagation,
in the two media, is different for the light of different colours.
The advocates of the wave-theory, therefore, are forced to con
clude that the velocity of propagation in refracting media varies
with the length of the wave. Here, then, we encounter a diffi
culty in this theory, which has been regarded as the most for
midable obstacle to its reception. Theory indicates that the
velocity of wave-propagation is constant in the same medium,
depending solely on the elasticity of the medium as compared
with its density. That velocity, therefore, should be the same
for light of all colours, as it is found to be for sound of all notes.

   Various attempts have been made to solve this difficulty f.

Euler thought that the successive waves underwent an increase
of velocity arising from their mutual action ; and this increase
he supposed to vary with their length, the waves of greatest
length undergoing the least augmentation of velocity, and

being therefore most refracted J. But the phenomena of coloured

rings, as Euler perceived, compel us, on the contrary, to sup
pose that the lengths of the waves diminish as the refrangibility
increases ; and he seems himself to have abandoned his first

conjecture.

   Dr. Young accounted for dispersion by the supposition that
the solid particles of the refracting substance vibrate, as well as
the particles of the ether within it ; and that the former vibra
tions affect the latter, and affect them differently according to

· Phil. Trans. 1672.
t It is scarcely necessary to advert here to the law proposed by M. Rudbcrg,
to connect the   l;e--ngfothr sthoisf   an  undulation, or the velocities           of propagation, in
different media                        law  is purely hypothetical, and           its apparent consist

ency with observation  has             exaprriseesnsions.ol--elyAnfnroamies  the  adaptation of the arbitrary
constants which enter  the                                                    de  Chimie, tom, xxxvi. xxxvii.

X Opuscula varii /trgumenti, tom. i. p. 217.
316 FOURTH RETORT-- 1834.

their frequency. Mr. Challis has adopted and developed this
hypothesis. According to this author, it has been already ob
served, the diminished velocity of transmission in the denser
medium may be explained by the obstacle which the solid
Ifparticles of the medium offer to the free movement of the
ethereal particles.  the former be supposed to be immoveable,
the ratio of the velocities of propagation, in free space and in
the medium, will be a simple function of the density of the
latter, and in a given medium its value will be constant ; but
when the particles of the medium vibrate, the value of this
ratio will depend also on the length of the wave, and will there
fore vary with the colour of the light *.
   The solution  resucgeigveesdtepdrinbcyiplPerso.feIstsiosr   Airy is more closely
connected with
                                                              now generally admitted
that part of the velocity of sound depends on a change of elas
ticity,  which the air undergoes   during its                 vbiybrcaotmiopnrse,ssiinonc.onseIf
quence   of the development of    latent heat

this heat required time for its development, the quantity de
veloped, and therefore the elastic force, must vary with the time
of vibration. Consequently the velocity of propagation should
also vary with the time, and be different for waves of different
lengths. Professor Airy imagines something similar to this
in the case of light ; and conceives that the elasticity of the

ether, in refracting media, may consequently undergo a change,
whose amount depends on the time of vibration.
   But    the explanation offered by Fresnel
            and most natural. The conclusion                  seems to be the
simplest
                                                              of analysis -- that
                                                           is constant in
gtheenevoeulsocmiteydioufmw, a--vei-sprdoepdaugcaetidonon  the particular  the same homo
                                                                           supposition that
Ifthe sphere of action of the molecules of the medium is inde
finitely small compared with the length of a wave.                         this re

striction be removed, we have no longer any ground for con
cluding that waves of different lengths will be propagated with
the same velocity. Fresnel states that he has demonstrated,
that when the mutual action of the ethereal molecules extends
to a sensible distance as compared with the length of a wave, the
waves of different lengths will be propagated with different
velocities ; the elasticity of the medium, and therefore also the

velocity, increasing with the length of the wave f. Here then

   · " An Attempt to explain theoretically the different Refrangibility of the
Rays of Light, according to the hypothesis of Undulations," Phil. Mag., New
Series, vol. viii.

   t This demonstration is more than once referred to by the author, as con

tained in a note appended to his memoir on double refraction. The note how

ever, probably by some oversight, has never been printed.
                         REPORT ON PHYSICAL OPTICS.                                           317

the constancy of the velocity of wave- propagation is regarded
but as the approximate result of an incomplete analysis. The

problem presented itself to M. Cauchy in a similar point of
view. In the profound researches of this mathematician relating
to light, the ether is considered as a system of particles solicited
by mutual attractions or repulsions ; and from the partial diffe
rential equations which represent their movement, he had de
duced the laws of propagation in crystallized as well as homo
geneous media. These equations however were but approximate,
and derived from others of greater generality by the omission of
the terms containing the higher powers of the displacements,
and of their derivatives with respect to the coordinates. Re
suming the problem of the propagation of a plane wave, with
the aid of the more general equations, he has finally demon
strated the existence of a relation between the velocity of pro
pagation and the length of the wave *.
The opacity of bodies is ascribed by Newton to the discon
tinuity of their parts, and to the multitude of internal reflexions
which the rays of light undergo within themj-. We have many
Ifreasons for believing this to be the case; but as yet we are far
from a complete account of the phenomenon.              the reflexions

and refractions, which thus arise at each new bounding surface,
be similar to those which take place at the outer surfaces of
bodies, the molecules of light will indeed be scattered in every
direction, but they should undergo no diminution of velocity.
How, then, is it that they do not emerge finally from the body as
         ;
               ?

                                 a

                                    it,
                                               is

                                             it
                                                              it

                                                                                                a

                                                                                               it
readily    a--s tnhoety  entered  and thus render       visible in all di
rections,                                               by secondary
                         by superficial reflexion, but
              To account for the extinction of light, in the theory
emission

of emission, we must suppose      united to the body which
enters and the simplest mode in which we can conceive this
union to be brought about, by the direct impact of the mole
cules of light on those of bodies, whereby they are brought within
the sphere of those interior attractive forces to which chemical
              "areArreefenrortedg.rosTshibsodaipepseaarnsdtolighahvte,"beseanysthhee,o"picnoionn
combinations
of Newton.

vertible into one another, and may not bodies receive much of
their activity from the particles of light which enter their com
position For all fixed bodies being heated emit light, so long
t
                 ?
                               2,

                                                 J
                                                                                           a
                                                                            of
                                            J
as they continue sufficiently hot, and light mutually stops in

bodies as often as its rays strike upon their parts ."

* Mkmoire sur la Dispersion de la Lumiere. --The attention of the Mathe
matical Section of the British Association was drawn to this theory by Professor
Powell, at the last meeting, chiefly in reference to limitation which seemed
to be required in the physical hypothesis.-- See Report Proceedings.
                                        Optics, Query 30.
Optics, book             part 3.
318 FOURTH REPORT 1834.

    When from the simple fact of absorption we proceed to con
 sider its law, as depending on the nature of the light, the diffi
 culties increase at every step. The intensity of the transmitted
 light considered as a function of its refrangibility appears to be
 subject to no law, or to a law so complicated as completely to
baffle all attempts to embrace it in an empirical rule. The max
ima and minima are often actually numberless ; and the vari
able does not reach them gradually, but by what seems to be an
 abrupt violation of the law of continuity. These apparently ca
pricious changes were observed long since by Dr. Young, in the
light transmitted through the common smalt-blue glass. Sir
David Brewster has recently directed his attention to the same
subject, and examined a great number of coloured bodies with
reference to their absorptive properties. He has found, in par
ticular, that a very remarkable definite action is exercised upon
the rays of the spectrum by the green liquids obtained by extract
ing the colouring-matter of the leaves of plants in alcohol; and
this action does not cease altogether even when the liquid has
become perfectly colourless *. But the absorbing properties of
nitrous acid gas, observed by the same author, are by far the
most remarkable ever noticed. When the light transmitted
through this gas is analysed by a prism, it is found that about
two thousand portions of the beam are stopped, and two
thousand dark spaces, or abrupt deficiencies of light, appear in
the spectrum. These increase in number and magnitude with
the temperature of the gas, until, by a sufficient elevation of
temperature, this rare body becomes perfectly opaque, and re

ffuses to transmit a single ray of the brightest sunshine .

Prof. Miller and Prof. Daniell have found some analogous pro
perties in other gases. In the spectrum produced by the light
transmitted through the vapours of bromine and iodine, more
than one hundred dark lines are visible, disposed at equal di

stances X-

   To account for the selection of certain classes of rays by
coloured media, in the theory of emission, it seems necessary
to suppose that an attractive force is exerted at a distance be
tween the molecules of the body and those of light, and that
the absolute value of this force varies with the colour. It does
not seem easy to reconcile these suppositions to the Newtonian
account of refraction ; and the difficulty is still further increased

when we proceed to apply the same considerations to the ab
sorption of definite rays ; and introduce the hypothesis of

f·  "  On  the  Colours of Natural  Bodies,"   "Et&ltcn..,  Trans., vol. xii.    xii.
    "  On  the  Lines of the Solar  Spectrum,               Ellin. Trans., vol.

X French translation of Herschel*s Essay on Light, Supplement, p. 1.5.').
                HEPORT ON PHYSICAL OPTICS.                      319

specific actions, varying in the most abrupt and irregular man
ner with the refrangibility of the ray *.

   The absorption of light, and the opacity of bodies, were long
since urged by Halley as difficulties in the wave-theory. The
ether is supposed to penetrate all bodies freely, and why not
also the undulatory motion in which light consists ? To this
difficulty we find a full and complete solution in the principle of
interference. When a wave enters a discontinuous substance,
it will be broken up, and its parts undergo continued subdivision
by internal reflexions ; so that when these parts reach the
second surface of the body, they are found in every possible
phase, and must destroy one another by interference. The
phenomenon, as has been observed by Sir John Herschel, is
analogous to the impeded propagation of sound in a mixture of
gases differing much in elasticity as compared with their density.

   The same writer has given an ingenious and natural account
of the absorption of specific rays on the principles of the wave-

ftheory, in a paper read before the Association last year . He

considers the molecules of the body and those of the ether as
forming, conjointly, compound vibrating systems, which are
more disposed to transmit vibrations of some determinate period
than others. Other vibrations, however, not in unison with

these systems, may be propagated through them. These forced
vibrations, as he calls them, will be obstructed in their progress,
and their amplitudes diminished by the mutual influence of the
motions of the parts of the systems ; and he shows that it is
possible to conceive systems, which will be wholly impervious
to a vibration of a particular period, while they freely transmit

others not differing from them materially in their frequency J.

But these important and interesting speculations, it must be
remembered, are advanced by their author solely with the view
of removing an imagined inconsistency between the phenomena
of absorption and the mechanical laws of vibratory movement.

*  "SeOen  Sir  David Brewster's Report on Optics.      viewed  in connexion with
t          the  Absorption of Light by coloured Media,

the Undulatory Theory," Phil. Mag., Third Series, vol. iii.
I An interesting interference experiment, similar in some respects to that
indicated by Sir John Herschel in this paper, has been recently made by Mr.
Kane. A compound tube, whose branches of 9 and 13J inches united at the
two extremities, was made to sound by the languette of an organ pipe. Each
of the tubes, separately, gave its own fundamental note, and all its harmonics ;

and when a free communication was opened between them, the system gave all
the notes of the two series, with the exception of those whose waves were in
complete discordance. Thus the fundamental note of the short tube was stopped
altogether, while its octave was given with remarkable clearness ; the two
waves being in complete discordance in the former case, and in complete ac
cordance in the latter.
320 FOURTH REPORT -- 1834.

We are still far from a precise theory of absorption. When
such a theory shall have been established, there seems reason to
believe that it will bring with it also an insight into the internal
constitution of bodies even yet more close than that afforded by
the affections of polarized light ; and that the laws of molecular
action may perhaps, at some future day, be studied in the phe
nomena of transmitted light.
The properties of solar phosphori, which attracted so much
of the attention of experimental philosophers of the last century,
seem at first view to favour the account of absorption suggested

by the theory of emission, and to arise from the disengagement
of the light which had become united to the body. Canton ob
served that light may remain in these bodies, as it were in a
latent state, for several months, until its re-emission is deter
mined by the action of heat. But it must be observed, in the
first place, that the feeble light emitted from the phosphori
bears a very small proportion to that which they are supposed
to receive by absorption. Dessaignes has remarked that most
of these substances emit the same kind of light, whatever be
the species of light to which they have been exposed*. The
same fact has been observed by M. Grotthousst and other sub
sequent inquirers ; and in some of the diamonds possessing

the property of phosphorescence, the most efficacious exciting
light is of a different colour from that excited.     These facts
seem to be inexplicable in the theory of emission.
                                                    In the wave-

theory, on the other hand, the phenomenon is easily compre
hended. As the vibrations of the air excite those of sounding
bodies, and communicate to them a motion which continues for
some time after the exciting cause has ceased to act ; so it must
also be with the undulations of the ether. When the body is
in unison with the incident light, their vibrations will continue
isochronous, and the undulations of the ether excited by the
body will be of  the same length as those by which it is itself
excited. In the  other case, the period of vibration, and conse
quently the length of the wave, will be altered, and the excited
and exciting lights will be of different colours. The fact ob
served by Canton is indeed not so easily explained. Young
supposed that the vibrations of the body may be abruptly sus
pended by cold, and may proceed anew when released from this

· M&m. Irut. torn. xi.   1815. --The same observer  discovered  the curious
t Schweigger's Journal,
fact, that the electric current restored the property of phosphorescence, in
many cases where it appeared to have been destroyed by the action of violent

heat.
              RKPORT ON PHYSICAL OPTrCS.                                                  321

restraint, like a string which has been stopped and detained in
any part of its vibration on either side of the centre.

   The fixed lines in the solar spectrum first noticed by Wollaston,
and afterwards more minutely traced by Fraunhofer, have lately
been examined with great care, and with his usual success, by
Sir David Brewster ; and he has observed a remarkable coinci
dence between these lines and the dark bands of the spectrum of
the nitrous acid gas *. Sir David Brewster has also studied, in
connexion with the same subject, the definite absorbing effects
of the earth's atmosphere. This has been effected by examining
the solar spectrum, when the sun was near the horizon ; and it
has been found that most of the dark bands thus developed be
longed to the fixed lines of Fraunhofer, which were thus, as it
were, widened, and brought out, by the absorptive action of the

atmosphere. A similar result has been arrived at in other cases,

and it has been found that the points of the spectrum on which
absorbing bodies exert the strongest specific actions are gene

rally coincident with the deficient rays of solar light f. This
singular connexion gives considerable weight to the speculations

of Sir David Brewster respecting the latter phenomena J.

   The observation of the fixed lines in the solar spectrum led
Fraunhofer to examine the optical characters of the lights ema
nating from other sources. He thus arrived at the interesting
discovery, that the system of bands in the different species of
light which he examined, varied with the source ; while it was
constantly the same in the number of the bands, and their
relation to the coloured spaces, in the light of the same

source, however modified. In the light of Sirius there are three
broad bands which have no resemblance to those of solar light.
The light of the electric spark, on the other hand, when ana
lysed by the prism is found to have several bright lines, of
which that in the green  tihserelimghatrkoafbalrytifbicriilalilafnlatm. esS, --imtilhaer
nomena were observed in                                                                    phe
                                                                                          flame
of an oil lamp, for example, exhibiting a well-defined bright
band between the red and yellow, and another not so distinct
in the green §. This however is not universally the case. In
the red flame of strontia, as was observed by Dr. Faraday and
Mr. Talbot, there are a number of red rays separated from each
other by dark bands; and in the flame of cyanogen, when
similarly analysed, the violet is found to be divided into three
distinct portions with broad dark intervals § .

*  "  On the  Lines of the Solar Spectmm," Edin. Trans., vol. xii.
   "  On the  Colours of Natural Bodies," Edin. Trans., vol. xii.
t
X Report on Optics.
|| Phil. May., Third Series, vol. iv. p. 114.  § Munich Memoirs.

   ] 834.                Y
322 FOURTH REPORT -- 1834.

It is easy to account for the general fact of the deficiency of
certain classes of rays in certain lights. When a body violently
heated begins to shine, the phenomenon is simply accounted
for, in the wave-theory, by an increase in the frequency of its
vibrations. In the same manner it seems natural to suppose,
generally, that the mechanical agencies at work during com
bustion accelerate or retard, in various ways, the rate of vibra
tion, and so alter the character of the emitted lights. The
light emitted in weak or incipient combustion is generally blue.
Sir John Herschel observed that when sulphur burns with a
feeble flame, its light contains all the rays of the spectrum,
and particularly the blue and violet; while, in vivid combustion,
these disappear entirely, and the light is a yellow of almost
                     *. The various shades of colour in the
perfect homogeneity
flame of a common    candle, --from the deep blue of the lower

part (which is found by prismatic analysis to consist of five
distinct portions,) to the yellowish white in the centre, and
thence to the dusky red at the apex of the flame, -- seem to be
referrible to the same principle. Fraunhofer and Sir David
Brewster have both remarked that the flame of oil, urged by
the blowpipe, consists chiefly or wholly of yellow rays. The
same fact was long since observed by Mr. Melville with respect
fto the flame of alcohol, into which nitre, muriate of soda and

other salts had been introduced ; and Sir David Brewster has
found that the quantity of yellow light given out by burning
bodies increases with their humidity, the flame of alcohol diluted

with water being nearly a homogeneous yellow %· It is more im

portant to remark however, in illustration of the undulatory
view of the phenomenon of emission, that the colour of flames is
often found to depend on the presence of something which is it
self unaltered in the process of combustion. Thus Mr. Talbot
has remarked that when a small quantity of muriate of lime was
placed on the wick of a spirit lamp, it gave out red and green

rays during an entire evening, though the salt was not sensibly
diminished §. The absence of definite rays in certain lights,
and the fixed lines of the solar spectrum, have been referred
by Sir John Herschel to the same principle by which he has
explained the absorption of specific rays
   In what has preceded we have assumed the truth of the re
§t
                         of

                                   J

                                                                            ||

                                                                              a ||.
                                                                                                   p. by
ceived theory with respect to the composition of solar light,
and the connexion between the colour of ray and its refrangi-
bility. This theory however has been recently opposed                                                     Sir

· " On Absorption of Light in coloured Media," Edin. Trans., vol. ix.
Edinb. Etiays.       On a Monochromatic Lamp. Ibid.
Edinb. Journ. Science, v. 77. Phil. Mag., Third Series, vol. iii. 407.
            REPORT OX PHYSICAL OPTICS.

David Brewster. According to this philosopher, white light
consists of but three simple colours, -- red, yellow, and blue ;
and the solar spectrum is composed of three overlapping spectra
of these colours, the intensity of each of which is greatest at
the point where that colour is strongest in the compound spec
trum. According to this view, then, all the colours in the solar
spectrum are compound, and consist of red, yellow, and blue
light, in different proportions. These compound colours can
not be analysed by the prism, in as much as the rays of which
they consist at any point of the spectrum have the same refran-
gibility; and it is only by the different action of absorbing
media on their constituent elements that their compound nature
can be detected. Each of them may be conceived to consist of
a certain quantity of white light, and of an excess of the light of

two of the simple colours ; and if this excess be absorbed, a
white light will be the result, which will be indecomposable by
the prism. This result of his hypothesis has been experimentally
confirmed by Sir David Brewster*.
   These views, if finally established, sever the connexion be
            colour   wofofarvmae,e--rraymbuuatnsdtonbietssosumrpeepfroaostnehgdeirbtioleitleydme, peelnantidd,o--fdotnwhonet
tween the                                                                                                                     by
Newton ;    and the                                                                                                           on
             of the
the length                                                                                                                    vi

bratory movement.

                            HI. Diffraction.
   It has been already stated that Newton considered the undu

lations of an ethereal medium to be a necessary part of his the
ory, and that that theory as maintained by its author differed
from the theory of Huygens and of Hooke, only by the addition
of a new hypothesis. The necessity of something extraneous to
the undulations of the ether seems to have been admitted by
Newton mainly to account for the right-lined propagation of
the rays of light ; and a careful consideration of his optical
writings leaves the impression, that had the wave-theory alone
appeared to explain this fact, Newton would not have hesitated
to embrace it. This explanation has been spoken of in another
place, and it has been shown to follow from that theory, that
the light which encounters an obstacle must diminish rapidly

in intensity within the edge of the geometric shadow. It now

remains to consider the other phenomena which arise under these
circumstances y and it will be found that the same theory affords
the most complete account, not only of their general characters,
but even of their numerical details.

   In order to understand the theory of shadows, it is necessary

            * " On a New Analysis of Solar Light," Edin. Train. 1831.
                                                     Y2
324 FOURTH REPORT -- 1834.

to investigate their laws in the simple case in which the mag
nitude of the luminous body is reduced to a point. The effects
thus presented were first observed by Grimaldi, and they have
been since studied, as a separate branch of optical science, under
the title of diffraction or inflexion. Grimaldi found that when
a small opaque body was placed in the cone of light, admitted
into a dark chamber through a very small aperture, its shadow
was much larger than its geometric projection, so that the light
suffered some deviation from its rectilinear course in passing by
the edge. Observing these shadows more attentively, he found
that they were bordered with three iris-coloured fringes, which
decreased in breadth and intensity in the order of their distances
from the edge of the shadow, preserving the same distance from
the edge throughout its entire extent, unless where the body
terminated in a sharp angle. Similar fringes were observed
under favourable circumstances within the shadows of narrow
 bodies*.

    The phenomena of diffraction were subsequently examined
by Hooke and by Newton. The first observations of Newton
were but repetitions of those of Grimaldi ; and it is remarkable
that he altogether overlooked the important phenomenon of the
interior fringes noticed by the Italian philosopher. But to
Newton we owe the analysis of the phenomena, so far as they
 depended on the nature of the light. When the different species
 of simple light into which the sun's rays were divided by a prism
 were cast in succession on the diffracting body, Newton observed
 that the fringes formed were broadest in red light, narrowest in
 the violet, and of intermediate magnitude in the light of mean
 refrangibility, so that the iris-coloured fringes which are formed
 in white light are but the fringes of different colours superposed.
 But the observations of Newton most closely connected with his
 physical theory are those in which the light is made to pass be
 tween two near knife-edges, whether parallel or inclined. From
 these observations Newton concluded that the light of the first
 fringe passed by the edge, at a distance greater than the 800th
 of an inch, that of the second and third fringes passing at still
 greater distances. These distances, however, were not the same
 wherever the fringes were formed j and it appeared to follow
 from the experiment, that the light of the same fringe was not
the same light at all distances, but that each fringe was, as it were,
a caustic formed by the intersection of the rays passing at dif
ferent distances from the edge ; the portion of the fringe near
the knives being formed of light which passed nearest to the
edge and was most bentf.

            t* Physico-Mathesis de Lumine, Bologna, 1665.
                        Optics, Book iii.
                            REPORT ON PHYSICAL OPTICS.                                       325

To account for these phenomena Newton supposed the rays
of light to be inflected in passing by the edges of bodies, by the
operation of the attractive and repulsive forces which the mole
cules of bodies were conceived to exert on those of light at sen
sible distances. Thus, the rays passing by the edges of a nar

row opaque body are supposed to be turned aside by its repul
sion ; and as this force decreases rapidly as the distance increases,
the rays which pass at a distance from the body will be less de
flected than those which pass close to it. The caustic formed
by the intersection of these deflected rays will be concave in
                                                                           will form the
a

          ;
                                                        ;

                                                                  is

                                                    f, it,

                                                                    it

                                                                                                             a
                                                                                                                         ;a
wards ; and as none of the rays pass within
boundary of the visible shadow. To explain the alternations of
darkness and light beyond this, Newton appears to have sup
posed that the attractive and repulsive forces succeed one another
for some alternations and that the molecules composing each
         "thweiitrhpaamssaogtieonbyliktehethabtoodfy,anaereelb,"enat ntdo  and fro by these
ray, in                                                                    are finally thrown
forces
off at one or other of the points of contrary flexure. The sepa
ration of white light into its elements explained, by supposing
that  the rays which differ in refrangibility differ also in
       the body acting alike upon the less refrangible                     inflexibi
lity                                                                       rays at

greater distance, and upon the more refrangible at a less di
stance*. In one of his letters to Oldenburgh Newton advances
  more refined theory of diffraction. The bending of the ray
near the edge of the obstacle he conceived to arise from varia
tion in the density of the ether in the neighbourhood of the body
and, following the analogy of thin plates, he endeavoured to ac
count for the coloured fringes by the vibrations of the ether
which are propagated faster than the rays themselves, and over
take them at the middle of the curved portion of the trajectory

they describe.

   It needless to comment upon the vagueness of these expla

nations. Newton himself was dissatisfied with them, and the
subject fell from his hands unfinished. Still, however, the mere
      is
                         a
guesses of such mind as that of Newton must possess high
interest, and we are not to wonder that among his followers more                             a

weight should be attached to these explanations than he himself                                    if >

ever gave them. It seems necessary therefore to advert to some

of the circumstances of these phenomena, which are not only
unexplained by this theory, but which seem moreover irrecon
Ifcileably at variance with it.

        the phenomena of inflexion be the effects of attractive and
repulsive forces emanating from the interposed body, and
these forces are the same, or even analogous to those to which

      ODpetcicesm, bBeoro2k1,iii1. 6Q75u.e--rieBsirch's
t·
                                                               1,
                                                          2,
                                                               3,

                                                             of
                                                             4.    Royal Society, vol. iii.
                                                         History
32G  FOURTH REPORT -- 1834.

the reflexion and refraction of light are ascribed in the theory of
emission, it will follow that they must exist in different bodies
in very different degrees ; so that the amount of bending of the
rays, and therefore the position of the diffracted fringes, should
vary with the mass, the nature and the form of the inflecting

body. Now it is clearly ascertained, on the contrary, that all

bodies, Whatever be their nature or the form of their edge, pro
duce under the same circumstances fringes identically the same;
and in fact the partial interception of light, caused by the inter
position of an obstacle of any kind, seems to be the only condi
tion on which the character of the phenomenon depends.
Gravesende seems to have first observed that the nature or den
sity of the body had no effect upon the magnitude of the diffracted
fringes ; and the fact has since been confirmed in the fullest
manner by almost every inquirer in this branch of experimental
science. One of the ablest supporters of the theory of emission
has admitted that the inflecting forces, if such exist, must be inde
pendent of the chemical nature of the inflecting body, and altoge
ther different in their nature from those to which, in the same
theory, the phenomena of reflexion and refraction are ascribed*.
To ascertain whether the form of the edge had any effect upon
the fringes, Fresnel took two plates of steel, the edge of each
of which was rounded in one half of its length and sharp in the
remaining half, and placed the rounded portion of one edge op

posite the angular part of the other, and vice versa. If, then, the

position of the fringes depended on the form of the surface, the
effect would thus be doubled, and the fringes appear broken in
the middle. They were found, on the contrary, to be perfectly
straight throughout their entire lengthf.

    Again, the inflecting forces (though they must be supposed
to vary in intensity, with the form and mass of the body, and
with the distance of the luminous molecule from the edge) can
not be conceived to depend in any way upon the distance pre
viously traversed by the molecule before it arrives in the neigh
bourhood of that edge ; so that the magnitude and position of

   * Biot, Prkci* Uementaire, vol. ii. p. 473, 3"e Edit.
   T Mimotre sur la Diffraction, p. 370. The Bulletin Vnivertrl for February
1828 contains some animadversions on this part of Fresnel's optical labours, in
a paper signed by the secretary of the Academy of Sciences of St. Petersburgh,
and purporting to be an official reply to some remarks in a former number of
the Bulletin on the programme of the prize questions proposed by the Academy.
The writers have confounded two experiments Of Fresnel which were instituted
with different views, and differently reasoned upon. Fresnel's object in this
experiment was simply to show that the form of the edge produced no effect
upon the fringes, as it ought to do if diffraction arose from attractive or repul
sive forces extending tosensible distances from bodies. Most of the objections
urged in the same paper against the wave-theory arise, in like manner, in mis

conception.
      REPORT ON PHYSICAL OPTICS.                                                                       327

the fringes, in this hypothesis, cannot vary in any way with
the distance of the inflecting edge from the luminous point.
But this conclusion is the reverse of fact : the fringes dilate in
breadth, and their mutual inclination is increased, as the screen
approaches the luminous origin. There seems to be but one
way of avoiding the inference drawn from this fact against the

theory of emission. It may be supposed that the bands have
their origin at some sensible distance from the edge of the body,

and thus that the obliquity of the incident ray varies as the edge
approaches the luminous point. Such was the conjecture of
Dutour, who noticed the fact. Fresnel has calculated the
breadth of the fringes according to this supposition, and found
that the computed and experimental results do not agree*. But,
in point of fact, the bands may be supposed without sensible
error to have their origin at the edge itself. Fresnel found by
direct measurement that the distance of the third band from the
edge of the shadow at its origin was less than the 100th part of
a millimetre.

   The objections just considered seem to apply equally to the
hypothesis of Mairan and Dutour, in which the phenomena of
diffraction are referred to the reflexions and refractions of an

atmosphere supposed to encompass all bodies. For if such an

atmosphere be retained around the body by its attraction, (and
this seems to be the only mode of accounting for its presence,)
its density and its form must vary with those of the body itself,
and consequently its effects upon the rays of light must vary

also. But the experiments of M. Haldat seem to leave no

tenable ground for these hypotheses. Every agent has been tried
which could be conceived capable of modifying the attractive
force of the body, or the density of the imagined atmosphere,
and without effect. The metallic wires and plates which pro
duced the fringes were heated to redness, and cooled down be
low the freezing-point ; they were traversed by voltaic currents,
and the charges of powerful batteries transmitted through them ;
but in whatever manner the condition of the diffracting body

was varied, no change whatever was perceived either in the
intensity or dimensions of the diffracted fringesf.

   Although the phenomena of diffraction were studied by many

diligent observers J after the publication of the Optics, no ma

*  "  Memoire sur laDiffraction de la Lumiere,"   Mini, de l'Instilut,tom. v. p. 353.
t  "  Sur les Causes de la Diffraction," Annates  de Chimie, turn. xli. Similar ex

periments had been made some time before by Mayer, and with the same result.
Gottingen Afemoirs, vol. iv.
                              Par.
  t Maraldi {Mem. Acad.        Mr.  1B7r2o3u.)g, haMmaira(nPhi(lI.bidT.ra1n7s3.8, .),179D6u--tou7r.),  (Me-
                                                                                                         and
moires prhentes, torn, v.),
Mr. Jordan (Ntw Observations concerning the IiiJ/eKion of Light. London 1 7i>0).
328 FOURTH REPORT -- 1834.

terial accession was made to the knowledge of their laws until
the principles of the wave-theory were applied to their expla
nation by Young. The exterior fringes, formed without the
shadows of bodies, were ascribed by Young to the interference
of two portions of light, one of which passed by the body and
was more or less inflected, while the other was obliquely re
flected from its edge, the latter losing half an undulation at the
instant of reflexion*. The fringes formed by narrow apertures
were, in like manner, supposed to arise from the interference
of the two pencils reflected from the opposite edges ; while the
interior fringes, within the shadows of narrow bodies, were ac
counted for by the interference of the pencils which passed on
either side of the body at an insensible distance, and were in
flected into the shadow. The observed facts closely correspond
with the calculated results of this theory ; and in the case last
mentioned Young proved that the phenomena admitted of no
other explanation. Placing a small opaque screen on either
side of the diffracting body, so as to intercept the portion of
light which passed by one of its edges, the bands immediately
disappeared, although the light passing by the other edge was
unmodified. The same effect was produced, and by the same
means, upon the crested fringes of Grimaldi, formed within the
shadows of bodies having a rectangular terminationf. Thus the
phenomena of the fringes, or the alternations of light and dark
ness, were shown to be cases of the more general principle of
interference ; and the connexion is now admitted by some of
the warmest advocates of the Newtonian theory^. The bending
of the light into the shadow, or the fact of inflexion itself, was
at first ascribed by Young to the refraction of an ethereal at
mosphere encompassing bodies and decreasing in density with
the distance. He afterwards, however, adopted the simpler
doctrine of Huygens and Grimaldi, and referred the pheno
menon to the fundamental property of waves.

   But perhaps the most important of the labours of Young on
i his subject is that in which he descends into numerical details,
and, taking the observations of Newton, as well as his own,
calculates the differences of the lengths of the paths traversed by
the two pencils, when they destroy or reinforce one another by
interference. These intervals he found to constitute an arith
metical progression for the successive bands ; the first term of
which was the same in the same species of light, whatever be

·  "  On the Theory   of Light and Colours," Phil. Trans. 1802.      Phil.
   "  Experiments    and Calculations relative to Physical Optics,"
t
Tram. 1804.
I Biot, Pricis elementaire, vol.
                                  p. 472 S1"6 Edit.
                                  ii.
                                                    ,
      REPORT ON PHYSICAL OPTICS.                                   ."29

the distance at which the fringes are received, or the other con
ditions of the experiment. And, finally, comparing these con
stants with the similar intervals of the two pencils reflected hy
the surfaces of a thin plate, as deduced from the experiments
of Newton, he found that their difference was within the limits

of error to which such observations are liable, and that we are

warranted in concluding that  the two classes   of   phenomena     are
to be referred to one simple    principle*.         is true, that   in
                                               It
these calculations, Young starts from an erroneous principle re
specting the lights which form the diffracted fringes by their
interference, and he has remarked some discordances in his re

sults which have, no doubt, their origin in that circumstance ;
but the results of the exact theory are not greatly different from
that which he adopted, and the more complete analysis of Fresnel
has only tended to confirm the conclusion obtained by Young.

   The important experiment of Young, on the disappearance
of the fringes in the shadow of a narrow opaque body, when
the light passing by one of its edges was intercepted, was that
which first led him to the principle of interference. An in

structive variation in this experiment was made by M. Arago.

The interior fringes were found to disappear likewise when the
light passing by one of the edges was transmitted through a
plate of some transparent substance ; and by varying the

thickness of the interposed plate, M. Arago discovered that the

disappearance of the fringes in this case arose from their dis
placement, the bands being always transferred to the side on
which the plate was interposed. From this it followed, that the

light was retarded in the denser medium f. M. Arago afterwards
produced the same modification in the interference bands formed
by two mirrors ; and the experiment, in this form, is a com
plete crucial instance, as applied to the two theories of light.
The amount of the displacement determines the velocity of
light in the medium, and therefore the refractive index, with an

accuracy unattainable by any other method. Professor Powell
has suggested a very elegant modification of this experiment,
which at once establishes the truth of the law, that the velocity

of light is inversely as the refractive index of the medium tra

versed J.

   The experimental laws of the diffracted fringes were next

examined by MM. Biot and Pouillet. In the case of a narrow

rectilinear aperture, (which was that chiefly studied,) they found

*  "  Experiments and Calculations relative to Physical Optics," Phil. Traits.
t  "  Sur un Phenomene remarquable qui subserve dans la Diffraction de la

Lumieip," Annates de C/timie, tom. i.
I Phil. Mag., Second Series, vol. xi. p. 6.
330 FOURTH REPORT 1834.

that the deviations produced in the different species of simple
light, or the distances of the bands from the axis of the pencil,
were in all cases proportional to the lengths of the fits ; the mag
nitude of the aperture remaining the same. The same analogy
was preserved in different media, the deviations varying in the
inverse ratio of the refractive indices of the media, or in the
direct ratio of the fits*. M. Pouillet adds, that they were un
able to explain theselaws, having adopted the theory of emissiont.
They are all simple consequences of the wave-theory. The in
terval of the fits is exactly half the length of a wave, and the
true connexion between the place of the fringes and the latter

quantity had been already pointed out by Young.
Mayer afterwards studied the phenomena of diffraction, but
without adding any new facts to those already known. As to
the theory, he adopted that of Newton, with some modifications.
With Newton, he ascribed the inflexion of light into the shadow
to the operation of an attractive force ; but, unwilling to admit
the existence of a repulsive force, he attempted to account for
deflexion by the impact of the                           from the
against those which passed by   molecules     reflected            edge

   Fresnel                      itj.                                          of
diffraction,  at first adopted and developed
              and found that the general laws  oYfotuhneg'fsringtehse,o--ry  the

dependence of their magnitude upon the length   of a     wsacvreee, na, n--d
upon the distances of the luminous origin and  of the
were thus fully explained. It was shown, that as the position
of the screen is varied, the successive points at which the same

fringe is formed are not in a right line, but constitute an hyper
bola ; and that when the distance of the luminous origin is les

sened, the inclination of these hyperbolic branches considered
as coincident with their asymptots, augments, and the fringes
dilate in                 Fresnel, however,
with this  breadth  §.If  the exterior bands    was soon dissatisfied
           theory.                            had their origin in the
interference of the direct and reflected light, their intensity
should depend on the curvature of the edge; it is found, on
the contrary, that the fringes formed by the back and by the
edge of a razor are precisely alike in every respect. As to the
other cases of diffraction, there were many phenomena, and
especially those exhibited in Newton's experiment with the two
knife-edges, which proved that the rays grazing the edges of the
body were not the only rays concerned in the production of

· Biot, Traile de Physique, torn, iv., Supplement & l'Optique.  .

t Element de Physique, torn. ii. p. 437.
J Comm. Soc. Gotlingensis Receniiores, vol. iv. p. 49.

§ Annates tic Chimie, torn. i. p. 239.
          REPORT ON PHYSICAL OPTICS.                                                331

the fringes, but that the light which passed by those edges at
sensible distances was also deviated, and concurred in their for

mation*.

Fresnel was thus led to seek a broader foundation for his the
ory, and the result of his investigations is given in the able
memoir which was crowned by the French Academy in 1819.

In this memoir the laws of diffraction are derived from the two
pserilnvecsiplreesfertroedw, h--ichthetheprilanwcisploef
                                                          reflexion and refraction  are them
                                                          of interference and the   principle
of Huygens. To apply these principles to the present case,
Fresnel supposes the surface of the wave when it reaches the
obstacle to be subdivided into an indefinite number of equal
portions, and he applies the mathematical laws of interference,
unfolded in this memoir, to determine the resultant of all the

elementary waves sent by them at the same instant to any point.
This resultant is expressed by means of two integrals, which are
to be taken within limits determined by the particular nature of
the problem. Its square is the measure of the intensity of the
light j and it is found that its value has several maxima and
minima which correspond to the intensities of the light in the
bright and dark bands.
The problem of diffraction was thus completely solved, and
it only remained to apply the solution to the principal cases, and
to compare the results with those of observation. The cases of
diffraction selected by Fresnel are : 1st, The phenomena pro
duced by a single straight edge ; 2nd, By an aperture terminated
by parallel straight edges ; and 3rd, By a narrow opaque body
of the same form. The agreement of observation and theory is
so complete, that the computed places of the several bands sel
dom differ from those observed by more than the 100th part of
a millimetre, the case of diffraction by narrow apertures alone
excepted. The small differences between observation and theory,
in this case, Fresnel ascribes to a false judgment of the eye as
to the position of the centre of the dark bands, occasioned by
the different intensities of the bright bands on either side ; the
minimum always appearing nearer to the brighter light than it
really is. The computed places of the bands, in the first case
of diffraction, were found to differ from those deduced from the

hypothesis of Young by a small numerical quantity, the distance
of the first dark band being less in the former theory, in the
ratio of *936 to unity ; but small as the difference is, the mea
sures of Fresnel completely decide the questionf.

· Memoire sur la Diffraction de la Lumiire, p. 368.       \ Ibid., p. 420.
332 FOURTH REPORT -- 1834,

   M. Poisson applied Fresnel's integral to the case of diffraction

by an opaque circular disc, and arrived at the singular result,
that the intensity of the light in the centre of the shadow is

precisely the same as if the disc were removed. This remark

able anticipation of theory has been verified by the observation
of M. Arago*. Fresnel has himself solved the problem in the
analogous case of a circular aperture, and arrived at the result,
that the intensity of the light of any simple colour, at the cen
tral spot, will be the same as that reflected by a plate of air,
whose thickness bears a certain simple relation to the radius of
the aperture, and its distances from the luminous origin and from
the eye. With homogeneous light, therefore, the illumination
of the central spot vanishes periodically, as the distance of the
eye from the aperture is varied; and in white light it assumes in
succession the most vivid and beautiful hues, coinciding with
those of the reflected rings of thin plates. These interesting
phenomena were observed about the same time by Sir John
Herschel, and their laws deduced, independently, from observa-
tionf.

   With the exception of the observations now referred to, no

attempt has been made to verify the theory, by comparing the
intensity of the light in the fringes with that deduced from the
formulae ; and indeed it is obvious that a comparison of this
nature is ill calculated to afford any conclusive evidence on the
question. Fresnel thought, however, that the expression for the
intensity might be indirectly verified, by superposing two sets
of fringes (such as the interior and exterior fringes of a narrow
opaque body,) by means of double refraction, and then examin
ing the position of the new maxima and minima. This ingeni
ous suggestion does not appear to have been acted on.

   The intensity of the light in the partial waves sent from each
point of the primary wave, considered as a distinct centre of
disturbance, will necessarily be different in different directions,
depending on the angle which these directions form with the
front of the original wave ; and to solve the problem of diffrac
tion in its most general form, it would be necessary to know the
law of this variation. Fresnel has shown, however, that the
rays whose directions are inclined at sensible angles to the nor
mal to the front of the primary wave, destroy one another by
interference ; so that the actual effect is produced by rays inde
finitely near that normal, and which therefore may be regarded
as of equal intensity. The truth of this assumption, however, is

· Memoire sur la Diffraction, \i. 460.  f Essay on Light, Art. 729.
                 REPORT ON PHYSICAL OPTICS.                                         333

disputed by M. Poisson. From his theory of the propagation

of motion in fluid media, this mathematician inferred that the
absolute velocities of the molecules are insensible in directions
making finite angles with the direction of the original vibra
tions. He concludes, therefore, that these velocities, or the
intensity of the light in the partial waves, cannot be regarded
as sensibly equal in directions inclined to it at very small
angles*. Fresnel's reply to this part of M. Poisson's theory
has been already referred to. The principle of Huygens itself,
which forms the basis of Fresnel's theory, though not denied
by M. Poisson, is yet objected to, as introducing a needless
complication into the question ; and indeed it does not seem
easy to understand, at first view, why each point of the pri
mary wave in this mode of composition should not give rise to

a retrograde as well as to a direct wave f.
    An objection of a different nature has been raised against

Fresnel's theory, derived from its supposed discordance with

phenomena. It is a consequence of that theory, when applied

to the case of diffraction by a narrow aperture bounded by pa
rallel straight edges, that if a point be taken in the axis of the
pencil, whose distances measured from the centre and edge of
the aperture differ by half a wave, that point will be the limit
within which all the interior fringes are confined ; and beyond
that point the centre of the image will be always white. This
result is confirmed by the previous experiments of M. Biot, by
 the observations of Fresnel himself, and by those of Professors
Airy and Powell, by whom they have been since repeated.
M. Biot found that the central band was dark and white alter
nately, to a certain distance from the aperture ; after which it
was always white. He remarks that when this limit is attained,
we may diminish the breadth of the aperture, and even bring its
 sides into actual contact, without any change in the central
 band except its enlargement and consequent diminution of in

 tensity %.
    Newton's celebrated experiment with the two knife-edges has

* It may be necessary to state that it was part of M. Poisson's theory, that
the vibrations are normal to the wave.
t See Annaies de Chimie, tom. xxii. p. 270, tom, xxiii. ; and Airy's Math.
Tracts, p. 267.
                                             7"6P0.rontThileiadedsisctraipnttiioan  of the pheno
   X Traite de Physique,  tom. iv. pp. 749,                                         acierum sem
menon given by Mayer      is very similar :
per magis magisque imminuitur, fasciae adeo evanescunt, ita ut denique non
nisi fascia media remaneat ; sed ad dextram atque sinistram adeo in latitudinem
extensa, ut non nisi lumen languidum, a medio spectri initialis utrinque instar
cauda.- comets sese dilatans, representet." Gottingen Memoirs, vol. iv. p. 61.
334 FOURTH REPORT -- 1834.

been adduced in opposition to these results. Newton found
that when the distance of these edges was the 400th part of an
inch, the light which passed between the knives parted in the
middle, and left a dark space in the centre*. The experiment
has been repeated by Mr. Barton, and with a similar resultf.
These experiments, however, were made with curved edges ; and
as Professor Powell has observed, we have no ground for sup
posing that the phenomenon may not be modified by this change
in the conditions under which it is presented. The theory of
Fresnel has not been applied to the more complex problem of
an aperture with curvilinear edges, and the analytical difficul
ties of the problem seem to be insuperable. There seems to be
some uncertainty, however, with respect to the phenomenon
itself. Professor Powell repeated the experiment with edges of
various curvatures, and always found that the centre was a point
of relative brightness, as compared with other points in the line

perpendicular to the length of the aperture J. As to Newton's

experiment, it seems certain, as the same writer has observed,
that we are not acquainted with all its conditions ; and it is
apparent from many passages that the illustrious observer him
self was far from being assured with respect to the real nature
and circumstances of these phenomena§.

   But there is another essential circumstance to be taken into
account, in comparing the experiments of Newton with the re
sults of Fresnel's theory. In that theory the origin of light is
supposed to be a point, and this condition is practically fulfilled
by making the light to diverge from the focus of a lens of high
power ; the origin of the light in that case being (by the princi
ples of the wave-theory) the minute image of the sun in the
focus. In Newton's experiments, however, the sun's light was
made to pass through a hole of sensible magnitude ; and in the
remarkable experiment now referred to, that hole was a quarter
of an inch in diameter. The problem of diffraction in this case

is one of much greater complexity. It is necessary to deter

mine the joint effect produced at any point of the diffracting
aperture by the several indefinitely small portions of a wave

· Optics, Book iii., Obs. vi. and vii.
Jallt"PhTihl.e
              Mag., vol. ii. p. 268.  book  I  have                          Ibid., p. 429, &c.
§              subject of the third            when  also left imperfect, not having tried
   the experiments which I intended
                                                      I was about these matters, nor re
peated some of those I did try until I had satisfied myself about all their circum
stances. To communicate what I have tried, and leave the rest to others for

further inquiry, is all my design in publishing these papers." Optica, Adver
tisement 1. See also latter part of Obs. 11. Book iii.
REPORT ON PHYSICAL OPTICS.                                                                                 335

transmitted through the external hole ; and, considering each of
these as a new centre of disturbance, to find their total resultant
at any point of the screen on which the fringes are received.
The method of solution has been pointed out by Professor Airy ;
and he has shown that when the external hole is a rectangular
parallelogram, and the diffracting aperture of the same form and
similarly placed, the law of illumination at any point of a screen
will be similar to that produced by a rhomboidal aperture, in
Fresnel's method of observation ; the dimensions and distances

in the two cases being connected by certain relations*. From
these investigations Professor Airy concludes that the size of the
external hole could not account for the dark central shadow
mentioned by Newton in the sixth observation. He has con
firmed this conclusion by experiment ; and employing holes of
various magnitudes, he found the central band in all cases bright.
The effect recorded by Newton is ascribed by Professor Airy to
the influence of contrast on the retina.

  A remarkable class of phenomena arise when a lens is placed
close to an aperture of any form, and the light received on a
screen at its focus, or on an eyeglass at its own focal distance
from it. In fact, the phenomena of diffraction are in this manner
produced with holes of considerable dimensions, and were ob
served by Sir W. Herschel, with the undiminished apertures of
his great telescopes ; the stars being seen encompassed by seve
ral dark and bright rings, succeeding one another at equal in
tervals, when a high magnifying power was employed. But the
phenomena become more distinct when the aperture is limited
by a diaphragm of moderate size, the diameters of the rings
varying inversely as those of the apertures. The effects pro
duced by diaphragms of different sizes and forms have been

examined in much detail by Sir John Herschel and M. Aragof.
The phenomena produced by minute apertures, when combined
with a lens in the manner now spoken of, have been studied with
much zeal and success by Fraunhofer. The most remarkable of
these phenomena are those produced by a fine grating, such as
may be formed by stretching a fine wire between two parallel
screws of equal thread. When such a grating is placed before
the object-glass of a telescope, and a narrow slit whose length
t
                  of

                                    is

                                                                                                        a

                                                                                        it,
is parallel to the wires of the grating, viewed through                                                    the

direct image of the slit  bordered on either side by succes

   · " On the Calculation of Newton's Experiments on Diffraction," Cambridge
Trans., vol. v. part 2.

       Professor Amici has also noticed some phenomena of the same class. See
Edin. Journal Science, vol. iv. p. 306.
330 FOURTH REPORT -- 1834.

eion of richly coloured diffracted images, which increase in
breadth and diminish in brightness, as they recede from the
centre. The first pair of spectra are separated from the central
image by a space absolutely black, and a similar interval occurs
between the first and second pair. Fraunhofer observed, under
favourable circumstances, 13 such spectra on either side of the
central image. He has measured with great accuracy the an
gular deviations of the rays of each colour from the axis ; and
he has found that the experimental laws thus deduced agree in
the most complete manner with the results of the principle of
interference*. The results are the same, both by theory and
experiment, in   the case of    oref flgerxaitoinngfsromareruilnetderseusrtfiancgesinf.
   The optical                                                                           many
                phenomena
points of view. The appearance of lateral spectra, produced by
simply intercepting a part of the light, proves that the light
actually diverges in all directions from the front of the grand
wave where it meets the lens, and that it is to the interference
of this light with that intercepted by the grating that we are
to ascribe its want of sensible effect under ordinary circum
stances \. Another very remarkable circumstanceof these pheno
mena is the purity of the light of each simple colour, which is
such that the fixed lines may be discerned in the spectra. The
distances of these lines, in the diffracted spectrum, are always
proportional, whatever be the diffracting substance ; while the
ratio of their intervals, or the breadths of the coloured spaces,
in the spectra formed by refraction, vary with the nature of the

* The angular deviation, 6n of any ray from the axis is expressed by the

formula                                                                                       <

                                sin in = 5i»
                                               I
in which n denotes the order of the spectrum, x the length of an undulation,
and t the interval of the axes of the wires. The value of t is obtained with

great precision, so that the measurement of the angular deviations of the rays
of each simple colour affords the most exact data for the determination of the

length of their waves. Fraunhofer has in this manner computed the lengths of
the waves, corresponding to the seven principal fixed lines in the spectrum ;

and    the resulting values are perhaps the most exact optical constants we              possess.
       a remarkable consequence of the expression above given, that when                  t is less
It is
than >, the angle in will be imaginary. In this case, then, there can be no coloured
spectra ; and it follows that scratches or inequalities on any polished surface,
whose interval is less than the length of a wave, do not disturb the regularity
of reflexion and refraction.
+ Fraunhofer's researches on diffraction are published in the Memoirs of the
                                       viii. A very

                                       Optics ; and
J.Bavarian Academy of Sciences, vol.
                                 art.
in the Edinburgh Encyclopedia,
                                                     full analysis of them               "is  given
                                                     in Sir Herschel's                        Essay
on Light," Encyc. Metrop.
* Airy's Math. Tracts, p. 331.
                         REPORT ON PHYSICAL OPTICS.                                      $57

prism. This fact appears to be decisive against the Newtonian
theory of inflexion, in which inflexion and refraction are referred
to the same cause.

theThceaseasnallaystticaallluidnevdestitgoa, t--ionthosoef,  the problem  of diffraction  in
                                                              namely, in  which a lens    is

combined with the aperture, and the intensity of the light is
                         point of a parallel
--souisghfat ratmaonrye  manageable than           plane passing     through the    focus,
                                                   in most other     cases. The     gene
ral expression of the displacement is at once integrated with
respect to one of the variables, and the complete integral can,
in many cases, be exactly found. Professor Airy has given the
solution of this problem in his valuable tract on the Undulatory
Theory*, and in applying it to the phenomenon last mentioned
has deduced all the appearances observed by Fraunhofer. The
remarkable appearance of the six-rayed star, observed by Sir
John Herschel, when a triangular diaphragm was placed before
the object-glass of a telescope, has been likewise deduced as
another case of the same problem.
The same effects, Fraunhofer observed, were produced by re
flexion from grooved surfaces ; and their theory is to be referred
to the same principles, the light reflected from the surfaces
between the grooves interfering in a manner precisely analogous
to that admitted through the apertures of the gratings. The
colours exhibited by such surfaces under ordinary circumstances
were observed by Boyle and Grimaldi ; Young snowed that they
were consequences of the principle of interference, and deter
mined the law of their recurrence depending on the incidencef ;
and Sir David Brewster seems to have been the first to observe

that the spectra formed in these cases of multiplied diffraction
approached the solar spectrum in purity, far more nearly than
the ordinary diffracted bands, or the coloured rings of Newton.
These phenomena indicate the superficial structure more uner

ringly, perhaps, than the most powerful microscopes. Among
the most important and beautiful instances of this application
mofoothpetirc-aolf-psceieanrlceJ,        be ranked the analysis of the colours of
                                   may   the investigation of the structure of the
                                    and

crystalline lenses of the eyes of fishes and other animals, by
Sir David Brewster§. The same author has also described a new
series of periodical colours, which are exhibited by some of the

plates of grooved steel constructed by Mr. Barton, and which suc

·      M" aOtnh.thTeraTchtes,orpy.  321, &c.  and  Colours,"  Phil.  Trans.  1801.
                                    of Light
t
J Phil. Trans. 1814.                                                      § Ibid. 1833.
1834.                                         z
33$ FOURTH REPORT -- 1834.
ceed one another in a plane at right angles to that in which the
usual spectra are developed*. The theory of this phenomenon
remains yet to be developed. In the solution of the analogous
problem, given by Professor Airy, a periodical variation in the
intensity of the light in the direction of the apertures of the
grating is indeed pointed out ; but that variation, it is easily
seen, will not account for the facts last mentioned.

            IV. Colours of thin Plates.

The earliest observations on record, in which the colours of

thin plates were made the subject of experimental research, are
those of Boylef. This diligent observer remarked the fact, that
most transparent substances exhibit colour by reflected light
when sufficiently reduced in thickness; and that these tints
varied in the same substance, and therefore did not depend
essentially upon its chemical nature. The observations of Boyle
were made on the bubbles of various liquids, and he even suc
ceeded in blowing glass sufficiently thin to exhibit similar phe

nomena.

   The vivid and varying colours of the soap bubble also engaged

the attention of Hooke J ; but the most important of the obser
vations of this philosopher, connected with the subject of thin
plates, are those recorded in his Micrographia, which was pub
lished in the year 1665. In this work he shows, that the colours
of laminae of mica are dependent on their thickness, and appear
only when that thickness is comprised within certain limits ;
that when the tint exhibited by a given plate is uniform over its
entire surface, the plate is also uniformly thick ; and that the
colour presented by two plates superposed is different from those
of either separately. Hooke has also the merit of producing the
phenomena of thin plates in the instructive form in which their

laws have since been studied, namely, by placing two object-
glasses in contact; and he found that any transparent fluid in
            baeirtw; --eenthethceololeunrs, ehsowfuevrneris, hbeedinag  succession of colours
troduced                                                                more vivid, the more
as well as
the refractive power of the plate differed from that of the glasses
within which it was inclosed.

The attention of Newton was soon after directed to the same

subject ; and his investigations, which ended in the complete

            · Phil. Trans. 1829.
            + Experiments and Observations upon Colours, 1663.
            X Birch's History of the Royal Society, vol. iii. p. 29.
                    REPORT ON PHYSICAL OPTICS.                                                  389

discovery of the laws of the phenomena, will ever be considered
as a model of experimental inquiry. A convex lens of glass
being laid upon a plane surface of the same material, after the
manner of Hooke, the bands of the same colour are arranged
round the point of nearest approach in concentric circles ; and
the diameters of these circles will be obviously as the square
roots of the thicknesses of the plate of air at the points at which

they are exhibited. In order to investigate the relation between
the colour and the thickness, then, it was only necessary to
measure the diameters of these rings in the different species of
simple light ; and taking similar measurements when the other
circumstances of the phenomena were varied, Newton deduced
their laws, as they depended on the substance of the reflecting
plate, and on the obliquity of the incident pencil. Newton ob
served, moreover, that there was a second system of rings formed
     transmission.    The transmitted rings were found
by   same laws,--   with this remarkable exception, that             to observe
the                                                                  the colour

transmitted at any particular thickness of the plate was always
complementary to that reflected at the same thickness ; so that
in homogeneous light, the bright transmitted ring is always
found at the same distance from the centre as the corresponding
dark one of the reflected system.
The observations of Mariotte*, Mazeasf , and DutourJ have
added nothing essential to the laws discovered by Newton.
Most of these observations, in fact, related to the colours ex

hibited by the plate of air inclosed between two plane glasses ;
and in circumstances, therefore, much less favourable to the

analysis of the phenomenon than those selected by Newton.
Perhaps the most interesting of the facts noticed by Mazeas are

the effects produced on the coloured bands by the application
of heat to the glasses, the colours retreating to the edges of the
plates, and the bands diminishing in breadth as the temperature
was increased. The same author also found, that no sensible

change took place in the phenomenon when the air was with

drawn by the air-pump.

   In the observations of Dutour, the reflected and the transmitted

tints were observed at the same time, the latter being reflected

from the second surface of the lower glass, and returning to the
eye through the entire system. This latter set of rings is ren
dered more distinct, when the shadow of an opaque body is passed

over the upper surface. In this manner the phenomenon was
observed by Sir William Herschel ; and it was found that ad

* TraitS de la Lumiere et des Couleurt.                              \ Ibid., torn. iv. v. vi.

t Menoires prhentit, torn. ii.

                                                                 Z2
340 FOURTH REPORT 1834.

ditional sets of rings became visible by increasing the number of
reflecting faces. Sir William Herschel observed, likewise, that
the primary reflected system was produced when a lens was laid
upon a metallic reflector ; and he remarks, that in this case the
transmitted system must be conceived to be absorbed by the
metal. The same author has described a remarkable set of co
loured bands adjacent to the iris, at the limit of total reflexion,
when a prism is in contact with a plane surface*. The analysis
of this phenomenon has been given by Sir John Herschel in his
Essay on Lightf.

  The important observations of M. Arago are the next to de
mand our notice | . Viewing the rings through a rhomboid of
Iceland spar, whose principal section was parallel or perpendicu
lar to the plane  of incidence,  otfhtihsephimilaogseosphvearrieodbsewrvitehd
intensity of the  light in one                                                  that the
dence, and that it                                                             the inci
angle of 35° with
                    vthaenisshuerdfacea.ltogIetthewras  when the   rays made an
                                                         further  observed, that

the same image vanished, and at the same angle, whether the
rings were formed by reflexion or transmission. Thus, the light
of the transmitted, as well as of the reflected rings, was wholly
polarized in the plane                                                         for
glass. M. Arago has      of incidence, and at the usual           angle        re
                        further shown, that the colours           of the

flected and transmitted rings are not only complementary, but
that their intensities are also precisely the same ; for, when the
two systems are superposed, they completely neutralize each

other.
But the most remarkable of the results obtained by this author
relate to the rings formed by the plate of air inclosed between a
lens of glass and a metallic reflector. When these were ob
served in the manner already alluded to, one of the images
vanished, as before, at the polarizing angle of glass ; while its
appearance, at angles above and below the polarizing angle, pre
sented a remarkable contrast. When the incidence was less

than this angle, the two images seen through the double refract
ing crystal differed only in intensity ; the dimensions and colours
of the rings were the same in both. Beyond the polarizing
angle, however, the rings in the two images were of complemen
tary colours ; so that if the series in one commenced from a
black centre, in the other it began from a white one. The di
mensions of the rings of the same order in the two images were
also different. Similar phenomena were produced when the thin

  * " Experiments for investigating the Cause of the coloured Rings," &c, Phil.
Tram. 1807, 1809, 1810.

 Jt "ArStiucrlelses6C4o1,ule64u2rs. des Lames minces," Mt moires d'Arcueil, torn. Hi.
               REPORT ON PHYSICAL OPTICS.                                                               341

plate was of a density intermediate to those of the two sub

stances between which it was contained. I shall hereafter have

occasion to refer to the observations and deductions of Professor

Airy connected with these phenomena.
When the metallic reflector was slightly tarnished, a second
system of rings was visible to the naked eye. The formation
of these rings depended on the light irregularly dispersed at the
surface of the metal ; and they were visible, in whatever manner
the eye was placed with respect to the incident light. Their
tints were complementary to those of the regular series.

   It was soon felt that the phenomena of thin plates were closely
connected with some new and fundamental property of light*, and
that it was in their application to these phenomena that all theories
of light were to be judged. For their explanation, it has been
a"lrefiatsdyofsetaatseyd,refNleexwiotnonanindvetnratendsmhisissiocnel,e"braatdeodctdrioncetrwinheicohf
                                                                                                         the

                                                                                                        will

always hold a prominent place in the page of philosophical hi
story. Its application is obvious. The ray is in a fit of easy
transmission in its passage through the first surface ; this is
succeeded by a fit of easy reflexion, and so alternately. On
arriving at the second surface, then, the ray will be in a fit of
easy transmission or easy reflexion, according as the interval of
the surfaces, or the thickness of the plate, is an even or an
odd multiple of the length of the fit. Thus the alternate suc
cession of bright and dark rings in homogeneous light, and the
arithmetical progression of the thicknesses at which they are
exhibited, are satisfactorily explained. To explain the variation
in the dimensions of the rings depending on the nature of the
        it is                                                         length of
light,  with   ntheecescsoalroyurt,o--sbuepinpgosegretahtaetst  the   red light,  the fits
varies                                                            in              least in

violet, and of intermediate magnitude for the rays of interme
diate refrangibility. Newton determined the absolute lengths
of these fits for the rays of each simple colour, and found that
they bore a remarkable numerical relation to the lengths of

the chords sounding the octave. These results are even yet
referred to as fundamental data in optical inquiries.
To account for the remaining laws Newton was constrained to

make new suppositions, and to attribute properties to the fits
which seem inconsistent with every physical account which has
been given of them. Thus, to explain the dilatation of the rings

   * It is unnecessary to refer to the theories of Sir William Herschel or of
M. Parrot, in both of which the laws of thin plates have been referred to those

of reflexion and refraction ; or to that of Mayer, who attempted to reduce them
to inflexion. None of these theories have had supporters, and they are all of
them inconsistent with obvious facts.
342 FOURTH RKPORT 1834.

with the increasing obliquity of the incident pencil, he assumed
that the length of the fits augmented with the incidence, and ac
cording to a complicated law.   ThIfisthaessufimtsptaioren
ance with the physical theory.                                       is at entire vari
                                                                   produced by the
vibrations of the ether, which are propagated faster than the rays,
and which alternately conspire with and oppose their progres
Isive motion, their lengths should continue the same in the same

medium, whatever be the incidence. No attempt, that am
aware of, has been made to reconcile this law with the physical
hypothesis of Mr. Melville and M. Biot.
The same may be said of the variation of the dimensions of
the rings with the substance of the reflecting plate. Newton
found that when a drop of water was introduced between the
glasses, the rings contracted ; and by comparing their diameters
in air and in water, he found that the corresponding thicknesses
                            to 3, or in                   the inverse ratio of the
of the plate   were   as 4   necessary                    to suppose, therefore,    refrac
tive indices.         was                                                           that in
                  It
different media, the lengths of the fits varied in the same pro
portion ; and, since in the Newtonian theory the refractive in
dices are directly as the velocities of propagation, it followed that
as the velocity augmented, the spaces traversed by the ray in
the interval of its periodical states, must diminish, and in the

same ratio.
But the facts observed by M. Arago and Professor Airy seem
to overturn altogether this part of the theory of emission. The
rings formed by a plate of air, inclosed between a lens of glass
and a metallic reflector, vanish altogether when the light is po
larized perpendicularly to the plane of incidence, and is incident
at the polarizing angle of glass. Under these circumstances,
no light is reflected from the upper surface of the plate ; but as
it is abundantly reflected from the lower, the disappearance of
the rings proves that the light reflected from the upper surface
is essential to their production. That the light reflected from
the lower surface also concurs in their formation, appears from
the effects observed by M. Arago, when the metallic plate was
tarnished ; and we are thus driven to the conclusion that the
phenomena arise from the union and mutual influence of the
pencils reflected from the two surfaces.
This mode of explaining the colours of thin plates was pointed
out by Hooke, in a remarkable passage in his Micrographia,
some years before the subject was taken up by Newton. In
this passage he very clearly describes the manner in which the
orifngtsheosf escuocncdes"sivpeulosred,e"rsordwepaevned,           interval of retardation
                                                          on  the  first ; and therefore on
                                                          on  the

the thickness of the plate. But he does not seem to have had
REPORT ON PHYSICAL OPTICS.                                                                    343

any distinct idea of the principle of interference itself; and his
c"ondcuepplitciaotnedofputhlsee  m"oidseeinntirwehlyicherrtohneeocuoslo. urs   resulted from   this
                                                                              Euler was the   next

who attempted to connect the phenomena of thin plates with
the wave-theory of light ; but the attempt, like all the physical
speculations of this great mathematician, was signally unsuc
cessful. Euler thought, in fact, that the colours of thin plates,
as well as those of natural bodies, arose from emitted, and not

from reflected light. The incident light was supposed to excite
the vibrations of the plate, the frequency of which depended on
its thickness, in the same manner as the frequency of the vibra
tions of the column of air in a tube depends on its length. These
vibrations again were believed to excite those of the luminiferous
ether, and thus to produce the sensation of various colours, the
red corresponding to the less frequent vibrations, and the violet

to the most frequent*.
The subject remained in this unsatisfactory state until the
principle of interference was discovered by Young. When this
principle was combined with the suggestion of Hooke, the whole
mystery vanished. The application was made by Young him
self, and all the principal laws of the reflected rings were readily
and simply explained by the interference of the two portions of
light which are reflected at the two surfaces of the platef . In ap
plying this principle, however, Young perceived that the interval
of retardation was not simply that due to the difference of the
paths traversed by the two pencils ; but that one of them must
be supposed to undergo a change of phase, amounting to half
an undulation, at the instant of reflexion. Young clearly pointed
out the accordance of this effect with mechanical principles ;

and the connexion has been fully confirmed by the more com
plete investigations of Fresnel. In fact, the two reflexions take
place under opposite circumstances, one of the portions being re
flected at the surface of a rarer, and the other at that of a denser

medium ; and the laws of impact of elastic bodies indicate that
the direction of the vibratory movement must be reversed by
reflexion in the one case, while in the other it is unchanged.

Young had the satisfaction of putting this principle to the test

in a remarkable manner. It followed from it that if the thin
plate were of a refractive density intermediate to those of the
two media within which it was inclosed, the laws of the phe
nomenon would be determined by the difference of the paths
alone, the reflexion being of the same kind at the two surfaces.

* Mem. .lead. Berlin, \Th'l.

t *' On the Theory of Light and Colours," Phil. Trans. 1802.
344 FOURTH REPORT-- 1834.

Young accordingly predicted that in this case the rings should
commence from a white centre, instead of a black one, and the

prediction was soon after verified on trial *.
   The transmitted rings are accounted for, in the ware-theory,
by the interference of the direct light with that which has un
dergone two reflexions within the plate; and it follows from the
preceding considerations that their colours must be comple
mentary to those of the reflected system. This origin at once

shows the reason of the fact observed by M. Arago, that the
light of the transmitted rings is polarized in the plane of re
flexion. M. Biot has laboured to reconcile this fact to the theory

of emission, with which it appears, at first view, at utter vari
Iance. The account which he has given of the phenomenon will,

  think, be hardly deemed satisfactory f.
   The theory  of thin plates,  ItasisitocbavmioeusfrothmatthtehehainntdesnosiftyYooufntgh,e
was however    incomplete.

two portions of light reflected from the upper and under sur
faces of the plate can never be the same, the light incident on
the second surface being already weakened by partial reflexion
at the first. These two portions therefore cannot wholly destroy
one another by interference; and the intensity of the light in the
dark rings should never entirely vanish, as it appears to do when
homogeneous light is employed. M. Poisson was the first to

point out and to remedy this defect of the theory. It is evident,
in fact, that there must bean infinite number of partial reflexions
within the plate, at each of which a portion is transmitted; and
that it is the sum of all these portions, and not the two first

terms of the series only, which is to be considered in the calcu
lation of the effect. Taking up the problem in this more gene
ral form, and employing the formula obtained by himself and
Young for the intensity of the light reflected and transmitted at
a perpendicular incidence, M. Poisson has proved that -- at this
                           for which the thickness of                is
incidence, and at  points  length of half a wave, -- the  the plate  of
an exact multiple  of the                                 intensity
the reflected and transmitted lights will be the same as if the
plate were suppressed altogether, and the bounding media in ab
solute contact ; so that when these media are of the same re

fractive power, the reflected light must vanish altogether, and
the transmitted light be equal to the incident J. Fresnel after

·  "S"eSAeucBrciooleut'nsPth"oefnTsoromamieteineCdaedseePsshyoAsfninqtheueaeu,P"xrodtcouorclnot.rioeivna.,"op.fAC3n0on8lao,tueersst ,ds"eeqP.Chhiilm. ieT,rantosm. .1x8x0i2i.. ·

t

%
p. 337. M. Poisson has further shown that rings absolutely black will be formed
St points corresponding to the bright rings in the ordinary case, when the velo
         REPORT ON PHYSICAL OPTICS.                                        345

wards showed that the result was independent of the expression of
                                                                            aid of the property
the intensity of the reflected light                   ;--anthdabtyththee  light is reflected in
discovered by M. Arago, namely,
                                                first                      surfaces of a trans
pthaerenstampelapter,o--pohrteionextaetntdheed    the  and second           to all incidences*.
                                                        conclusion

The general expression of the intensity of the light in any part
of the reflected or transmitted rings has been given by Professor
Airy t-
Here, then, we have reached a point with respect to which the
two theories are completely opposed. According to both, a cer
tain portion of light is reflected from the first surface of the
plate. This in the Newtonian theory is left in all cases to pro
duce its full effect ; while in the wave- theory it is, at certain
intervals, wholly destroyed by the interference of the other pen
cil ; and the dark rings should be absolutely black in homoge
neous light. The latter of these conclusions seems to accord
with phenomena, while the former is obviously at variance with

them. This is clearly shown by an experiment of Fresnel. A
prism was laid upon a lens having its lower surface blackened,
a portion of the base of the prism being suffered to extend be
yond the lens. The light reflected from this portion, according
to the Newtonian theory, should not surpass in intensity that of
the dark rings. The roughest trial is sufficient to show that the
intensity of the light in the two cases is widely different, and
to prove that the dark rings cannot arise (as they are supposed
to do in the theory of fits,) from the suppression of the second
reflexion J.
                           a new method of " photometry by com
   Mr. Potter has applied
parison" to determine the relative intensities of the light in the
bright and dark rings of the transmitted system. In this method
the ratio of the intensities of the light reflected from two plane
glasses is varied, by varying the incidence, until it is judged to
be equal to the ratio of the light in the bright and dark rings.
The former ratio is then deduced from the incidence by means

of an empirical formula. In this manner Mr. Potter concludes
that the ratio of the light in the rings, at a perpendicular inci
dence, is 2-48 for green light, and 3-49 for red §. The ratio de
duced from the principles of the wave-theory is about l-20 in

city of propagation within the plate is a mean proportional to the velocities  in
the bounding media.

    * Annates de Chimie, torn, xxiii. p. 1 29.

   t Math. Tracts, p. 302, &c.

  Jj Memohre sur la Diffraction, p. 347.

       Land. Sf Ed'm. Phil. Mag., 3rd Series, vol. i. p. 174.
346 FOURTH REPORT -- 1834.

the case of crown glass. But, independently of the uncertainty
connected with the empirical law which is taken by Mr. Potter
as the basis of his computation in these deductions, the photo-

metrical method itself seems to be open to objection. It appears
to be assumed, in the application of that method, that where the
quantity of light incident upon an irregularly reflecting surface
is given, the quantity of reflected light will be the same in its
entire amount, and in all directions, whatever be the incidence.
This seems to be contradicted by obvious facts. There is yet
another difficulty in the application of this method which appears
to leave room for some uncertainty in the results. Where lu
minous objects are so small that the eye cannot readily distin
                                       and the intensity of the
guish parts, the  absolute   quantity   how far this may have    light
are confounded.             not aware                            been
                    I am
the case in Mr. Potter's instrument ; but it is remarkable that
if we suppose the quantities of light reflected from the two
glasses to have been taken as the terms of comparison, the cal
culated results will accord very closely with theory *.
When a beam of light falls upon two plates superposed, some
of the many portions into which it is divided by partial reflexion
at the bounding surfaces are often in a condition to interfere
and exhibit colour. Thus, when light is transmitted through two
parallel plates, slightly differing in thickness, the colour pro
duced will be that corresponding to the difference, and will be
independent of the interval of the plates. This phenomenon

was observed by Mr. Nicholson f, and was shown by Dr. Young

to arise from the interference of two pencils, one of which is
twice reflected within the first glass, and the other twice reflected
in the second. Sir David Brewster observed a similar case of

interference produced by two plates of equal thickness, slightly
inclined, the thickness traversed in the two plates being altered
by their inclination. In both these cases, however, the inter
fering pencils are mixed up with, and overpowered by, the light

directly transmitted ; and some contrivance is necessary to make
the fringes visible. The phenomena are much more obvious in
the light reflected by both plates, and which, on account of their

inclination, is separated from the direct light. It is obvious, in
fact, that the direct image of a luminous object seen through the
glasses, will be accompanied by several lateral images, formed
by 2, 4, 6, etc. reflexions. These images Sir David Brewster
observed to be richly coloured. The bands are parallel to the
line of junction of the two glasses, and their breadth is greater

· See Phil. May. vol. v. p. 441.
t Nicholson's Journal, vol. ii. p. 312.
                   REPORT ON PHYSICAL, OPTICS.                            347

the less the inclination of the plates *. The colours in the first
                                    --inteornfeereonfcetheomf thbeepinegncilrsefwlechtiecdh
lateral image are  produced by the
have undergone     two reflexions,

internally by the first plate, and externally by the second, while
the other is reflected internally by the second, and externally by
the first. The routes of these portions differ only by reason of
the different inclinations at which they traverse the intervals of
the surfaces. M. Pouillet has observed a phenomenon of the
same kind, when a thick plate of glass is placed above a metallic
mirror, and in a direction nearly parallel to its surface f. The
interfering rays in this case appear to be those which have un
dergone two reflexions within the plate, and one at the surface
of the mirror ; the reflexion from the mirror preceding the others
in the case of one pencil, and following them for the other.
The routes of two such pencils will slightly differ, owing to the
different obliquity under which they traverse the plate.

   The remarkable phenomena observed by Mr. Knox when a
double-convex lens was combined with two plane glasses, one

adjacent to each surface, have been explained by Young on the
same principles. In addition to the rings exhibited by each
plate of air, a third system of concentric rings is formed in this
case, the dimensions of which are greater than those of either of
the primary systems. The diameters of these rings increase
indefinitely as those of the primary systems approach to equality ;
until finally the circles become straight lines when these are

equal J. It is easily seen, in fact, that each ring is the locus
of the points for which the difference of the thicknesses of the
two plates of air is constant ; and that this locus is a circle,
whose diameter will depend on the curvatures of the surfaces,
     on the interval  of  t"hedocuebnletreps laotfest"hehatwveo
and  fringes formed   by                                                   primary systems.
The                                                                       been observed un
der another form by Mr. Talbot, when two films of thin blown

glaTsshewe"recoslouupresrpoosfedth. ick plates ' ' are perhaps of too unusual
occurrence to entitle them to be studied as a separate class of
optical phenomena : the attention which they have received is

owing to the investigations of Newton. In the experiment of
Newton a beam of light is admitted through a small aperture,
and received on a concavo-convex mirror with parallel surfaces,
the second of which is silvered. When a screen of white paper
is then held at the centre of the mirror, having a hole in the
middle to allow the beam to pass and repass, a set of broad

     · Edin. Trans., vol. vii. p. 435.
        Elcmens de Physique, torn. ii.
       Phil. Trans. 1815, 161.
     X f-                                                           478.
                                            p.

                                                                p.
348 FOURTH REPORT -- 1834.

coloured rings will be depicted on it, similar to the transmitted
rings of thin plates, the diameters of the rings varying inversely
as the square roots of the thicknesses of the mirrors. The Duke
de Chaulnes observed that similar phenomena were produced
when a metallic mirror was substituted for the glass one, and
the rays transmitted through a semi-transparent plate of any
kind, or even through a screen of gauze placed at a short
distance in front of the mirror *. Sir W. Herschel found

that the rings could be produced by scattering fine powder in

the air before the mirrorf ; and M. Pouillet has ascertained that

similar rings are formed when the light incident on the mir
ror is simply transmitted through an aperture of any form in

an ojiake screen %· More recently Mr. Whewell and M. Que-

telet have observed a set of coloured bands, which are formed
when the image of a candle is viewed in a plane glass mirror ;
the candle being held at a short distance in front of the eye, so
that the incident and reflected rays may make a small angle
                                                                                     §.
M. Quetelet appears to think, however, that this phenomenon                          is

to be referred to a different class from those last considered.

Newton very ingeniously accounted for the colours observed
in his experiments by the fits of easy reflexion and transmission
of that portion of light which is scattered in all directions at the

first surface of the glass ; and M. Biot has extended the expla
nation to the analogous phenomena observed by the Duke de
Chaulnes. Young showed that they could be explained by the
interference of the two portions of light which are scattered in
the passing and repassing of the ray through the refracting sur
face || . The  complete investigation, as far as relates   to the di
mensions of    the successive rings, is given by Sir John  Herschel ;

and the formula obtained is found to agree precisely with New
ton's measures %.
   When the interval between two glasses is filled with different
substances, such as water and air, or water and oil, in a finely
subdivided state, the portions of light which have traversed them
are in a condition to interfere, the interval of retardation de

pending on the difference of the velocities of light in the two
media. Accordingly, coloured rings will be seen when a lumi

nous object is viewed through the glasses ; the rings being
similar to those usually seen by transmission, but much larger.

* Mem. Acad. Par. 1755.                        f Phil. Trans. 1807.

X Elemens de Physique, torn. ii. p. 476.

§   "CoOrrnespthoendTahnceeory  Mathhnalique,    torn. v. p. 6, et torn. vi. p. 1.   Brit.,
||                               of Light and
Art. Chromatics.                               Colours," Phil. Trans. ; and Encycl.

^| Essay on Liyht, Art. 679, el scq.
             REPORT ON PHYSICAL OPTICS.                                                               349

But when a dark object is behind the lenses, and the incident
light somewhat oblique, the rings immediately change their
character, and resemble those of the ordinary reflected system ;
one of the portions in this case being reflected, and therefore
suffering a loss of half an undulation. These phenomena were
bobysehrivmedthaend"ecxoplloauinrsedobf ymYixoeudngpla*,tesa.n"d
                                                                        have been denominated
                                                                         Young also observed
some similar phenomena of colour in an unconfined medium.
Thus, when the dust of the lycoperdon is mixed with water,
the mixture exhibits a green tint by direct light, and a purple
tint when the light is indirect ; and the colours rise in the

series when the difference of the refractive densities is lessened

by adding salt to the water. The interval of retardation in this
case depends also on the magnitude of the transparent particlef .
   In closing the review of this part of the subject, I would ob
serve that any well- imagined theory may be accommodated to

phenomena, and seem to explain them, if only we increase the
number of its postulates, so as still to embrace each new class
of phenomena as it arises. In a certain sense, and to a certain
extent, such a theory may be said to be true, so far as it is the
mere expression of known laws. But it is no longer a physical
theory, whose very essence it is to connect these laws together,
                         their dependence on some higher principle :
and    to  demonstrate   of separate principles, whose mutual rela
       is  an aggregate
-- it

tions are unknown. Thus the cycles and epicycles of the
Ptolemaic system represented with fidelity the more obvious
movements of the planetary bodies ; but when the refinements
of astronomical research laid bare new laws, new epicycles were
added to the system, until at length its complication rendered
it useless as a guide. Such appears to be the present state of
the theory of emission ; and so glaringly does this blemish show
itself in that part of   the theory which has                           b"eeRnevlaesrat
sideration, that one     of its advocates says,                                          under     con
                                                                                           illae   vices

reflexionis et transitus, cum omnibus additamentis fictitiis,

mirabiliores adhuc sunt quam phenomenon ipsum, ad cujus
explicationem in usum sunt vocatcej." The same attribute
appears in the broader divisions of the science ; and the several
classes of                          do not flow from the theory                as from one
common       sopuhrecne,om--ebnuat  each has its separate and                  independent
head, and its separate and independent data. In the wave-

· " Account of some Cases of the Production of Colours," Phil. Tram. 1802.

The Abb6     --MaMzeemasoirneo*ticperhdemntaensy,  facts which  appear  to be  referable           to the same
principles,                                        vol. ii.
Jt MinatryoedrucotnionNewtotoMne'sdicRainl gLsi,te--raGtuorteti,ngpe.n55M6e. moki, vol. v. p. 22.
                                                                                                   i
350 FOtJRTH REPORT -- 1834.

theory, on the other hand, not only the individual laws, but the
classes of phenomena are related ; and to calculate, numerically,
the laws of refraction, the varied phenomena of diffraction, and
tehxopseerieonfce,th--in thpelatelesn, gtwhe  only            borrow one result from
                                              of a  need  to  light in each medium.
                                                    wave  of

There is thus established that connexion and harmony in its

parts which is the never-failing attribute of truth. But power
ful as is the weight of this intrinsic evidence in favour of the
wave-theory, it has yet stronger claims to our assent. These
                                              vast body of new phenomena which
claims are grounded on the                     (it is to be remembered,) not in a

it explains, -- and explains,
vague and general manner, but in the precise language of
analysis, and with an                         which the                                               of modern
observation have not    accuracy              to impugn.      refinements                             confidently
                       been able
                                                               It may be
said that it possesses characters which no false theory ever
possessed before.

                      Part II.--Polarized Light.

              (1) Polarization. -- Transversal Vibrations.

In the various phenomena which have been hitherto de
scribed as taking place when a ray of light encounters the sur
face of a new medium, it has been assumed that the direction
and the intensity of the several portions into which it is sub
divided are wholly independent of the manner in which the ray
is presented to the bounding surface, the direction of the ray
remaining unchanged. In other words, it was taken for granted
that a ray of light   ohonanditansloldsirriedelecasttiiooannlik;et--o ;ts--hpaaatcnead,rotwuhnaitdth
of that dependent                                                                                      the exception
its properties were                                                                                    that direction

                                                                                                      if the ray were
supposed to revolve round that line as an axis, the resulting
phenomena would be unaltered.
    Huygens was the first to observe that this was not always

the case. In the course of his researches on the law of double

refraction, he found that when a ray of solar light is received upon
a rhomb of Iceland crystal in any but one direction, it is always
subdivided into two of equal intensity. But on transmitting
these rays through a second rhomb, he was surprised to observe
that       two portions    into which                         of them was
were  the  longer equally                           each      their relative                          subdivided
      no                   intense; --              that                                              brightness

depended   ;  on the   position of the              second rhomb with                                 regard to
the first             that there were               two such positions                                in which
              -- and
one of the rays vanished altogether.
                                   REPORT ON PHYSICAL OPTICS.                                     851

From this " wonderful phenomenon," as Huygens justly
          it,   appeared that each of the rays refracted by the first
called       it

rhomb had                            a                    which distinguished       ; it
from solar                                                fact, acquired sides                it
                acquired              Itprohpaedr,tieisn                              altogether
                light.                                                              and was

evident that the phenomena of refraction depended, in some un
          manner, on the relation of these sides to certain
known                                                                                            "plaTnheiss
within    th"e  crystal.           "  Such was            the conclusion of Newton            :
argues,         says he,                 virtue           or disposition in those sides          of the

rays, which answers to, and sympathizes with, that virtue or
disposition of the crystal, as the poles of two magnets answer
to one another."
This conception was followed out by Malus, whose varied
and important discoveries respecting the nature and laws of
polarized light have justly placed him in the rank of founder in
this most interesting branch of science. The molecules of
polarized ray were supposed by him to have all their homolo                         a
                                                                                             a
g"oupsolasirdizeastitounrn"edtoinextphreesssamtheedpirheecntoiomnesn. onH, eaanddopctoemdpathreedtetrhme       a
effect to that of magnet which turns the poles of series of
needles all to the same side. M. Biot has modified the hypo
thesis of Malus in order to embrace the other phenomena ofa
light, and assumed that there was one line, or axis, similarly
placed in each molecule, and that these axes in polarized rayis
were all turned in the same direction. The molecules, however,

are at liberty to revolve round these axes, and thus to assume
different dispositions with respect to the attracting or repelling
forces to which they are exposed when they encounter the sur
face of new medium.
          a
The phenomenon of polarization seems to have had much
                       :  Ne"wtIotn      in forcing       him
weight with                               difficult,"       he   tsoayrse,jec"t  the theory   proposed
by Huygens                                                                       to conceive   how the

rays of light, unless they be bodies, can have permanent vir
                                                                                 a

                                                                                     is

                                                                                            a
                                                                                               a
                                                                                                                    ;
tue in two of their sides, which not in their other sides, and
                                                          it
tthhirsouwgihthowuhticahnythreeygaprdassto*.t"heir"       position to the space or medium
                                                             isAre  not all hypotheses errone
ous," he adds in another place,                                     which light supposed to
                                                               "in
consist in pression or motion, propagated through fluid me
dium . . Pressions or motions, propagated from shining
body through an uniform medium, must be on all sides alike?
              ·.                                               appears that the rays of light
whereas by those experiments
have different properties in their different sides f." In this ob.
jection Newton seems to have fixed his thoughts upon that
species of undulatory propagation whose laws he himself had

                Optics, book iii. Query 29.                                      t  Query 28. *
352 FOURTH REPORT -- 1834.

so sagaciously divined. When sound is propagated through air
or water, the vibrations of the particles of the fluid are per
formed in the direction in which the wave advances; and if the
vibrations of the ether, which are supposed to constitute light,
were of the same kind, the objection would seem to be insuper
able. But the case is altered,  as now assumed, the vi
                                if,
                                          is
                                                     it
                                                                is
brations of the ethereal particles be transverse to that of the
ray's progress. And though we were unable to render any ac
count of this hypothesis, or even to show that
                                                                    consistent

with mechanical principles, yet the numerous classes of phe
nomena which
                 has explained, and the striking and exact
                 it
                       if
manner in which its predictions have been verified on trial, com
pel us to admit, that the law to which we have thus reduced so
various and such complicated facts be not itself law of nature,
                                it it,

                                                      a
                                                                a
      at least coordinate with  in such sense that we may
it
    istake    as the representative of actual existence, and reason
       it it
from as we would from an established physical law.
The hypothesis of transversal vibrations first occurred to Dr.
Thomas Young, who illustrated by the propagation of undu
lations along stretched cord agitated at one of its extremities.
              a

Young seems to have been led to this principle while consider
ing the results arrived at by Sir David Brewster, in his re
searches on the laws of double refraction in biaxal crystals.
The principle was soon after raised above the rank of mere
                                a

                                            if

                                                                                a
hypothesis, and shown to be necessary consequence of the
laws of interference of polarized light, the theory of waves

be admitted at all. It follows, in fact, from the laws of com
position of vibrations, that the intensity of the light resulting
from the union of two rays oppositely polarized will be con
stant, and independent     of the phase                             to be the
case in the experimental   researches of  M(asMw. aAsrapgroovaendd  Fresnel,)

only when the vibrations normal to the wave are evanescent.

It appears from the same investigation that the actual vibra
tions are either parallel or perpendicular to the plane of polariza
tion. As far as the phenomena of interference are concerned,
      indifferent which of these results be assumed to be the fact.
it

    is

                 *
                                                la

                                            *.

                                                                                               ;
                                                                                                                          a
But the theory of transversal vibrations itself, when applied to
the laws of double refraction, leads to the conclusion that the

vibrations which constitute the ordinary ray in uniaxal crystals
are perpendicular to the principal plane and this being its
plane of polarization, Fresnel concluded that the vibrations of

polarized ray are on the surface of the wave, and perpendicular
to the plane of polarization

              " Memoirc sur Double Refraction," Mem. Inst., torn. vii.
       REPORT ON PHYSICAL OPTICS.  353

   The principle of transversal vibrations, thus deduced from the
phenomena of interference of polarized light, is easily extended
to the case of common or unpolarized light. For when a ray of
such light falls perpendicularly upon a double-refracting crystal,
it is divided into two polarized pencils, neither of which, it ap
pears from the preceding, can contain vibrations normal to the
surface of the wave. If, then, there were any such in the inci
dent ray, they would be destroyed by refraction, and there
would ensue a loss of vis viva, and consequently a diminution in
the intensity of the light ; in other words, the sum of the in
tensities of the two refracted pencils would be less than that of
the incident, which is contrary to observation. In unpolarized
light therefore, as in polarized, the vibrations are only on the
surface of the waves ; and we must conceive such light to consist
of a rapid succession of systems of waves polarized in every pos
sible plane passing through the normal to the front of the wave.
The phenomenon of polarization then, in this theory, consists
simply in the resolution of the vibrations into two sets, in two
rectangular directions, and the subsequent separation of the two
 systems of waves thus produced.

    The erroneous views of mathematicians on this subject, ac
 cording to Fresnel, have arisen from the imperfect physical
 conceptions which they have made the basis of their reasoning.
 Elastic fluids have been represented as composed of particles in
 contact, capable only of condensation and dilatation ; and ac

 cordingly the accelerating forces have been conceived to arise
 solely from the difference of density of the consecutive shells of

 the fluid. In this case, it is evident that if any row of particles
 is displaced in the direction of the connecting line, this row will

 slide upon the succeeding one, and the motion will be resisted
 by no elastic force. But when we regard these bodies as they
 really are, composed of molecules separated by intervals which
 are probably considerable as compared with their magnitude,
 and acting on one another according to some law varying with
 the distance, the whole question is altered. When any row or

 line of such molecules is similarly displaced, and through a
 space which is small compared with the separating intervals, the
 molecules of the succeeding row will be moved in the same di
 rection by the forces which are thus developed with the change
 of distance ; so that the vibrations of the particles composing
 the first row will be communicated to those of the second, and
 thus the vibratory motion will be propagated in a direction per
  pendicular to that in which it takes place*. The rapidity of the

· The existence of transversal vibrations has been fully established in other
cases of vibratory motion. M. Savart and Mr. Wheatstonehave shown that in
       2A
1834.
854 FOURTH REPORT 1834.

propagation will depend on the magnitude of the force developed
by the displacement. To account for the fact that there are no
sensible vibrations in a direction normal to the wave, we have

only to suppose the repulsive force between the molecules to be
very great, or the resistance to compression very considerable ;
for in this case, it will be seen, the force which resists the ap
proach of two strata of the fluid is much greater than that which
                their sliding                                             Fresnel's  v"ieCwosnsoindetrhais
opposes         are contained            on          one another.         entitled,
subject                                   in         a short paper,
tions Me"caniques sur la Polarisation de la Lumiere*," and in
his celebrated memoir on double refraction f.
       The principle of transversal vibrations, however, has not
been received without much discussion; and even to this hour,

the opinion of the mathematical world is not entirely at rest
upon the subject. In a memoir on the propagation of motion
in elastic fluids, read before the Academy of Sciences in the

year 1823, M. Poisson arrived at the conclusion that the vi

bratory motions of the particles finally become normal to the
wave, whatever be the direction of the original disturbance %.
To this Fresnel replied that the equations of motion of elastic
fluids employed by M. Poisson are but a mathematical abstrac
tion, which do not apply to anything actually existing. That
in fact these fluids are assumed to be composed of contiguous
elements, capable of compression in a degree proportionate to the
pressure exerted ; that this hypothesis is untrue ; and that al
though it may accord with the statical properties of these fluids,
it can never lead to the discovery of their dynamical laws§.

   M. Poisson seems to have felt the full force of this objection;
for in his memoirs on the same subject, read to the Academy in

the years 1828 and 1830, he has resumed the whole theory, and

reared it upon its firmer basis. In the former of these memoirs
he has formed the differential equations of equilibrium and
motion of elastic bodies, these bodies being supposed to consist
of molecules attracting or repelling one another according to
some function of the distance                                             In the latter he proceeds to
                                                     a
                                                                     ||.
integrate these equations generally, and to deduce the laws of
propagation of waves at considerable distance from the origin
of disturbance %. In the case of fluids he arrives at the con-

many instances the elementary motions of the molecules of bodies which trans
mi*t
                sound are transverse to the          direction  of the propagation.            torn.  viK
                Bulletin de la Soc. Philom.           1824.           Memoires de I'lrulilut,
                                         la
                "/IvMneamleosirdee                                lexxii.                         Ibid., torn, xxiii.
                                                       et   Mouvement des Corps Elastiques," Mem.
                                                                     t
       If || X                       Chimie, torn.                        §
                                    sur l'Euuilibre
Inst.,"
                torn. viii.         sur  Propagation du Mouvement dans les Milieux Elastiques,"
                Memoire
Mem. Irut., torn. x.
   REPORT ON PHYSICAL OPTICS.                                                  355

elusion which he had before obtained, namely, --that when the

distance from the origin of disturbance is very great compared
with the length of a wave, the motion of the particles, in any
fluid, is normal to the surface of the wave, whatever be the

initial motions. He admits, however, that the fundamental

equations of the motion of fluids, and therefore also the conse
quences deduced from them, will probably require modification
in the case of very rapid motions, such as those of the lumi-
niferous ether ; there being a finite interval of time, whose
magnitude depends on the nature of the fluid, during which the
pressure is not the same in all directions. In the case of very
rapid motions this time must be taken into account, and the
equations of motion of fluids will no longer be those furnished
by the principle of D'Alembert *.

   M. Poisson has shown also that a disturbance produced in a
limited portion of a solid body will give rise to two waves,
which will be propagated with different velocities. He proves
further that whatever be the initial motions of the disturbed
particles, the vibrations in one of these waves will finally be
radial, or in the direction of the motion propagated ; while
those of the other are perpendicular to that direction, or trans
versal. The first are attended with dilatations proportionate
to the absolute velocities of the molecules, and the waves thus

propagated are similar to those which take place in fluids. The
transversal vibrations, on the other hand, are unaccompanied
by any change of density in the medium. M. Poisson does not
seem to think that this result can justify the hypothesis of
transversal vibrations in the ethereal fluid ; though he admits
that the properties attributed to the ether are in some respects
analogous to those of a solid body.
The propagation of transversal vibrations appears to be now
established as a necessary consequence of
                                                        dIynsahmallicashl oprrtilnycihpalevse
by the able researches of M. Cauchy f.
occasion to allude more particularly to the important conclu
sions arrived at by this mathematician, on applying the general
laws of the propagation of motion in elastic media to the case of
light. For the present it will be sufficient to observe that the
form of the wave- surface, obtained in the course of these in

vestigations, is a curved surface of three sheets ; and that con
sequently a ray of light on entering any medium will be, in
general, subdivided into three rays, the directions of the vibra
tions being determined in each. When the elasticity of the
ether, in this medium, is the same in all directions, these three

*  "AnMni-amlnoirdee  Chimie, torn.  xliv.   Lumiere,"  Mim. Inst.,  torn. x.
t                     sur laTheorie   de la

                                     2a2
356" FOURTH REPORT 1834.

rays will have a common direction, and two of them a common
velocity. They are thus reduced to two, a single and a double
ray, coincident in direction ; the vibrations of the former being
                that direction, and those          of
parallel   to  the initial vibrations in         the   the latter perpendicular
to it.                                                 system in question are
          If
contained in a plane perpendicular to the direction of the rays,
the single ray will vanish, and the vibrations of the molecules
of the double ray will be constantly parallel to the direction of
the initial displacements. This condition therefore reduces the
three rays to one, which is unpolarized ; and as this is known
by experience to be the case in media in which the light is pro
pagated in all directions with the same velocity, it follows that
the propagation of transversal vibrations is a necessary conse
quence of the general theory.
Thus the theory of Young and Fresnel has received the
strongest possible confirmation ; and when we consider the nu
merous and important conclusions which have been reproduced
and confirmed by M. Cauchy in the development of his analysis,
it is scarcely possible to believe that there is anything defec
tive in its principle. There is one important and fundamental
difference, however, between the theories of M. Cauchy and
Fresnel ; a difference which seems to mark the limits to which
we have attained in this branch of mathematical physics. Ac
cording to the latter author, it has been already stated, the vi
brations are perpendicular to the plane of polarization, as it is
                           : according to M.
uthsautalplylandee.fineId  am inclined to think  Cauchy they are     parallel to
                                                  that the field on  which this

question between the two theories must be decided, is their ap

plication to the laws of reflexion of polarized light ; and if so,
there seems already reason for believing that the hypothesis of
Fresnel is the true one.

II. Reflexion and Refraction of Polarized Light.

Although the phenomenon discovered by Huygens was one
of the highest interest in itself, and in its bearings of such im
portance, in the mind of Newton, as to force him to admit the
existence of properties in the rays of light which until then had
never been imagined ; yet the result remained for more than one
          years a unique fact in science, and
hundred   the properties which light acquires          the kindred pheno
                                                           aungdreeragtoeers,o--r leress
mena, --                                               in
                                                       it
degree in almost every modification which
mained unnoticed until the beginning of the present century.
In the year 1808, while Malus was engaged in his experimental
researches on the Huygenian law of double refraction, he dis
                  RBPdBT OX PHYSICAL OPTICS.                                                                         357

covered the important fact, that when a ray of light is reflected
from the surface of glass or water at certain angles, the reflected
ray acquires all the characters which had been found to belong
to one of the pencils produced by double refraction. When re
ceived upon a rhomb of Iceland spar, one of the two pencils into
which it is generally divided vanished in two positions of the
principal section with respect to the plane of reflexion ; while
in intermediate positions these pencils varied in intensity through
every possible gradation*. The same variations were observed
when it underwent a second reflexion at the same angle at
which the effect was produced by the first ; the twice reflected
light being a maximum when the plane of the second reflexion
ciitnotiwnocaitsdheepderrepwfreiatnchdteicdtuhlaaptreontfocilt.he--Tftiorhsetr,ewpahrneodsleevnatlingtihhstheininingttehanaltstoitgcyeatsoheef rptahwseshirneeng
                  it,
                                        it
flected light, in any position of the plane of the second reflexion
with regard to the first, Malus assumed to vary as the square
of the cosine of the angle which these planes formed with one
               The accuracy of this law has since been verified by
anothera
the observations of M. Arago and others.
From this law follows that beam of common light may bef.
                  it
                              is

                                              a
                                                                 a
represented as composed of two polarized beams of equal inten
sity, whose planes of polarization are at right angles for when
                                                                    ;

such compound beam received upon reflecting surface at
the polarizing angle, the intensity of the reflected light will be
constant, and independent of the position of the plane of re
flexion. But though this compound beam so far exhibits the
character of common or unpolarized light, must not be re
             it

                                              a
                                                       by
                                                                a

                                                           ; is it

                                                                                         is
garded (as        seems to be by many writers,) as its physical re
presentative.
                   It appears, in fact, from the theory of the com
position of vibrations, that two rays of equal intensity polarized
                          single ray polarized in a single
at right angles compound
plane, when the difference of their phases nothing or equal
to any integer number of semiundulations while in interme
diate cases the polarization of the resulting light                                                                  either

circular or elliptic. These indications of theory have been
                                              beautiful experiment of
confirmed in the fullest manner

Fresnel.
On pursuing his inquiries Malus found that all other trans

parent substances impressed upon the reflected light the same
modification and that the angle of incidence at which this effect
               ;

was produced, and which he called the angle of polarization, was
in general different for every different substance. He ascer
tained, moreover, the relation between the angles of polarization
at the first and second surfaces of the same transparent medium,

       Memoiret d'Arcucil, torn. ii. p. 143.                        Ibid., 254.
·

                                                                   t

                                                                                                                 p.
358 FOURTH REPORT 1834.

and found               that their  ;s--inesso  were     in the ratio of the sines of inci
dence and               refraction              that     when the medium is hounded hy

parallel surfaces, and the light incident on the first at its po
larizing angle, the transmitted portion will meet the second
surface also at its polarizing angle, and the light reflected from
both be wholly polarized *. Malus was unable, however, to
discover any connexion between the polarizing angle and the
other properties of the substances ; and he concluded that the
power of polarizing light by reflexion, which different bodies
possessed at different angles, was wholly independent of their
other modes of action upon light.
Sir David Brewster commenced, not long after, an extensive
series of experiments, with the view of determining the angles of
polarization of different media, and of connecting                                         a law.
These researches terminated in the discovery of                                 them by   -- per
                                                                                the law,

hscaipesncteh,e--mthosatt   "betahuetitfualngienntthoef  whole range    of this interesting
                                                                       polarization is equal
                                                         the angle of
to the refractive index." This law, when translated into geo
metrical language, declares, that when the ray is wholly polar
ized by reflexion, the angles of incidence and refraction are
complementary ; so that the reflected and refracted rays form a
right angle. The law applies to the case of reflexion from the
surface of the rarer as well as that of the denser medium ; and
it follows from it that the two angles of polarization at the bound

ing surface of the same two media are complementary f.

   Malus observed that when the angle of incidence was either

greater or less than the polarizing angle, the properties already
described were only in part developed in the reflected pencil.
Neither of the two pencils into which it was divided by a rhomb
of Iceland spar ever wholly vanished ; but they varied in inten
sity between certain limits, these limits being closer the more

remote the incidence from the angle of complete polarization.
From this he naturally concluded that in these circumstances a
portion only of the reflected pencil
tion to which he had given the name                      ohfadporleacreizivaetdionth, --e mthoadtifpicoar

tion   --incarnedasthinagt  as the incidence approached the polarizing                    an
gle ;                       the remaining portion was unmodified, or in                   the

state of common light. In this supposition Malus has been fol
lowed by most subsequent philosophers. A different view of

* Mhnoiret cCArcurtt, torn. ii. p. 152. M. Arago has extended the same
law to the case of partial polarization, and has found that the sines of the angles
at which the first and second surfaces of a transparent medium polarize light by
reflexion in an equal degree, are to one another in the ratio of the sines of in
cidence and refraction ; so that the pencils reflected from the two surfaces of a
                                                                                of polarized light.
parta"lleOl nplathtee,  at any incidence, contain         the same proportion   by Reflexion from
                        Laws which regulate the          Polarization of Light
transparent Bodies," Phil. Trans. 1815.
                        REPORT ON IMlYSICAL^PTfCS.                             35$)

the phenomenon          of partial polarization      has been  taken by Sir
David Brewster,                                      occasion
                        to which I shall have                  presently to

allude ;  and he has employed his theory             tofirsetxpltaoinobaseprhveen, --o
menon     which he seems to have been the

namely, that common light may be polarized by a sufficient
number of reflexions at any angle, the number of reflexions re

quired to produce the effect being greater, the more remote the
incidence is from the polarizing angle *.
Examining the transmitted pencil, Malus found that it was
partially polarized ; and that its plane of polarization was not,
like that of the reflected pencil, coincident with the plane of re

flexion, but perpendicular to it \. The two portions of light
thus polarized in opposite planes he observed to be intimately
connected ; and in a subsequent memoir he announced the fact
that whenever we produce by any contrivance a ray polarized
in any plane, there is produced at the same time a second ray
polarized in the opposite plane. These two polarized rays
follow separate paths, and their quantities are always propor
tionate. The connexion, however, is still more strict than was

supposed by Malus ; for the quantities of polarized light in the

reflected and transmitted pencils are not only proportionate, but
absolutely equal. This remarkable law was discovered by M.
Arago.

When a ray, which is partially polarized by transmission
through a plate of glass, is received upon a second plate at the
same angle, the portion of common light which it contains

undergoes a new subdivision ; and so continually, whatever be
the number of plates. Hence when that number is sufficiently
great, the transmitted light will be, as to sense, completely
polarized ; and the whole light is thus subdivided into two
pencils oppositely polarized, one of which is reflected from, and
the other transmitted through, the pile. These facts were also
observed by Malus. The laws of the phenomena have since been
investigated, in much detail, by Sir David Brewster ; and he
has arrived at the conclusion, that when a ray of light is trans
mitted successively through any number of parallel plates, the
tangent of the angle at which the polarization of the refracted
penI cmil aayppneoawrs                               their number   J.
                         complete   is inversely as   phenomena         their  re
                        proceed to  consider these                 in

lation to the two theories of light.
Newton proved that the fundamental laws of reflexion and

refraction could be derived from the operation of attractive and

· Phil. Trans. 1815.                                 t Mem. Inst. 1810.
t "On the Polarization of Light by oblique Transmission," &c., Phil. Trans.
1814.
3bO  FOURTH REPORT -- 1S34.

repulsive forces exerted by the molecules of body on those of
light. The phenomena of polarization, however, show that
these forces are exerted in very different degrees, according to
the position of the sides of the ray with respect to the plane of
reflexion or refraction ; and we are now to consider the additional
hypotheses which become necessary in the theory of emission
in order to render an account of these new facts.

   It has been already mentioned that, in the theory of M. Biot,

a polarized ray was one in which certain axes (called the axes

of polarization) of all the molecules were turned in the same

direction. This effect is ascribed to the operation of certain
forces emanating from the molecules of the body. These forces
M. Biot denominates polarizing forces ; and he considers them
as distinct from the reflecting and refracting forces, although
intimately connected with them. The effect of a polarizing force
is to give a rotation to the axes of the molecules ; and that
which impresses the property of polarization upon the reflected
ray is assumed to act in the plane of reflexion. This being sup
posed, since a ray of common light is polarized by reflexion
when incident at a certain angle, we are obliged to admit that,
at this angle, the polarizing force turns the axes of polarization
of all the molecules, and brings them into the plane of reflexion ;
and, since this takes place for all the molecules of the reflected
ray, such an arrangement of the axes is conceived to be a ne
cessary condition of reflexion at that incidence.

   Now let such a polarized ray fall upon a second reflecting
surface at the polarizing angle, and let the plane of the second
reflexion be perpendicular to that of the first. Then the axes of
polarization of the molecules, in their incidence on the second
plate, are perpendicular to the plane of reflexion ; consequently
the polarizing force acting in that plane affects equally the two
halves of the axis, and cannot therefore turn it into the plane
of reflexion, -- a condition which is assumed to be necessary to
reflexion at that angle. No light therefore is reflected. But
when the plane of the second reflexion is inclined to that of the
first at any angle less than 90°, the polarizing force of the
second plate no longer acts symmetrically on the two halves of
the axes of the molecules : it may therefore turn these axes so
as to make them coincide with the plane of reflexion, and thus
subject the molecules to the action of the reflecting force. The
effect of the polarizing force increases as the inclination of the
two planes of reflexion diminishes ; and consequently the num
ber of molecules reflected by the second plate increases likewise.

   But here it is necessary to make another supposition. In
any position of the plane of the second reflexion with respect to
REPORT ON PHYSICAL OPTICS.                         361

the first, except the perpendicular one, experience proves that
a portion of the light is reflected and another portion refracted.
According to this theory, then, some of the molecules obey the
polarizing force and have their axes brought into the plane of
reflexion, while others do not. To account for this diversity of
effect there must be some diversity of condition in the molecules
themselves. The theory of M. Biot supplies this by attributing
to them an oscillatory movement round their axes of polariza
tion, the molecules yielding to the polarizing force or not,
according to the phase of the oscillation in which they are
found at the moment they reach the surface.

   The force which impresses the property of polarization upon

the refracted pencil is supposed by M. Biot to act also in the

plane of incidence, its operation however being to turn the axes
of polarization of the luminous molecules in a direction perpen
dicular to that plane. Thus, when a ray of light traverses the
surface of a plate of glass at the polarizing angle, it is subjected
to the action of two forces, one tending to bring the axes of
polarization of the molecules into the plane of incidence, the
other to turn them at right angles to it; and the molecules them
selves yield to one or other of these forces according to the
phases of their fits. For the manner in which this may be
supposed to take place we must refer to the Traite" de Phy
sique*. The whole quantities of light oppositely polarized by the
two forces, M. Biot supposes to be equal ; but he conceives that
the force which polarizes the reflected pencil is exerted on a
much greater number of molecules than those which actually
                                                   bpeoalmar,i--zedneuitnralitzhee
undergo reflexion.       These molecules, thus
plane of incidence,  enter into the transmitted

an equal number of molecules polarized by refraction in the
opposite plane, -- and compound with them a beam of common
light. The whole quantities of light polarized by the two

forces being then equal, the remaining portions effectively polar
ized will still be equal, conformably to the law discovered by

IM. Arago.

     have endeavoured to present the theory of M. Biot as fully

as the limits of the present paper will permit, because it appears
to me that the number and the nature of the hypotheses re
quired, in order to render any account of the phenomena of
polarization in the theory of emission, furnish in themselves a
sufficient argument against it. But let all these be admitted,
and how far can we be said to have advanced towards an expla
nation of the phenomena ? The assumed forces and the known
laws have not been connected, in any one instance, by the

                     * Book vi. chap. i. vol. iv.
362 FOURTH RKPORT -- 1834.

sure processes of mathematical deduction ; and we are there
fore unable to state how far the explanation offered is com
petent to express even the general facts, -- far less can we

calculate them numerically, and compare the results with those
of observation.

The first attempt to connect the modifications of reflected
light with the theory of waves, was made by Dr. Thomas
Young. This sagacious philosopher succeeded in solving the
problem of reflexion in the case of perpendicular incidence,
and showed that the intensity of the reflected light in that case
was represented by a simple function of the refractive index *.
This formula was afterwards reproduced as the result of a more
refined analysis by M. Poisson, in a memoir on the simultane
ous motions of two elastic fluids in contact, read to the French

Academy in 1817 f. l» that memoir, however, the author had

considered only the case of perpendicular incidence; or the law
of propagation of a plane wave parallel to the bounding surface

of the two media. In a subsequent memoir, to which I have
already alluded, and which was read to the Academy in the year
1823 %, he has resumed the problem generally, and examined
the modifications produced in the intensity as well as the direc
tion of a wave, or series of waves, in passing from one fluid to
another of the same elasticity but of a different density. The
expressions obtained for the intensity of the reflected and re
fracted waves, are functions of the angle of incidence and of the
ratio of the velocities of propagation in the two media. When
the wave is incident upon the surface of the denser medium,
the expression for the intensity of the reflected wave vanishes
at a certain angle, whose tangent is equal to the ratio of the
velocities of propagation. At this angle, which is the angle
of complete polarization,
visible by reflected light;         --obajecretssulsthowuhldichtheisrefcoorentracdeaicsteedto  be
                                                                                               by
all experience, and is only true when the light is polarized in a
plane perpendicular to the plane of reflexion. When the wave
is reflected at the surface of the rarer medium, there are two ex

pressions for the intensity, for incidences above and below the
limiting angle of total reflexion respectively ; there are also in
this case two angles of evanescence. These conclusions, which
apply to the case of sound as well as light, are sufficient to show
the physical inapplicability of the theory.

* Encyc. Brit., Supp., Art. Chromatics.             :. 1 .:<;. M 11*41

fj Mlm. Inst., torn. ii.        m" eMmdomirohiraes
       Only  a portion of this                      been printed in the Memoirs of the
Institute,   under the title                        sur le Mouvemcut de deux Fluidc*

elasticities superposes," torn. x.
            REPORT OX PHYSICAL OPTICS.

   The theory of waves, however, when combined with the prin
ciple of transversal vibrations, has afforded the complete solu

tion of the problem we have been considering. In this develop

ment of his theory the character of Fresnel's genius is strongly
marked. Our imperfect knowledge of the precise physical con
ditions of the question is supplied by bold, but highly probable
assumptions : the meaning of analysis is, as it were, intuitively
discerned, where its language has failed to guide ; and the con
clusions thus sagaciously reached are finally confirmed by ex
periments chosen in such a manner as to force Nature to bear
testimony to the truth or falsehood of
                                                   the theory *.      which
  It is evident that the strata of ether           in the two media,

are adjacent to the bounding surface, must undergo equal dis
placements parallel to that surface, in as much as one of them
cannot slide on the other. Consequently the amplitude of the
vibration, resolved in a direction parallel to the surface, must
be the same in the two media. Fresnel assumes that this

equality at the bounding surface is maintained at all distances ;
and this furnishes him with one relation among the amplitudes

of vibration of the incident, reflected, and refracted waves. A
second relation among the same quantities is afforded by the law
of the vis viva ; but to apply this it is necessary to know the
relative densities of the ether in the two media. Here Fresnel
assumes that the elasticity of the ether in these media is the
samef, but the density different ; and this being taken for
granted, it follows that the two densities are to one another
inversely as the squares of the velocities of propagation, and that
therefore their ratio is given when the refractive index is known.
The amplitudes of the reflected and refracted vibrations, and
therefore also the intensities of the light in the two pencils, are
obtained by simple elimination between the equations just
mentioned.

The expressions for the intensity of the light in the reflected
ray are different, according as the incident light is polarized in

   · Fresnel's theory of reflexion is   contained  "   in a memoir read to the
Academy of Sciences in the year 1 823,  entitled,     Me moire sur la Loi des Modi

fications que la Reflexion imprime a la Lumiere polarisee." An incomplete ex
tract of this memoir was published in the Annates de Chitnie, 1825. The ori
ginal paper was mislaid, and for a time supposed to be lost ; it has lately, how
ever, been recovered among the papers of M. Fourier, and has been printed in
the 1 1th vol. of the Memoirs of the Institute.
  f Fresnel states that he had
                                solved  the problem     of  wreeflllexaisondeninsittyh,e--geinnertahle
supposition that the two media  differ  in elasticity  as

case of rays polarized in the plane of reflexion ; and that the resulting formula
was the same as that to which he had already arrived on the more limited
hypothesis. An. Chun., torn, xxiii.
364 FOURTH REPORT -- 1834.

the plane of reflexion or in the perpendicular plane*. The
intensity of the reflected light in the latter case vanishes when
the sum of      ptthrhouensowuanancsgelesdsolvoebdfuttinhthceirdedeeinffciyeceualtraysn,dbwehrfeoicfrreha,,c----tio"nin    is a right
angle ; and                                                                                                              the opinion
of Young,                                                                                                                would pro
bably long remain, to mortify the vanity of an ambitious philo
sophy, completely unresolved by any theory." When common,
or unpolarized light, therefore, is incident at an angle whose
tangent is equal to the refractive index, the reflected light will
be wholly polarized in the plane of reflexion ; and the beautiful
law of Brewster is among the first fruits of the theory of Fresnel.

The remarkable law obtained by M. Arago is also a necessary
consequence of the same formula* ; and it is easily inferred that
the quantities of polarized light in the reflected and refracted

pencils are equal, whatever be the incidence.
In the case of perpendicular incidence, these formulae are both
reduced to the simple expression obtained by Young and Poisson;
and when the incidence is 90°, or the ray grazes the surface,
the intensity of the reflected light is equal to that of the incident,
or the whole of the light is reflected, whatever be the reflecting
medium. The latter conclusion has been verified by the obser
vation of the bands produced by the interference of direct light
with that which is reflected at an incidence of nearly 90°. The
first dark band appears to be perfectly black ; and therefore the
two lights are, as to sense, of equal intensity f.
   We are thus    furnished with   theexpseorliumtieonntaolifstas,p--ronbalemmelyw, hitchhe
has long baffled   the labours of

determination of the law of intensity of reflected light as depend
ent on the incidence. The formulae obtained have not been

compared with experiment by Fresnel except in the case of two

observations of M. Arago ; the observations of Bouguer and

Lambert being confessedly inaccurate. The result of the com
parison alluded to has been given in the Annates de Chimie %,
and the agreement is as satisfactory as can be expected in obser
vations of the kind.
Mr. Potter has recently examined the intensity of the light
reflected from diamond and glass of antimony, at various inci
dences §. The photometrical method employed in these obser
vations consisted in comparing the light reflected at any incidence
from the substance examined with that reflected from a piece of

* These two formula; were first published in the Annates de Chimie, 1821 ;
     s"ecOonnd   without demonstration.
the             a New Case of Interference,"  Trans. Royal  Irish Academy,                                               vol.  xviit

  f
X torn. xvii. p. 190.
{ Phil. May., Third Scries, vol. i. p. 179; vol. iv. p. C.
                 REPORT ON PHYSICAL OPTICS.                                           365

crown-glass, and then varying the incidence on the latter until
the intensities are observed to be equal. The intensity of the
light reflected from crown-glass at various incidences had been
already obtained from a detailed series of experiments ; and the
results were embodied in an empirical law, in which the intensity is
represented by the ordinate of a rectangular hyperbola, the cor
responding abscissa being the sine of incidence. This formula
then gives the intensity of the light reflected from crown-glass,
and therefore also from the substance examined, at the corre
sponding incidences. Mr. Potter concludes in this manner, that
the intensity of the light reflected from diamond at a perpendicular
incidence is 9*3, and that from glass of antimony 8"2 ; the in
tensity of the incident light being represented by 100. The
intensities calculated from the refractive indices, by the formulae
of Young, Poisson, and Fresnel, are 18-36, and 13*33, respec
tively. This variance in the results of theory and experiment is
undoubtedly beyond the limits of the errors of observation ; and,
were it otherwise, the partial results obtained by Mr. Potter, in
these and other experiments of the same nature, agree too closely
to permit us to refer the discrepancy to such a source. The
principle of the method however, appears, to say the least, un
certain ; and it cannot but be wished that some of the various

photometrical methods recently proposed should be applied to
the examination of this interesting question.
   The formulae of Fresnel supply                 Mth.eAraacgcoo;u--nt naomf eltyh,e
markable phenomenon observed by                                                        re
                                                                                      that

when Newton's rings are formed between a lens of glass and a
metallic reflector, one of the two images into which they are

divided by a double-refracting crystal whose principal section
is parallel or perpendicular to the plane of reflexion, changes its
character as the incidence passes the polarizing angle of the
glass ; the colours being the same as in the other image when

the incidence is less than the polarizing angle, but comple
                 to them when it is greater.      In fact, when the incident
lmigehntta*ryis  polarized perpendicularly    to  the plane of reflexion, the

amplitude of the reflected vibration (which vanishes at the angle
whose tangent is equal to the refractive index,) changes sign in
passing through zero ; being negative when the incidence is
less than that angle, and positive when it is greater. Conse
quently, if the wave reflected from the glass, at the central spot,
is in complete discordance with that reflected from the metal in
the former case, it will be in complete accordance with it in the
latter; and the centre, which before was black, will then be

                                       -                           or after           re

 . · The effect is the same whether the light be polarized before
flexion.
366 FQURTH REPORT 1834.

white. For the same reason the whole system will be comple
mentary to that which it was before. Professor Airy was led
wtporietahssnoitouinctsip,aantyeanktdnhoiswalferteedrsgwuealtrdofsrfotmhveetrhfiaeficetcdsonosbitisdeeorrvnaetidotnrbiaylo*fM, F--.reAasrpnapegalo'rs.enetxAly
similar confirmation of the same principles may be obtained by
combining, in Fresnel's experiment, a metallic reflector with
one of glass. The light being polarized perpendicularly to the
plane of reflexion, the central band will be white when the
angle of incidence is below the polarizing angle of the glass ; at
the polarizing angle the interference bars will vanish altogether ;
and beyond that incidence they will reappear with a dark cen
tre, instead of a white one. This method of observation would

seem to be peculiarly adapted to the investigation of the change
of  phase produced by metallic  reflexion
    By the same considerations  Professor  at various  incidences.
                                                       led to expect
                                           Airy was

sitzhuebadsttpawenhcrepensenNodfeicwduitfloafenrrl'eysnttroinrteghfserawcpteliavrneeefoporomfwienedcrsid,be--entcwtehe,ee--nligtthhwteobrtienriangngsspspahoroeluanlrtd
be black-centred, when the incidence was less than the polarizing
angle of the low- refracting substance, or greater than that of
the high-refracting substance ; while they should                   with
a white centre, when it was intermediate to these       appear     -- the
                                                       angles ;
vibrations of the waves reflected from the two surfaces being of
opposite signs in the former case, and of the same sign in the
latter. All these expectations were fully confirmed by experi
ment f. The substances selected    bdyiamProonfde,s--sortheAsiery    for these
                                                                   substances
observations were plate-glass and
differing very widely in their refractive powers; and in the
course of his experiments he has noticed certain peculiarities in

the phenomena, from which he has drawn some highly interest
ing conclusions respecting the nature of reflexion from diamond.
Had this been subjected to the ordinary laws, the reflexion
should cease, and the rings disappear, at the polarizing angle
of both substances. This however was not the case. The rings
did not vanish at the polarizing angle of the diamond ; but the
first black ring contracted, as the incidence was gradually in
creased, and finally usurped the place of the central white spot.
A portion of the light is therefore still reflected at the maxi
mum polarizing angle of diamond ; and it is evident from the
phenomenon that the transition from a white to a black centre
is owing to a gradual change of phase of the reflected vibration,

    · " On a Remarkable Modification of Newton's Rings," Cambridge Trans.

   t " On the Phenomena of Newton's Ring9, when formed between two trans

parent substances of different refractive powers," Cambridgt Tram. 18»2.
            REPORT ON PHYSICAL OPTICS.                               367

amounting to nearly 180°, while the coefficient of the vibration
itself is not much altered. The diamond therefore has no angle
of complete polarization ; and Professor Airy concludes that the
nature of the reflexion from this singular substance, in the
neighbourhood of the angle of maximum polarization, is differ
ent from any that has been hitherto described.
Fresnel's theory of reflexion has received experimental confir
mation of a different kind, and to an extent which leaves little
ground to doubt of its truth. When a ray polarized in any plane
falls upon a reflecting surface at any angle, the reflected ray is
still polarized, but its plane of polarization is changed,-- the
amount of the change depending on the incidence. The law of
this change is at once furnished by the theory of Fresnel ; for
the tangent of the inclination of the plane of polarization of the
reflected ray to the plane of incidence, is equal to the ratio of
the displacements in the plane of incidence and in the perpen
dicular plane. The formula thus deduced has been verified in
the most complete manner by the observations of Fresnel him
self, and more fully since by those of M. Arago and Sir David

Brewster*.
The views of the latter philosopher respecting the nature of
                                         ubpyornefltehxeiopnh. enoImf ceonmonmonof
partially polarized light are founded
the change of the plane of polarization
light be conceived to consist of two pencils oppositely polarized,
in planes inclined 45° on either side of the plane of reflexion, the
effect of reflexion, it is obvious, will be to bring each of these
planes nearer to the plane of incidence ; so that the planes of
polarization of the two pencils will approach each other, and form
an acute angle after reflexion. Part ia lly polarized light, then,
according to Sir D. Brewster, consists of two polarized pencils,
whose planes of polarization form an acute angle ; and no por
tion of it is in the condition of ordinary lightf . This hypothesis
receives some support from the explanation which it affords
of the effects of successive reflexions. When light thus con
stituted is received upon a second reflecting surface in the same
plane of incidence, the planes of polarization of the two pencils
will be brought nearer, and so continually ; until by a sufficient
number of reflexions, these planes will, as to sense, coincide
with the plane of incidence, and the resulting light will appear
to be wholly polarized in that plane.

· Annates de Chimie, torn, xvii.; Phil. Trans. 1830.
t Sir David Brewster has computed, on these principles, the quantity of
light apparently polarized in the plane of incidence, by a single reflexion at any
angle ; adopting Fresnel's expression for the intensity of the reflected ray. The
agreement of the formula with                     of  "M.OnArathgeo   is found to be
as near as can be expected in  the observations                      Law of Partial
                               such comparisons.
?olarization of Light by Reflexion," Phil. Trans. 1830.
                              FOURTH REPORT 1834.

   This   --ingneanmioeulsy,  theory seems open to an objection already
                              that the light resulting from the union of
noticed,
two oppositely polarized pencils cannot, in all respects, be
taken as the physical representative of common or unpolarized

light. It also involves this further difficulty, that the positions

of the planes of polarization of the two oppositely polarized

portions are entirely arbitrary ; and that if they be differently
assumed, the results will be physically different. Thus, for ex
ample, if the two planes be taken, one coincident with the plane
of reflexion itself, and the other with the perpendicular plane,
neither of these planes will be changed by reflexion, although
the intensities of the corresponding pencils will.
Sir David Brewster has also investigated experimentally the
effect of refraction upon the plane of polarization of the refracted
ray ; and he has found that the law of the change may be ex
pressed by a very simple and elegant formula *. This formula
is a necessary consequence of Fresnel's theory, although he does
not seem himself to have observed it. Its discovery by Sir
David Brewster adds one to the many instances of rare saga
city by which this philosopher is guided in his experimental
inquiries. The partial polarization of light by refraction has

been considered by Sir David Brewster in the same memoir. In
the investigation of the quantity of polarized light in the refracted
pencil, he employs a principle similar to that which he had
already applied to the reflected ray ; and he arrives at the result
that the quantities of polarized light in the reflected and refracted

pencils are precisely equal, whatever be the incidence, con

formably to the law of M. Arago. The effects produced by suc
cessive refractions are accounted for on the same principles.
   Sir David Brewster seems to have been the first who studied

the effects produced by total reflexion upon polarized light, and
he observed in particular the complementary colours which the
light thus reflected furnished when analysed with a rhomb of

Iceland spar f. At this time both he and Dr. Young concurred
in thinking that these phenomena arose from the interference of
two portions of light which were reflected at unequal depths ;
one portion, according to Dr. Young, beginning to be refracted,
and being then turned back by the continued exercise of the
same power J.

· a and a' being the azimuths of the planes of polarization of the incident and
refracted rays, estimated from the plane of reflexion, and i and i' the angles of
incidence and refraction,
                            cot a' = cot a cos  (i -- i').
f" On the Laws  of the Polarization of Light                     Phil.  Trans.  1830.
Journ. Royal Inst., vol. iii.                   by Refraction,"

X Suppl. Encyc. Brit., Art. Chromatics.
                                   REPORT ON PHYSICAL OPTICS.            369

Fresnel had likewise observed, at an early period of his in
quiries, that when a ray polarized in a plane inclined at an
angle of 45° to the plane of incidence undergoes total reflexion,
it is in part depolarized ; and that this depolarization is rendered
complete by two total reflexions at an incidence of about 50°.
The reflected light being then circularly polarized, is, according
to theory, composed of two equal pencils, one polarized in the
plane of incidence, and the other in the perpendicular plane, and
differing in their origin by a quarter of a wave. From this it
followed that the two pencils into which the incident light may
be resolved, polarized in these two planes, are not reflected at
the same depth; or that they have undergone unequal changes
of phase at the moment of reflexion, so that after reflexion one
of them is in advance of the other. After many ineffectual
attempts to discover in what manner this difference of phase de
pended on the incidence, Fresnel was at length conducted to
the solution of the problem by the discussion of the formulae
for the intensity of the reflected light already noticed.
dfleiuxWmiohn,--e, n--thttehhseee  angle of incidence exceeds the angle of total re
                                   light passing from the denser   into  the rarer me
                                   formulae become imaginary.            evident, how
                                                                  It is
ever, from the law of the vis viva, that the intensity of the re
flected light in this case is simply equal to that of the incident.
How, then, are the imaginary expressions to be interpreted ?
They signify, according to Fresnel, that the periods of vibration
of the incident and reflected waves, which had been assumed to

coincide at the reflecting surface, no longer coincide there when
the reflexion is total ; or in other words, that the ray undergoes
a change of phase at the moment of reflexion. The amount of

this change is deduced, by a train of the most ingenious reason
ing, from the general expressions. Now when a ray, polarized
in any azimuth, is incident upon the reflecting surface at an
angle greater than the angle of total reflexion, it may be resolved
into two : one polarized in the plane of incidence, and the
other in the perpendicular plane. The intensities of these two
portions will not be altered by reflexion ; but their phases will,
and each by a different amount. The reflected vibration, there
fore, will be the resultant of two rectangular vibrations differing
in phase. This vibration, consequently, will be elliptic, and
the reflected light will be elliptically-polarized.                      When the
azimuth of the plane of polarization of the incident ray is 45°,
the intensities of the resolved portions are equal ; and more
                                   2

                                                                  a is
                                                                          if,

                                                                                                   a
over, their difference of phase, after reflexion,                        equal to
quarter of an undulation, the ellipse will become                        circle, and
the light will be circularly -polarized.

1834.                              b
370 FOURTH REPORT -- 1834.

Reducing his formulae to numbers, in the case of St. Gobain
glass, Fresnel found that the difference of phase of the two por
tions of the reflected light amounted exactly to one eighth of an
undulation, when the angle of incidence was 54° 37'. Polishing,
therefore, a parallelopiped of this glass, whose faces of incidence
and emergence were inclined to the other sides at these angles,
it followed that a ray incident perpendicularly on one of these
                                      --of tthhee  sides, would
faces, and once  reflected at  each                difference of  emerge per
pendicularly at  the opposite  face,                              phase in the

two portions of the twice-reflected ray amounting to a quarter of

an undulation. If, then, the incident ray be polarized in a plane
inclined at an angle of 45° to the plane of reflexion, the emergent
light will be circularly -polarized. This was found to be the
case on trial ; and the parallelopiped thus constructed, and which
is known under the name of Fresnel' s rhomb, is of essential ser

vice in experiments on circular and elliptic polarization. The
results of this remarkable theory have been confirmed by Fresnel
by other well-chosen experiments ; so that although the reason
ing on which it is based is far from rigorous, there can remain
little doubt of its general truth. Fresnel was himself fully aware
of the incompleteness of his solution, considered in an analytical

point of view. In his memoir he has adverted to the method to
be adopted in order to obtain an exact solution of the problem,
unlimited by any arbitrary hypothesis ; and he proposed himself
to resume the question. But his brilliant career of discovery

was cut short by an untimely death.
   The problem of the reflexion and refraction of polarized light

has also engaged the attention of M. Cauchy*. The solution
given by this mathematician is derived from a consideration of
the conditions which must be fulfilled at the separating sur
face of the two media ; and it assumes that the density of the
ether is the same in both. The expressions obtained for the
amplitudes of the vibrations in the reflected wave agree with
those of Fresnel. The corresponding quantities for the refracted
wave differ from those deduced from Fresnel's theory, by the
simple inversion of the ratio of the sines of incidence and re
fraction, which occurs as a factor in both cases ; and, thus,
pmthlaaonnueyghoinftshtpaeonlcfaoerrsimz, au--tliaoeans,aorffeotrhdeieffxeraermefrnpatlc,et,edthinepitrehneccoidln.esteeqrImuteiinnsaceitmisonpoargtoraefnetthitneo
observe, however, that according to the formulae of M. Cauchy,
the velocities of the ethereal molecules in the refracted wave are

greater than in the incident ; so that the law of the vis viva is

                 · Bulletin Univertel, torn. xiv. p. 6.
REPORT ON PHYSICAL OPTICS.  371

violated. This is not the case in Fresnel's results, which are in
fact derived from that law.

   The phenomena of metallic reflexion remain yet to be noticed
in connexion with this division of the science of light.

   The effects produced upon light by reflexion at the surfaces of
metals did not escape the scrutiny of Malus. From his first
experiments upon the subject, Malus concluded that metals had
no effect in polarizing the light. He soon, however, modified this
opinion, and found that the phenomenon of polarization was
partially produced, the effect increasing to a maximum as the
incidence approached a certain angle. But the most instructive
mode of studying these phenomena, is to let fall upon the metal
lic reflector a ray polarized in a plane inclined at an angle of
45° to the plane of reflexion, and to analyse the reflected pencil
by a double refracting prism. Proceeding in this manner Malus
found that when the incidence was very small or very great, the
reflected ray was still polarized ; while at moderate incidences
it was depolarized, and the pencil was divided into two in every
position of the rhomb. From these facts Malus concluded that

the difference between metals and transparent bodies consisted

in this, that the latter reflect all the light which is polarized in
one plane, and refract all the light polarized in the opposite
plane ; while metals on the other hand reflect light which is
polarized in both planes.

   The subject of metallic polarization was next examined by
Sir David Brewster ; and his labours on this subject constitute
the most important addition which has been recently made to
our knowledge of the laws of polarized light*. When light re
flected at a metallic surface is analysed by a double-refracting
crystal, it is observed to be partially polarized in the plane of
reflexion. The effect is greatest in galena, and least in silver;
and the angle at which it is a maximum is about 74°, but varies
with the metal. By successive reflexions in the same plane Sir
David Brewster found that the proportion of polarized light was
increased ; and that by a sufficient number of reflexions the light
became, as to sense, wholly polarized in the plane of incidence.
The number of reflexions required to produce this effect varied
widely in the different metals.

   In order to determine the nature and laws of this phenomenon,
it is necessary to examine the effect produced upon polarized
light. Adopting, then, the method of Malus, Sir David Brewster

found that when a ray of light polarized in the azimuth of 45°

   · " On the Phenomena and Laws of Elliptic Polarization, as exhibited in the
Action of Metals upon Light," Phil. Trans. 1830.

                                                        2B2
372 FOURTH REPORT -- 1834.

was received upon a metallic reflector at an incidence greater

than 40° and less than 86°, the reflected light was partly depo
larized. The effect produced was greatest at an angle of about
74° ; and when the light underwent a second reflexion in the
same plane and at the same angle, it was restored to light po
larized in a single plane. This new plane lies always on the
other side of the plane of reflexion; and its azimuth varies within
the limits 0° and 45°, being greatest for silver and least for

galena. It is evident, then, that the light produced by a single
reflexion cannot be common light. Neither is it plane-polarized
light, because it does not vanish in any position of the analysing
rhomb. Sir David Brewster concludes, that this light has re
ceived a species of polarization hitherto unrecognised, interme
diate between plane and circular polarization. He calls it elliptic
polarization, because the angles of reflexion at which this light
is restored to plane-polarized light, in any azimuth of the plane
of the second reflexion with regard to the first, may be repre
sented by the variable radii of an ellipse ; while these angles are
equal in all azimuths in the case of light circularly-polarized.
Sir David Brewster seems to have been led to employ the
term "elliptic polarization" in this manner, in his desire to
avoid as much as possible all reference to theory. The laws
which he has obtained, however, belong to elliptically-polarized
lIitghatp,peinarsth, einsefancste,  in which the term was introduced by  Fresnel.
                                    from the theory of the composition   of vibra

tions, as laid down by this author, that the vibration resulting
from the union of two rectilinear and rectangular vibrations,
will be   in general elliptic;
         compound in general         so that  eltlwipoticoapllpyo-psoitlealryizepdo,la--riztheed
pencils                             a pencil
ellipse becoming a right line, when the difference of phase of the
two portions is an integer multiple of 180°. When, therefore,
by the effect of reflexion, two such pencils are made to differ 90°
in phase (as Sir David Brewster has shown to be the case when
a ray polarized in the azimuth 45° is incident at the maximum
polarizing angle of the metal), a second reflexion in the same
plane, and at the same angle, will raise the difference to 180°,

and the resulting light will be plane-polarized. In other parts
of his memoir, however, Sir David Brewster seems to acknow
ledge that theory ; for he speaks of elliptic polarization as pro
duced by the interference of two unequal portions of oppositely
polarized light, and even calculates their difference of phase for

any incidence.
The identity of the light produced by metallic reflexion, with
the elliptically-polarized light of the wave-theory, seems to be
placed beyond all doubt by an observation of Professor Airy.
                REPORT ON PHYSICAL OPTICS.                                 373

When Newton's rings are formed between glass and metal, --
                                                                             of incidence
the incident light being   anpgolleariozef dt,heagnldastsh, e--aint gilse  found that the
exceeding the polarizing
rings dilate, as the azimuth of the plane of polarization with
respect to the plane of reflexion is increased ; the dilatation
being a maximum when these two planes become perpendicular.

In order to account for this fact, Professor Airy has shown, that
if the vibrations of the incident pencil be resolved into two, one
in the plane of incidence, and the other in the perpendicular
plane, it is necessary to assume that their phases are unequally
changed by reflexion ; the phases of the vibrations in the plane
of reflexion being more retarded than in the perpendicular plane.
The two oppositely polarized portions, therefore, will differ in
phase after reflexion, and will therefore compound a pencil ellip-
tically -polarized. Professor Airy has observed a similar pheno
menon when Newton's rings were formed between diamond and
plate-glass, the angle of incidence being a few degrees less than
the maximum polarizing angle of diamond ; and he concludes
that, for such incidences, the nature of reflexion from diamond is
analogous to metallic reflexion.
Sir David Brewster has extended his researches on the subject
of metallic reflexion to a great variety of cases, and has traced the
effects of successive reflexions in the same, or in different planes ;
and at the same, or different angles. When the light which has
been restored to plane-polarized light, by two reflexions in the
same plane and at the maximum polarizing angle, undergoes a
third reflexion under the same circumstances, it becomes again
elliptically-polarized. By a fourth reflexion it is again restored to
plane-polarized light, the plane of polarization being, however,
brought nearer to the plane of reflexion. This continued ap
proach of the plane of polarization to the plane of reflexion,
enables the author to explain, according to his peculiar views,
the effect of
                successive reflexions upon common light.                   reflexion
   It remains,   further, to extend the theory of Fresnel to

at the surface of a medium in which the elasticity of the ether

is different in different directions. All that we know on this
                           we owe to the unwearied zeal of Sir David
interesting  sIutbjheacdt  been supposed by Malus, and the opinion
Brewster.

seems to have passed current with succeeding philosophers, that
the exterior surfaces of crystallized substances acted upon the
reflected light exactly in the same manner as the surfaces of or
dinary media ; or, in the language of the theory of emission,
that the reflecting forces extended beyond the limits of the/;o-
larizing forces of the crystal. Sir David Brewster was led to
doubt this opinion ; and in the year 1819 he undertook an ex
374                     FOURTH REPORT 1834.

tensive series of experiments on the subject of crystalline re
flexion. One of the first results at which he arrived was, that
the angle of complete polarization on the same surface, varies
with the inclination of the plane of reflexion to the principal
section of the crystal ; being least when the plane of reflexion
coincides with the                                                         it is
perpendicular to it  ;  --prainncdiptahlat  section, and greatest when   varia
                                            with different surfaces the
tion depended on the inclination of the surface to the axis of the
crystal. The difference of the greatest and least angles in the
case of Iceland spar, and on one of the cleavage planes of the

crystal, was found to amount to more than 2°.
   But the effects produced upon the plane of polarization are
still more remarkable. On weakening the reflecting force, by
causing the reflexion to take place at the surface of contact of
the crystal and some fluid, such as oil of cassia, which had nearly
the same refractive power, Sir David Brewster found that the ray
was no longer polarized in the plane of reflexion ; and that the
deviation of the plane of polarization from the plane of re
flexion depended on the angle which the incident ray formed
with the  axis of the crystal.   This relation Sir David Brewster
found to  be expressed by the   law,-- that the sine of half the de
viation varied as the square-root of the sine of the inclination of
the incident ray to the axis*.

   It is much to be desired that the attention of analysts should

be directed to the problem of reflexion at the surface of extra

ordinary media. It is one of the very few important provinces

of the science of light, which has not yet yielded its tribute to

fthe wave-theory ; and we can hardly conceive a finer subject for

the exercise of mathematical and physical skill .

                                                                                     ;< »' i ·  · .;r- '..'. .;;-;.!

· " On the action of Crystallized Surfaces upon Light," Phil. Trans. 1819.
T Since the preceding was written, Mr. M'Cullagh has arrived at an expres
sion for the angle of polarization at the surface of crystallized media, in the
case in which the plane of reflexion coincides with one of the principal sections
of Fresnel's ellipsoid; and he has found that the law, which he has extended
Ifby analogy to all cases, represents with much exactness the observations of
Sir David Brewster.     a and 6 denote the semiaxes of the elliptic section

formed by the intersection of the plane of reflexion with the ellipsoid of indices,
     the ellipsoid whose axes coincide in   direction  with the axes  of elasticity  of
(or  medium, and are equal to its three     principal  indices,) and  r the radius   of
the

the same section coinciding with the face of the crystal; the angle of polariza
tion, », will be the same at whichsoever side of the perpendicular the ray is in
cident, its value being given by the formula,

                                            1----

                        bin* e =            -- j--
                   REPORT ON PHYSICAL OPTICS.                             375

                     III. Double Refraction.

   The phenomenon of double refraction was first discovered by
Erasmus Bartholinus, in Iceland spar. After a long series of
observations, he found that one of the rays within the crystal
observed the known law of refraction discovered by Snellius,
while the other was bent according to a new and extraordinary
law. An account    of these experiments      "waEsxppeurbilmisheendta  at Copen
                   1669, under the title
hagen in the year                                                       Crystalli
lslandici Disdiaclastici, quibus mira et insolita refractio de-
tegitur."
The success of Huygens in deriving the laws of ordinary re
fraction from the hypothesis of waves, naturally led him to

examine whether these new phenomena could be reconciled to
the same theory ; and in his desire to assimilate the two classes
of phenomena, he was happily led to assign the true law of
extraordinary refraction. Huygens had already shown that the
direction of the refracted ray, in glass and other uncrystallized
substances, could be deduced from the supposition, that the ethe
real wave within the substance was a sphere ; or, in other words,
that the velocity of undulatory propagation was the same in all
directions. One of the rays in Iceland crystal, too, was found
to obey the same law ; and judging that the law which governed
the other, though not so simple, was yet next in simplicity, he
assumed the form of its wave to be the spheroid of revolution,
the greater and lesser axis of the generating ellipse being in the
ratio of the greatest and least index of refraction. The form of
the wave being known, the law of refraction is derived from the
principle of the superposition of small motions. Conceive three
surfaces having their common centre at the point of incidence,
                                                         positions of three
and representing  respectively   the simultaneous        in air, the other
waves diverging   from that
                                point, -- the first
two within the crystal. Let the incident ray be produced to
meet the air wave, and at the point of intersection let a tangent
plane be drawn : through the line of intersection of this plane
with the refracting
two refracted waves  ;s--urftahcee,linleest  planes be   drawn touching   the
                                             connecting  the centre with  the

points of contact are the directions of the two refracted rays.
This beautiful construction, and the other speculations of Huy
gens on the subject of extraordinary refraction, are contained
in the fifth chapter of his Traite' de la Lumiere.
Huygens was unable to reconcile the existence of a double
wave within the crystal with the supposition of a single vibrating

medium ; and he was accordingly forced to assume the existence
of two such media, the spherical wave being propagated by the
376 FOURTH REPORT -- 1S34.

vibrations of the ether alone, while the spheroidal wave arose
from the vibrations of the crystal and the ether jointly.

   For the construction of Huygens, Newton substituted another,
without stating the theoretical grounds on which he formed it, or
even advancing a single experiment in its confirmation*. In
this unsatisfactory position the problem of double refraction
was suffered to rest for nearly a century ; and it was not until
the period of the revival of physical optics in the hands of Young,
that any new light was thrown upon the question. This saga
cious philosopher was led by the theory of waves to assume the

ftruth of the law of Huygens ; and it was by his advice that Dr.

Wollaston undertook the experimental examination which re
called to it the attention of the scientific world, and ended in its

universal admission. The French Institute soon after proposed
the question of double refraction as the subject of their prize
essay, and the successful memoir of Malus left no doubt remain

ing as to the accuracy of the Huygenian law J.

   The examination of Malus was chiefly directed to the case of
Iceland spar ; but he made a few similar measurements, also,

in quartz, sulphate of barytes and arragonite. In the first of

these crystals he mistook the ordinary for the extraordinary ray j
and the faces which he chose for examination in the two latter

not happening to be well adapted to the discovery of their pro
perties, he was satisfied with a hasty generalization of the law
observed in Iceland spar, and concluded that it belonged to
all double refracting bodies. Malus entered largely, in the same
memoir, into several questions connected with the problem of
double refraction ; and he showed, in particular, that the laws
of extraordinary reflexion                 surfaces of
deducible from the law of   at the second  a memoir                                                                                                               crystals  are
                                                                                                                                                                 presented   to
                            Huygens. In
the Institute, in the following year §, he extended consider
ably the list of bodies possessing the property of double refrac
tion ; and arrived at the conclusion that this property belonged
to all crystals, excepting those whose primitive form was
the cube or regular octahedron. Most organized substances,
whether vegetable or animal, were found to possess the same

properties.

   In Iceland spar the extraordinary refractive index is less than

the ordinary. The extraordinary ray consequently is always
refracted from the axis of the crystal ; and the same law had
been supposed to belong to all double-refracting substances.

·  """OSpTOtuhincresol,t'hrAiebexoeoOdkbcdleiilqiaRiu.,eeDfqroauRuecebrtfylireoan2cR5tdei.oefsnraCcortfiisoItncae,u"lxaMnedStmdC.ersyInsSstuatb.l,s"tanPcheisl.  Trans. 1802.
                                                                                                                                                                 organisees," Mem.
t

X
§

Jnst. 1811.
                    REPORT ON PHYSICAL OPTICS.                        377

M. Biot made the important discovery that in many crystals
the extraordinary index was greater than the ordinary, and the
extraordinary ray therefore refracted towards the axis. Cry
stals of the latter kind he called attractive, while those of the

former were called repulsive ; the extraordinary refraction being
ascribed, in the theoryof emission, to attractive or repulsive forces

which act as if they emanated from the axis*. These crystals

are now generally distinguished by the denominations positive
and negative. The Huygenian law applies to positive as well as
to negative crystals ; the spheroid being prolate in the former
case and oblate in the latter.

The construction given by Huygens for the direction of the
two refracted rays is, it
quence of the assumed           has   been stated, an immediate conse
                                form
                                       of the wave-surface. It easily
appears, from the principle of Huygens already adverted to,
that the same construction will apply in all cases, whatever be
the form of the wave or the law of the velocity of propagation
within the crystal ; -- so that the law of direction is determined

when that of velocity is known. A similar connexion between
the velocity of the molecule and its path is established, in
the theory of emission, by the law of least action. This
principle, we know, holds generally in the motion of a point
subjected to the action of attracting or repelling forces ; and in
applying it to the case of a luminous molecule acted on by
forces emanating from the particles of the body which it meets,
we may leave out of consideration the insensible curvilinear por
tion  of the trajectory described in
into  another of different density,             t--hepproavsisdaegde  from one medium
                                                                      we assume, with

Newton, that the forces exerted by the molecules of body on
those of light are sensible only at insensible distances. In this
simplification of the problem we have to deal only with straight
lines and uniform velocities ; and when the dependence of these
velocities on the directions is assumed or given, the principle in
question furnishes a relation between the directions of the two
portions of the trajectory. Such was the problem whose solu
tion was given by Laplace, in his memoir on the motion of light

fin transparent media ; and he has arrived at two equations, in
which that solution   cisasecsom; --pleotneely      contained.         Laplace applied
these results to two                            in   which the        difference of the

squares    of  the  velocities  of the incident and refracted rays is
constant,  --  and  the other   in which that difference is equal to a

constant quantity, plus another varying as the square of the
cosine of the inclination of the refracted ray to the optic axis.

In the former of these cases he obtained the known law of

           · Mem. Inti. 1811.                       t Ibid. 1809.
378 FOURTH REPORT -- 1834.

Snellius ; and the formulae of refraction to which he arrived

in the latter were found to be identical with those furnished by
the construction of Huygens.
The velocity of the extraordinary ray, assumed by Laplace, is
the reciprocal of the radius-vector of the ellipsoid of Huygens,
and therefore the inverse of the assumed velocity in the wave-
theory. But Laplace himself has shown that the construction
suggested by that theory, and employed by Huygens for the
determination of the     direction  toimf et,h--e             ray, resolves it
self into the principle  of least                  refracted  whatever be the
                                                   and that

form of the wave-surface ; and as the law of least action and

that of least time are identical, provided the assumed velocities
be reciprocal, it ceases to be strange that two such very different
methods should lead precisely to the same result. The difference
between Huygens and Laplace, as to the mode of deducing the
law of extraordinary refraction, is in fact precisely the same as
that which existed formerly between Fermat and Maupertuis
with regard to the ordinary law of the sines.
   This identity of the results afforded by the two theories has

since been more distinctly pointed out by M. Ampere. By means
of the principle of least action he has arrived at the following
general conclusion, whatever be the assumed law of the veloci

ties, -- that if from the point of incidence on any extraordinary
medium, as centre, two surfaces be described whose radii-vec-

tores are inversely as the velocities of the incident and refracted

rays in their directions j and if the incident and refracted rays

be produced to meet these surfaces, and tangent planes be

drawn at the points of meeting, the line of intersection of these
planes will be on the separating surface of the two media*.
Hence the position of the refracted ray is determined when that
of the incident ray is known ; and the construction thus sup
plied for its determination is obviously the generalization of the

construction of Huygens already alluded to, if only the radii-
vectores be taken in the direct ratio of the velocities, instead of

the inverse.

   It is obvious, then, that the problem of double refraction, con

sidered as a physical question, resolves itself into the determina
tion of the law of velocities. Newton showed that the constant
ratio of the velocities in ordinary media, and therefore the law
of the sines, could be explained on the supposition that the lu
minous molecules are solicited by attracting forces emanating
from the molecules of the refracting body, and sensible only at
very small distances. The phenomenon of extraordinary re
fraction, in like manner, was ascribed by Laplace to the operation

                         · Mem. Inst. 1815.
REPORT ON PHYSICAL OPTICS.  379

 of similar forces emanating from the molecules of the crystal ;
but modified by the form of these molecules and those of light,
and by the manner in which they are presented to each other.
No attempt, however, has been made in the theory of emission to
advance beyond the point to which Newton arrived, and to de
duce the velocity of the extraordinary ray in crystallized media
from any assumed constitution of the molecular forces* ; and,
indeed, when the condition of polarity is to be superadded to
the laws of such forces, the theory seems embarrassed in
inextricable difficulties. The refraction which a polarized ray
undergoes in a crystal depends upon its plane of polarization,
and, by a simple change of that plane, the refracted ray may be
converted from an extraordinary to an ordinary ray. The extra
ordinary force then, it appears from the phenomena, exerts no
effect upon a ray polarized parallel to the principal plane ; its
effect is greatest upon a ray polarized in the perpendicular plane ;
and it must be supposed to act in every intermediate degree
upon rays polarized in intermediate planes. Now a ray of com
mon light, in the theory of emission, is composed of molecules
whose planes of polarization are turned in all azimuths ; and
these molecules, consequently, should feel the influence of the
extraordinary force in every possible degree. Instead, therefore,
of two refracted rays, such a ray should be divided into an infinite
number, inclined in every possible angle between the limiting

dirIetcthioandsboeef nthheitohredritnoarayssaunmdede,xttrhaaotrdnionacryrysrataysl . had more than

one optic axis. While examining the rings which surround
these axes in polarized light, Sir David Brewster made the im
portant discovery that the greater number of crystals possess
two optic axes ; and he soon after discovered the connexion be
tween these diversities of optical character and the crystalline

formf.
   The optic axes, however, as Sir David Brewster has shown,

cannot be regarded in general as the fundamental axes of the
double-refracting medium. He calls them apparent axes; and
considers them as the resultants of others, which he denominates

    · Fresnel states, in the commencement of his memoir on double refraction,
that Laplace had derived the velocity of the extraordinary ray, in uniaxal cry-
stab, from the hypothesis of a resultant force acting in a direction perpendicular
to the optic axis, and varying as the square of the sine of the angle which the
ray makes with that line. I have not been able to discover, in any of La

tplace's writings, the discussion thus adverted to.
       The important relations here alluded to have been already brought under
the attention of the Association, in the able Report on Mineralogy, by Mr. Who-
well.
380 FOURTH REPORT -- 1834.

true or polarizing axes, and from which the forces which pro
duce the phenomena of polarization and double refraction are
conceived to emanate. The polarizing force proceeding from a
single axis, is measured by the difference of the squares of the
velocities of the ordinary and extraordinary rays, and is supposed
to vary as the square of the sine of the angle which the direction
of the ray within the crystal contains with it ; and when two
such axes cooperate, it is assumed that the increment of the
square of the velocity, arising from their joint action, is equal to
the diagonal of a parallelogram whose sides are the increments
of the square of the velocity produced by each separately, and
whose angle is double of that formed by the two planes passing
through the ray and the axes*. From this hypothesis it followed
that two rectangular polarizing axes of equal intensity, and both
positive or both negative, compound a single resultant axis at
right angles to both. This axis is of the same intensity as the
component axes, but of an opposite character ; and, accordingly,
three equal rectangular axes of the same character balance each
other's effects, and have no resultant. Thus, then, the laws of
uniaxal crystals, as well as of singly-refracting media, are em
braced in this hypothesis. The case of two resultant axes is
reducible to that of two unequal polarizing axes ; and it has been
shown to be a consequence of the rule that the difference of the
squares of the velocities of the ordinary and extraordinary rays
within the crystal, is proportional to the product of the sines of
the angles which the latter makes with the resultant axes.
M. Biot was led to the discovery of this beautiful law by ana-
logyf, and he afterwards observed that it was implicitlycontained
in          ltaewrmpro"popsoeldarizbiyngSirfoDrcaev"idseBermeswsttoerh.ave
    the
    The                                                                     been  adopted  by
Sir David Brewster
                                  without any reference to                  ptheencillas,w--wahliacwh
governed the planes               of polarization of the two
which, in biaxal crystals, still remained unknown. In the case
of uniaxal crystals, it could not fail to be observed, the plane of
polarization of one of the pencils contained the direction of the
ray and the axis ; while that of the other was a plane passing
through the ray at right angles to the former. Conceiving that
these planes, in biaxal crystals, must be symmetrically placed
with respect to thejdanes                                                           the    two
axes, M. Biot was led to          pthaessisnimg pltehroaungdheltehgeanrtaylaawn--d  that   the

plane of polarization of one of the pencils was that passing

· " On the laws of Polarization and Double Refraction in regularly crystallized
Botdie"sM,"emPhoiilr.e  Trans.
                         sur les  1818.           de la Double Refraction, &c," Mtm. Irut.,
                                  Lois generates
torn. iii.
        REPORT ON PHYSICAL OPTICS.                                                   381

through the ray, and bisecting the dihedral angle contained by
these planes ; while that of the other was perpendicular to the
former, or bisected the supplemental dihedral angle*.

   When a ray of light enters a crystal, the component molecules
are supposed, in the theory of M. Biot, to receive different mo
tions round their centres of gravity, dependent on the nature of
the forces exerted upon them by the particles of the body.
Sometimes the molecules of the ray are turned by the operation
of these forces, so as to have certain lines in each, denominated
axes of polarization, all in the same direction ; and this arrange
ment of the molecules is maintained throughout the whole of
their future progress. There are other cases, however, according
to this author, in which the molecules oscillate round their cen

tres of gravity in certain periods, during their entire progress
                         ; while    in others,
through the crystal      rotation.     To the   twfinoalllayt,tetrhecyasersecIeivsehalal
motion of continued

have occasion to advert hereafter.
The phenomena of fixed polarization are ascribed by M. Biot
to the operation of certain forces, which he denominates polariz
ing forces. In the case of uniaxal crystals these forces are sup
        to act in the    planes containing the two rays and                  the axis
posed   crystal, -- the  ordinary polarizing force tending to                arrange
of the

the axes of the molecules in the plane containing the ray and
the axis, while the extraordinary
towards the perpendicular plane.             pIoflathriezinmg olfeocruclees  draws   them
                                                                               were  simi

larly circumstanced in every respect, they would necessarily obey
the stronger of these forces, and there would be but one plane
of polarization. This, however, is supposed not to be the case.
Owing to the different phases of their fits, at their incidence upon

the crystal, the molecules are disposed to yield more readily to
one or other of these forces ; so that when a polarized ray meets
a double refracting medium, some of the molecules fall under
the influence of the ordinary polarizing force, and have their
axes of polarization turned into the plane containing the ray and
the axis of the crystal, while others are actuated by the extra
ordinary force, and have their axes arranged in the perpendicular
plane. The number of molecules which yield to one or other
of these forces, or the intensity of the two polarized rays, is
supposed to depend on the angle which the plane of primitive
polarization makes with the two planes just mentioned. When
the plane of polarization coincides with the former, the extra

ordinary force has no effect, and the ray receives only the ordi
nary polarization ; the converse takes place when the plane of
polarization coincides with the perpendicular plane. Similar

                                    · Ibid.
382  FOURTH REPORT 1834.

suppositions were made to account for the phenomena of polari
zation in biaxal crystals.
   Such was the state of the theory of double refraction when the
subject was taken up by Fresnel. The law of refraction, we
have seen, whether in the theory of emission or in that of waves,
was intimately connected with and dependent on the law of ve

locities ; so that, considered as a physical question, the problem
resolved itself into the determination of the latter. With the
exception, however, of the reasonings of Young respecting the
form of the wave-surface in a medium compressed or dilated in
a given direction*, no attempt had been made to deduce the
velocity of the extraordinary ray from the principles of either
theory. Indeed, the general law of the velocities was itself un
known, even as an experimental fact, although an important
relation between the velocities of the two pencils had been dis

covered by the labours of Sir David Brewster and M. Biot. But
this was not all. It was evident that no physical theory of double
refraction could be regarded as complete, which did not at the
same time account for the attendant phenomenon of polar izat ion.
In this branch of the subject, however, nothing had been accom
plished ; and all that had been said in explanation of the pheno
menon of polarization did              gthoeofuryrthoefrFrtheasnnelsotmo ewvhaicghueI
culations as to its cause.        not                                                  spe
                                  The                                                  now
proceed, -- and which not only embraces all the known pheno

     has even outstripped
     which were afterwards
Imena, but                                                                             con
                                                                                       per
sequences
                                       observation, and      predicted

                                        fully verified, --   will, am

suaded, be regarded as the finest generalization in physical science
fwhich has been made since the discovery of universal gravitation.
   Fresnel sets out from the supposition that the elastic force
of the vibrating medium is, in general, different in different
directions. This is, in fact, the most general supposition

that can be made ; and whether we suppose that the vibrating
medium is the ether within the crystal, or that the molecules
of the body itself partake of the vibratory movement, there
will be obviously such a connexion and mutual dependence
of the parts of the solid and those of the medium in question,
that we cannot hesitate to admit for the one what has been al
ready established on the clearest evidence for the other J. Now
if a disturbance be produced in a medium so constituted, and

*  "QuMaSrtmeorliyreRseuvrielwa ,Dvooul.bliei. Refraction,"  Mem. Inst., torn. vii.

t
   X M. Savart has shown that the elasticity of crystals, determined by means
of their sonorous vibrations, in general, different in different directions. The
     is
          is,

                                                               :

                                                                                     is
optic axis of Iceland spar the axis of least elasticity that of rock crystal
the axis of greatest elasticity.
                  RKPORT ON PHYSICAL OPTICS.                                       883

any particle displaced from its position of rest, the resultant of
the elastic forces which resist the displacement will not, in
general, act in the direction of that displacement (as in the case
of a medium uniformly elastic), and therefore will not drive the
displaced particle directly back to its position of equilibrium.
Fresnel has shown, however, that there are three directions at

right angles to each other, in any of which, if the particles are
displaced, the elastic forces do act in the direction of the dis
            whatever be the nature or laws of the molecular ac
placement   the only assumption which he makes is -- that these
tion ; and
three directions are parallel all throughout the crystal*. These
directions Fresnel denominates axes of elasticity . He conceives
that they ought also to be axes of symmetry with respect to the
crystalline form  ;wbhuicthobthseisrvdeosesthnaottMh.olMdift.schIefrloicnheahcahs  noticed
some crystals in                                                                   of these

axes, and on every line diverging from the same origin, portions
be taken which are as the square roots of the elastic forces in
their direction, the locus of the extremities of these portions will
be a surface which Fresnel calls the surface of elasticity. This

surface determines the velocity of propagation of the wave, when
the direction of its vibrations is given. For the velocity of un-
dulatory propagation in an elastic medium, being as the square
root of the elastic force, must be represented by the radius-vector
of the surface of elasticity in the direction of the vibrations.
Now let us conceive a plane wave advancing within the crystal.
By the principle of transversal vibrations the movements of the
ethereal molecules are all parallel to the wave. But the motion
of each displaced particle is resisted by the elastic force of the
medium, and that force is, in general, oblique to the direction of
the displacement. Fresnel shows, however, that the displace
ment may be resolved in two directions in the plane of the wave,
such that the elastic force called into action by each component
will be the resultant of two forces, one of which acts in the di

rection of the displacement itself, while the other is normal to
the wave. The latter, by the principle of transversal vibrations,
can produce no effect ; and the former will give rise to a wave
propagated with a constant velocity. These two directions, he

   · This will be the case, if the homologous lines of the groups of particles are

all parallel; an arrangement at once the simplest and most natural, and which
appears to be observed in most crystallized bodies. Fresnel admits, however,
the possibility of other regular arrangements ; and he conceives that the pheno
mena of circular polarization in rock crystal oblige us to suppose that its mole
cules are arranged according to some less simple law.

    t. See Bulletin de la Soctite Philomathique, March 1824.
384 FOURTH REPORT -- 1834.

finds, are those of the greatest and least diameters of the section
of the surface of elasticity made by the plane of the wave ; and

if the original displacement be resolved into two, parallel to them,
each component will give rise to a plane wave whose velocity of
propagation is represented by that diameter, and the vibrations
in each wave will preserve constantly the same direction.

   Thus it appears that a polarized plane wave will be resolved
into two within the crystal ; and these will be propagated with
different velocities, and consequently follow different paths. The
amplitudes of the component vibrations are as the cosines of the
angles which the direction of the original vibration contains with
the two fixed rectangular directions ; and, as the squares of these
amplitudes represent the intensities of the two pencils, the law
of Malus respecting these intensities follows as an immediate
consequence*. Again, the planes perpendicular to these two
directions are the planes of polarization of the two pencils.
And it is easily inferred that one of them must bisect the dihedral
angle contained by the two planes passing through the normal
to the wave, and the normals to the circular sections of the sur
face of elasticity ; while the other is perpendicular to it. This
conclusion does not coincide mathematically with the experi

mental law of M. Biot : but the differences are much within
the limits of the errors of observation, and the results of expe
riment must be regarded as confirmatory of the theory.
The velocity of propagation of a plane wave in any direction
       known,        form of the        bwe afvoeu-nsdu.rfacFeordiivferwgeincgonfcroeimve
being  within   the  crystal may                                                           any
point          the                                                                           an

indefinite number of plane waves, which, at the commencement
of the time, all pass through the point which is considered as the
centre of disturbance, the wave-surface will be that touched by
all these planes at any instant. This surface is of the fourth
order. Fresnel has deduced its equation, although in an indirect
manner ; and he has shown that it may be geometrically con
structed by means of an ellipsoid whose semiaxes are the same
as those of the surface of elasticity. The form of the wave-
surface being known, the directions of the two refracted rays are
given by the construction of Huygens.

* Young seems to have been the first to observe that the law of the square
of the cosine could be derived from the hypothesis of transversal vibrations,
(Ency. Brit. Chromatics, p. 161.) The subject of the experimental confirma
tion of this important law has been recently brought before the French Academy
by M. Arago,                                            results which
from this law  and   he has indicated   the practical  -- Herschel's    may   be   derived  :
               in   its application to  photometry.                    Essay   on  Light

French Translation, Suppl., p. 590.
               REPORT ON PHYSICAL OPTICS.  385

   From   otdhfiertehcceotinoesnlltisrp,us--cotitidoh,ne--nnionorwmwahalslil,cuhdentdahmeteovlyei,ltoctaoitpyptheoeafrstthwetohtawctiorcthuraelayresr
are two

sections

is the same. These directions are called by Fresnel the optic
ares ;. although he sometimes applies this term to the normals
to the circular sections of the surface of elasticity, or the direc
                               is propagated with a single velocity.
tions in which a plane wave    have in general two optic axes, and

It thus appears that crystals
can have no more. When two of the three principal elasticities

are equal, the two optic axes unite, and the wave-surface re
solves itself into the sphere and spheroid of revolution. Thus
the form of the wave in uniaxal crystals, which Huygens assumed
as the most natural, comes out as a simple corollary from the
general theory of Fresnel. When, lastly, the three elasticities
are all equal, the wave- surface becomes a sphere ; the velocity
is accordingly the same in all directions, and the law of refrac
tion is reduced to the known law of Snellius.

   It was easily shown to follow from the general construction,
that the difference of the squares of the reciprocal velocities of
the two rays, in biaxal crystals, is proportional to the product
of the sines of the angles which their common direction within
the crystal contains with the two axes ; so that the remarkable
law of Sir David Brewster and M. Biot is brought under the
same theory. But it appeared further, from that theory, that the
velocity of neither of the rays is constant, and that the refraction
of both is performed according to a new law. This conclusion
was at variance with all the received notions upon the subject ;

and indeed the experiments of M. Biot on limpid topaz* seemed
to warrant his assumption that the refraction of one of the rays

followed the ordinary law of the sines. It became, therefore, a
matter of much interest to decide this question by accurate ex
periment. This has been done by Fresnel himself by the ordi
nary method of prismatic refraction, as well as by the nicer
means afforded by the displacement of the diffracted fringes ;
and the result in both cases has been conclusive in favour of his
theory. The numerical data afforded by the observations of
M. Biot on topaz enabled Fresnel to compute, according to the
principles of that theory, the velocity of the ray in different
directions ; and the observed variation was found to agree with

that deduced.

The phenomenon of dispersion, in singly- refracting substances,
proves that the elasticity of the vibrating medium varies with
the length of the wave. The same thing must take place in

1834.          · Mim. Inst., torn. iii.
                             2c
386 FOURTII REPORT -- 1834.

double-refracting media, in which the elasticity is different in dif
ferent directions ; and as we have no reason for supposing that the
elasticities should vary in the   same proportion in the direction of
the three axes of elasticity, it
                                  will follow that in general each re
fractive index will have its appropriate dispersive ratio. Sir
David Brewster first showed that this was actually the case, and
that Iceland spar and other double-refracting substances had two
dispersive powers*. M. Rudberg has recently examined the
laws of dispersion in double- refracting media with much care,
following the accurate method of Fraunhofer. He has in this
manner determined the greatest and least refractive index cor
responding to the seven principal dark lines of the spectrum in
Iceland spar and rock crystal, and the three principal indices in
arragonite and topaz ; and has found, in accordance with the
discovery of Sir David Brewster, that the ratio of these indices

increased with the refrangibility of the light f. The experiments
of M. Rudberg confirm also the fundamental position of Fresnel's
theory, namely, that the velocity of a ray in a given medium is
the same as long as its plane of polarization is unchanged.
The angle contained by the optic axes, in biaxal crystals, is a
simple function of the three principal elasticities ; and if their
ratio vary with the colour of the light, the inclination of the axes
must likewise vary. Such a variation has been established by
the observations of Sir John Herschel ; and it has been found

that the inclination of the axes is greater in red than in violet light
for some crystals, while in others it is less J. In the case of Ro-
chelle salt, the angle between the optic axes of the red and violet
rays amounts to 10°. Generally the position of the three axes
of elasticity is invariable, and the optic axes for all colours are
confined to one plane ; but Sir John Herschel has lately observed,
that in borax the optic axes belonging to different colours lie in
different planes; and we are compelled to conclude that the
direction of the axes of elasticity in this, and probably in many
other crystals, varies with the colour.
   The first addition to the theory of Fresnel was made by

* Treatise on New Philosophical Instruments, Edin. 1813.
t Annates de Chimie, torn, xlviii. For the calculation of the phenomena of
double refraction in biaxal crystals, according to Fresnel's theory, it is necessary
to know the three principal refractive indices, or the velocities of propagation of
rays whose vibrations are parallel to the three axes of elasticity. Beside the
researches of   M. Rudberg, I do not know that  Iwteispotrsuseessthaantyifotwheer  in which
all these data  have been directly determined.                                     know the

greatest and least index, and the angle contained by the optic axes, the mean
index can be deduced. But the inclination of the optic axes cannot be deter
mined experimentally with the same precision as the other elements.
t Phil. Trans. 1820.
                            REPORT ON PHYSICAL OPTICS.                           387

M. Ampere. The results alluded to are contained in two short

papers read to the French Academy in the year 1 828, and since

embodied into one, and published in the Annates de Chimie*.

Fresnel had arrived at the equation which belongs to all the
tangent planes of the wave-surface, and had shown in what man
ner the equation of the surface itself might be thence deduced
by differentiation and elimination. This direct process, how
ever, he seemed to think would involve complicated and embar
rassing calculations. The method which he substituted for it
consisted in verifying the equation, to which he was led by rea
sonings not altogether rigorous, and proving (by calculations
which he found too tedious to transcribe), that it satisfied the
conditions already assigned. M. Ampere has supplied the direct
demonstration, and deduced the equation of the wave-surface in
the manner originally pointed out by Fresnel. From this equa
tion he has derived also the beautiful geometrical construction
                Fresnel,    and which the latter
givAen    by     concise    demonstration of the  had obtained indirectly.
         very                                     same theorem, and of the
other principal points of Fresnel's theory, was given not long
after by Mr. M'Cullaght- This writer has shown that both the
magnitude and direction of the resultant elastic force, called into
action by any displacement, may be represented by means of an
ellipsoid whose semiaxes are the three principal refractive in
dices of the medium ; and from this ellipsoid, by the aid of a
few geometrical lemmas, he has deduced in a clear and simple
manner the leading results arrived at by Fresnel. The axes
of this ellipsoid coincide in direction with, and are inversely
proportional to, the axes of Fresnel's generating ellipsoid ; and
Mr. M'Cullagh has demonstrated the truth of Fresnel's construc
tion for the wave-surface, by means of a simple geometrical
relation between its tangent planes and the sections of the two

elliIpnsotihdes. third supplement to his " Essay on the Theory of

Systems of Ruys%," Professor Hamilton has presented that
portion of Fresnel's theory, which relates to the fundamental
problem of the determination of the velocity and polarization of
a plane wave, in a very elegant analytical form ; and from the

· " M6moire sur la Determination de la Surface courbe des Ondes lumineuses,"
         torn,
&c.,            xxxix.      Refraction  of Light  in a crystallized  medium  according to
         " On   the Double
     ·f
the principles of Fresnel," Tratuaclions of the Royal Irish Academy, vol. xvi.
A further development of    the   principles of   this memoir has been recently  "gGiveeon
by the author in the 17th   vol.  of the same     Transactions, under the title

metrical Propositions applied to the Wave-theory of Light."
2c2X Transactions of the Royal Irish Academy', vol. xvii.
38S .· FOURTH REPORT -- 1834.

velocity and direction of the wave he deduces those of the ray,
and therefore the form of the wave- surface, by means of the
genIneratl hriselastiyosntsems,ugogfeswtehdicbhy  his  view of
                                                  the   author  mathematical optics.
                                                                 gave a brief sketch
at the late meeting of the Association, the laws of reflexion
and refraction, ordinary or extraordinary, are comprised in
two fundamental expressions, which state that the
ferential coefficients of the first order of a certain                 fpuanrctitaiol nd, --if

taken with respect to two final coordinates in the plane which
               reflecting or refracting                                point of inci
touches the    not altered by reflexion                surface at the  The function
                                                       or refraction.
dence, -- are

here considered is the characteristic function of the author,
whose particular form may be considered as characterizing the
optical system, and on whose properties, he finds, all the pro
blems of mathematical optics may be made to depend. On the
principles of the wave-theory, this function is equal to the undu-
latory time of propagation of light, from any one assumed point
to another, in the same or in a different medium; and the ex
pressions just alluded to, signify simply that the components of
normal slowness of the wave parallel to the bounding surface,
or the reciprocal of the velocity of wave-propagation resolved in
the direction of that surface, are not changed by reflexion or
refraction. The normal slowness of wave-propagation is, then,
of fundamental importance in this theory ; and if it be repre
sented in magnitude by a line taken in its direction, there is
obtained for its expression a curved surface which, on the prin
ciples of Fresnel, is found to be a surface of two sheets, connected
with the wave-surface by a remarkable relation of reciprocity.
When this relation is combined with the laws of reflexion and

refraction just alluded to, they lead to a very elegant construc
tion for the reflected or refracted ray which is, in most cases,
more convenient than that of Huygens. Thus, when a ray pro
ceeds from air into any crystal, we have only to construct the
surfaces of wave-slowness belonging to the two media, and having
their common centre at the point of incidence. Let the incident
ray be then produced to meet the sphere, which represents the
normal slowness of the wave in air ; and from the point of in

tersection let a perpendicular be drawn to the reflecting or refract

ing surface. This will cut the surface of slowness of the reflected
or refracted waves in general in two points. The lines connect
ing these points with the centre, will represent the direction and
normal slowness of the waves ; while the perpendiculars from
the centre on the tangent planes at the same points, will repre
sent the direction and slowness of the rays themselves.

   This important curved surface presented itself also to M. Cau-
           REPOItT ON PHYSICAL OPTICS.               .389

chy in his able researches on the propagation of waves in elastic
media, although he does not seem to have been aware of all its
properties. The properties of the same surface, and its use in
constructing the direction of a reflected or a refracted ray, were
also discovered, independently, by Mr. M'Cullagh, who has re
cently applied them to the geometrical development of the theory
of double refraction*.

   The relations between the surface of wave-slowness and that
of the wave have led Professor Hamilton to the discovery of
some new geometrical properties of the latter. These properties
are demonstrated by means of certain transformations of the
equation of the wave-surface ; and it is shown that this surface
has four conuidal ciisps, at the extremities of the lines of single
ray-velocity, at each of which the wave is touched, not by two
planes as Fresnel supposed, hut hy an infinite number forming
a tangent cone of the second degree ; while, at the extremities
of the lines of single wave-velocity, there are/o«r circles of plane
contact, in every point of each of which the wave-surface is
touched by a single plane. These singular properties have led
Professor Hamilton to anticipate two new laws of refraction--
called by him conical refraction, because in each case a single
ray is refracted into an infinite number forming a species of cone.
External conical refraction corresponds to the cusp on the wave-
surface ; and takes place without, when a single internal ray
coincides with either of the lines of single ray- velocity. Internal
conical refraction, on the other hand, takes place within the
crystal, when a single ray is incident externally at an angle cor
responding to the line of single wave-velocity within. In this

latter case, if the crystal be bounded by parallel planes, all the
rays of the cone will emerge at the second surface parallel to the

ray incident on the first, so as to form a small elliptic cylinder,
whose magnitude will depend upon the angle of the cone and

the thickness of the crystal. All these remarkable conclusions

Ihave been verified in the fullest manner by experiment f.

       shall now proceed to give a brief account of the labours
of M. Cauchy in this interesting department of analysis. The
researches of this eminent mathematician, on the propaga
tion of motion in elastic media, are scattered through various
livraisons of the Exercices de Mathematiques ; and he has
given a valuable summary of the results of these investigations,

· " Geometrical Propositions applied to the Wave-theory of Light," Trans
           of the Royal Irish Academy,        xvii.
acttion"s  On the Phenomena presented   vol.  Light  in its passage along the axes of
biaxal Crystals," Ibid.                  by
.1£X) KOl/KTH HEl'OKT 1834.

as applied to the wave-theory of light, in a memoir read to the
French Academy in the year 1830 *.
Having assigned the general equations of motion of a system
of molecules, acting on one another by attracting or repelling
forces which vary according to any function of the distance,
M. Cauchy observes that it is not necessary to have recourse to
their                                  in order to determine the laws of           undula-
tory   pgreonpearaglatiniotne.graIlts  is sufficient, in fact, to determine        the law
of propagation of a plane wave. For if we consider a great
number of plane waves inclined to one another at small angles,
and which are at first superposed in the neighbourhood of the
point which is considered as the origin of the disturbance, the
vibrations in the elementary waves, to which each of these gives
rise, may be supposed too small to affect the sense separately,
and these waves become efficacious only by superposition. Con
sequently the general wave-surface will be the locus of all the
points in which the elementary plane waves are superposed ; and
will therefore be the surface touched by them all at any instantf .
Hence the problem is reduced to the determination of the law
of propagation of a plane wave.
   M. Cauchy then shows that a disturbance, confined originally
to a given plane, will in general give rise to three pairs of plane
                                                                                    with uni
waves parallel    --to ththeetwoorigwinaavel sploafnee,acahndpapirrompaogvaitnegd  with equal
form velocities,

velocities in opposite directions. The velocities of propagation
of the separate pairs, he proves, may be represented by the re
ciprocals of the axes of a certain ellipsoid, whose form depends
upon the position of the plane wave and upon the nature of the
system ; and the absolute displacements of the molecules will be
parallel to the directions of these axes. Accordingly, a system
of plane waves, superposed at first at the point of original dis
turbance, will be subdivided into three corresponding systems ;
and these, by their superposition, will generate a curved surface
of three sheets, each sheet being touched by all the plane waves
of the same system. From these principles it follows that a
single ray of light will be, in general, subdivided into three po
larized rays ; -- a ray being said, in this theory, to be polarized
parallel to a certain line or plane, when the vibrations of the
ethereal molecules are parallel to that line or plane. M. Cauchy

  t· " Memoire sur la Thfioric de la Lumiere," Mini. Inst., tom. x.

       M. Poisson docs not admit the legitimacy of this conception of the wave-
Mirfnce; and he thinks that an assemblage of indefinite plane waves, having a
mall part in common at the origin of the motion, cannot represent the initial
condition of a medium disturbed at that point.
           REPORT ON PHYSICAL OPTICS.                                     391

does not    state the precise physical    condition on which the
existence  of the third ray depends.
                                         It would seem, however,
that it must arise from the circumstance that the vibration

normal to the wave is not absolutely insensible, or that the
actual vibrations are not accurately in the plane of the wave.
He states that the intensity of this ray will be in all cases very
small, and that its observation therefore will be a matter of dif

ficulty ; but he promises in a future communication to point out
the means of manifesting its existence.
The formulae, on which the solution of the general problem
depends, may be reduced to contain nine constant coefficients
depending on the law of distribution of the molecules in space.
Three of them represent the pressures sustained in the natural
condition of the medium by any three planes parallel to those of

the three coordinates; and these, M. Cauchy afterwards con
cludes, vanish of themselves. When the general theory is applied
to the case in which the elasticity is the same in all directions
round any line parallel to one of the axes of coordinates,

M. Cauchy finds that the nine coefficients are reduced to five ;
and that two sheets of the wave-surface become the sphere and
spheroid of the Huygenian law, provided that the remaining
constants fulfill two assigned equations of condition. In the
general case, in which the elasticity is unequal in all directions,
he investigates the sections of
        of the three coordinates      the wave-surface  thamt,a--defobry  the
planes  of that surface, -- they are  ; and he finds                      two
sheets
                                      reduced to the circle and ellipse
of Fresnel's theory, provided that the constants fulfill three
assigned equations of condition. The wave-surface itself differs
a little from the surface of the fourth order obtained by Fresnel ;
but is reducible to it when the execntricities of the ellipses just
mentioned arc small, as is the case in all known crystals.
Thus the results obtained by M. Cauchy embrace and confirm
those of Fresnel ; and the mathematical laws of the propagation
of light are shown to be particular cases of the more general laws
of the propagation of vibratory motion in any elastic medium
composed of attracting and repelling molecules. Considered,
                  with reference to               of  light, the  solu
however, simply                       the theory  be  considered    as a
                  Cauchy cannot, I     conceive,
tion given by M.
complete physical solution. In other words, the phenomena of
light are not connected directly with any given physical hypo
thesis ; but are shown to be comprehended in the results of the
general theory, in virtue of certain assumed relations among

the constants which that theory involves. If, indeed, we were
able to assign the precise physical meaning of these equations
of condition, we should have nothing more to desire in the
392 FOURTH REPORT -- 1834.

general theory of light ; for these equations must necessarily
express the characteristic properties of the vibrating medium.
In this point of view their discussion becomes a subject of the
highest interest ; and it is probable that the important conclu
sions of which we have yet to speak may in this manner be

confirmed and extended.

   These conclusions are contained in a memoir presented to the

French Academy by M. Lain6, in the spring of the present
            and in which the author has proposed to determine the
?lraewasr*a;ccording to which the molecules of bodies act on those of
the ether, and the molecules of the ether on one another. Set

ting out from the existence of transversal vibrations, as esta
blished by the fact of the non-interference of rays oppositely
                                                        a disturbance of the ether to take
pploalcaeriziendv, atchueumau,th--orthsaut ppiso,seins  a space devoid of all ponderable
matter, -- and proceeds to consider what will be the result when
that disturbance reaches the ether contained in a transparent
                                                        of transversal    Pvoiibsrsaotnio, n--s
body. Assuming the property                             stated by M.                             noticed
by Fresnel, and more explicitly                                                                  namely,
tdheantsittyh,e--y   are propagated without               any attendant
                                                        conditions to be            change       of
                    M. Lame* then seeks the                                        satisfied
                                                                                                 by
the function, which represents the mutual action of the mole
cules of the ether and those of the solid body, in order that this

property may subsist. Introducing, accordingly, this principle
into the partial differential equations, which express the laws of

the vibratory movement   generally,                     he arrives        finally  "atthaen      equa
tion of condition, from  which he                       concludes,         that                  action

of ponderable matter on the ether varies in the inverse ratio of
the square of the distance ; and that the elasticity of the ether
itself is proportional to its density."
   In order         to  adttertaecrtmivieneorthreepsuiglsniveo,f--thiist  action, -- that is to say,
whether it          is                                                    is necessary to integrate

the differential equations. After certain transformations of these

equations tending to facilitate their examination, he obtains
their integral in the case of a single spherical and homogeneous
molecule of the body, around which the ether is distributed in
           shells. The conclusions
spherical  with the established fact                    --detdhuactedthefrovmelotchiitsy  case being
combined                                                                                  of light is

less in transparent bodies than in vacuum, he arrives at the re
sult, that the mean density of the ether is less in the former ;
or that the action of the molecules of these bodies on those of

   * " Mcmoire sur les Lois de l'Equilibre de l'Ether dnns les Corps diaphanes."
A full account of this paper is giveu in the Annates de Chimie for March. The
memoir itself is not yet published.
                    REPORT ON PHYSICAL OPTICS.                  893

the ether is repulsive. M. Lame" concludes also from the exa
mination of the same case, that the retardation of the vibratory
motion, in penetrating into a dense body, will be greater, the less
the length of an undulation ; so that the refraction will be greater
for waves of shorter length. This he conceives to be the true
                    of the phenomenon of dispersion.
expMla.nLaatmioen'  has likewise endeavoured to connect    the  phenomena

of double refraction with an assumed constitution of the ethereal
fluid. He takes the case in which the ether is supposed to be
distributed round the molecules of the body in confocal ellip
soidal shells ; and he concludes that a vibratory movement,
propagated from vacuum into a body so constituted, will be se
parated at its entrance into two component movements, which
will advance with different velocities. The two component
vibrations, he finds, will be at right angles, and parallel to the
lines of greatest and least curvature of the elementary ellipsoids.
Thus, the bifurcation of a ray of light on entering a crystallized
medium, and the opposite polarization of the two pencils, are
found to be consistent with a molecular constitution such as that

described.

   These results are of the highest interest ; and will, no doubt,
receive an early examination from those engaged in the same
department of analysis. Their author seems to be persuaded
that his methods will lead him to the mathematical laws of other

phenomena, which he conceives to depend, in like manner, on
                    of the ethereal fluid*.
Ithe motions        close this division of   the  present  Report without
       cannot

referring to the phenomena of absorption by crystallized media,
although the laws of these phenomena are as yet wholly without
the pale of theory. Dr. Wollaston seems to have been the first
who noticed any facts connected with this interesting subject.
The absorbing properties of crystals were found to vary with
the direction ; certain crystals of palladium, for example, ap
pearing of a deep red colour when viewed along the axis, and of
a yellowish green in a transverse direction. Tourmalines were

fobserved also to possess analogous properties . Similar observa

   · In a continuation of this memoir, recently read to the French Academy,
M. Lam& has considered particularly the mode of vibration of the particles of

the ether which are disposed round the ponderable particles of body in concentric
spherical shells of decreasing density. Transparent homogeneous bodies are
supposed to consist of a multitude of such particles distributed uniformly in
space, and at distances incomparably greater than their diameters; and he
conceives that the waves propagated from the particles adjoining to the surface
of emergence will, by their interference, give rise to phenomena resembling the

ffixed lines in the spectrum. Ann. Chim., tom. lvii.
       Phil. Tram. 1804.
.j!M FOURTH RBFORT-- 1834.

tions were afterwards made by M. Cordier and the Count de
Bo union.
   The next step of any importance in this new field of research
was made by Sir David Brewster. This philosopher observed
that in some double-refracting crystals, as carbonate of barytes,
the two pencils were differently coloured* ; while in others their
intensity was widely different f . The unequal absorption of the
two pencils is most remarkable in tourmaline, in which it was

observed, nearly at the same time, by M. Biot and Dr. Seebeck ;
and the former philosopher inferred from the phenomena that
the more refrangible rays of the spectrum arc more easily ab
swohrebnedpebrypethnedimcuilnaerrlyalj,. when polarized parallel to its axis, than
   Sir David Brewster, to whom we owe the greater part of our
knowledge on this subject, has shown § that similar properties be
long, in a greater or less degree, to most coloured crystals which
possess double refraction ; and that the absorption of light by
such media varies, in general, both with the colour of the light
and with the position of the plane of polarization. When a ray
of common light therefore enters a plate of such a crystal, the
two  pencils into which it is           divided will
and  the emergent light will             be partially      bpeolaurnizeeqdual;l--y tahbesodribffeedr,

ence of the intensities of the oppositely polarized portions in
creasing with the thickness of the medium traversed. But the
two pencils differ, in general, in colour as well as in intensity ;
and this                   in   uinnicalxinaaltiocnrystoaflst,heSirrayDatovidtheBraexwiss,t--er
found to   difference,     the
           depend on
vanishing when the ray coincided with the axis, and becoming

a maximum when it was perpendicular to it. A ray of common
light, therefore, transmitted perpendicularly through a plate of
such a crystal, will emerge coloured ; and the resulting colour
will, in general, vary with the inclination of the surface to the
axis. Thus the phenomena of dichroism, observed by Wollas-
ton and others, are reduced to the more general laws of absorp
tion. Analogous properties belong to biaxal crystals, and de-
pt'utl in like manner on the planes of polarization of the two
pencils, or on the direction of the ray. These properties, Sir
David Brewster found, could be modified by heat ; and were
even communicated by such influences to crystals in which they
did not naturally reside.

· Edin. Trans., vol. vii.                      f Phil. Tram. 1814.
J  "TrOanitithdoe
                    Physique, tom. iv.  313.   Absorption  of l'olarized  Light by doublc-
{                  Luws which regulate    the
rciiacting CrytUdi," Phil. Tram. 1819.
REPORT ON PHYSICAL OPTICS.                                             395

   Notwithstanding the important labours of Sir David Brewster,
much remains to be done connected with this subject. Sir John
Herschel has proposed empirical formulae to represent the in
tensity of the transmitted light as dependent on its direction ;
and the results of the formulae present a general accordance

with observed facts*. It is much to be desired that these laws

should be placed beyond doubt by an extensive series of experi
ments directed to this specific object. Although the laws of
absorption by crystallized media are necessarily more compli
cated than those of ordinary media, yet they bear an evident
and close relation to the well-known laws of double-refraction,

which seems to hold out a clue to their discovery ; and I feel

persuaded that it is in the phenomena of dichroism that the
physical theory of absorption will first take its rise, and seek its
confirmation.

IV. Colours of Crystalline Plates.

If a beam of light, polarized by reflexion, be received upon
a second reflecting plate at the polarizing angle, it is wholly
transmitted when the second plane of incidence is perpendicular

to the first. But if between the polarizing and analysing
plates, as they are termed, there be interposed a plate of any
double-refracting crystal, a portion of the light is reflected,
whose quantity depends on the position of the interposed crystal.

In order to analyse the phenomenon, the crystalline plate may

be placed so as to receive  the polarized   beam perpendicularly,
and then turned round in    its own plane.
                                              It is then observed
that there are two positions of the plate in which the reflected

light totally disappears, just as if no crystal had been inter
posed. These two positions are those in which the principal
and the perpendicular sections of the crystal coincide with the
plane of the first reflexion. When the plate is turned round
from either of these positions, the light gradually increases ;
and it becomes a maximum when the principal section is in
clined at an angle of 45° to the plane of the first reflexion. These
phenomena were observed by Malus.
The reflected light in these experiments was in all cases
wishisteu.fficiBenuttlyM.thAinr,a--gosuocbhseravsedthtehalatmwinhaeen
sulphate of lime may be readily divided by                             the interposed plate

                                                                       icnletoavawghei,c--h thmeicma oostr
gorgeous colours appear, which vary with every change of incli

* Essay on Lt'jht, p. 554, &c.
396 FOURTH REPORT-- 1834.

nation of the plate to the polarized beam. When the plate is
perpendicular to the transmitted pencil, and then turned round
iinnteitnssoitwy,n--pblaenineg,  the tint does not change, but
                                 a maximum when the principal            only varies in
                                                                         section of the
crystal is inclined at an angle of 45° to the plane of primitive
polarization, and vanishing altogether when it coincides with
that plane, or is perpendicular to it. On the other hand, when
the crystal is fixed, and the analysing plate turned so as to
vary the inclination of the plane of the second reflexion to that
of the first, the colours change in the most striking manner ;
and it is found that the colour reflected, in any one position of
the plane of the second reflexion, is always complementary to
that reflected in the perpendicular position. The colours dis
appear altogether when the thickness of the crystalline plate is
reduced below a certain limit *.
                                                                                      >

   The experimental laws of these phenomena were investigated

with unwearied zeal by M. Biotf. When the light was inci
dent perpendicularly on plates of the same substance, of differ
ent thicknesses, the tints were observed to follow the same law

as the colours of thin plates ; the thicknesses of the crystal at
which each tint was developed in perfection being proportional
to the thicknesses of the plate of air which gave the same tint in
Newton's scale. These thicknesses vary with the nature of the

crystal ; and are always much greater than the corresponding
thicknesses of the uncrystallized plate which exhibit the same
tint. Pursuing the same inquiry, afterwards, for oblique inci
dences, M. Biot found that, in uniaxal crystals, the tint de
veloped was determined by the length of the path traversed by
the light within the crystal, and by the square of the sine of
the angle which its direction made with the optic axis, jointly.
From this law it followed, that if a crystalline plate of moderate
thickness be cut perpendicularly to the axis, and a converging
or diverging·   pencil transmitted through                               coaflleedq,u--al
tint,-- or the  isochromatic lines, as they are     the lines
                               a                 sometimes
                                                     is

                                                                 it,
                                                                      t
will be disposed in concentric circles similar to Newton's rings.
This phenomenon was observed, under different circumstances,
by Sir David Brewster, Dr. Wollaston, M. Biot, and M. See-

beck.
   The researches of M. Biot were followed by those of Sir
David Brewster. In investigating the law of the tints in biaxal
crystals, Sir David Brewster considers the optic axes as the re
sultants of others which he denominates polarizing axes. The
tint developed by single axis     taken as the measure of its

       Mhn. Jnsl. 1811.                                                  Ibid. 1812.
REPORT ON PHYSICAL OPTICS.  397

polarizing force, and is assumed to vary as the square of the
sine of the angle contained by the ray with it ; and when two
such axes cooperate, the tint resulting from their joint action is
measured by the diagonal of a parallelogram whose sides repre
sent the tints produced by each axis separately, and whose angle
is double the angle contained by the two planes passing through
them and the ray. This law Sir David Brewster has verified

by comparison with the observations of M. Biot on sulphate of

lime, and its agreement with phenomena was complete *. When

analytically developed by M. Biot, it was found to accord with

the beautiful law to which he was himself conducted by analogy ;
namely, that the tint is measured by the product of the sines of
the angles which the direction of the ray within the crystal

makes with the optic axes f. From this law it easily followed

that the isochromatic lines, in biaxal crystals, will be lemniscates,

whose poles are in the apparent direction of the optic axes J.

This phenomenon was first discovered by Sir David Brewster in
topaz. The law has been established in the most complete
manner by Sir John Herschel ; and he has found that the con
stant parameter, or the product of the radii-vectores drawn from
any point to the two poles, varies inversely as the thickness of
the plate, for different plates of the same substance, and increases
from one curve to another in the same plate, in the ratio of the
numbers of the natural series.

   To account for these varied phenomena in the hypothesis of
emission, M. Biot has imagined his ingenious and beautiful theory
of moveable polarization. When a polarized ray of any simple
colour enters a crystalline plate, the component molecules are
supposed, in this theory, to penetrate at first to a certain depth
without losing their primitive polarization ; and then to com
mence a series of regular oscillations round their centres of

   · " On the Laws of Polarization and Double Refraction in regularly crystal
lized Bodies," PAH. Tram. 1818.

  f From the researches of M. Biot it appeared that the measure of the tint,

in uniaxal crystals, observed the same law as that attributed to the difference
of the squares of the velocities of the two rays in the theory of emission. The
same relation was assumed to hold generally; and thus from the law of the tints
in biaxal crystals the relation of the velocities of the two pencils, noticed in
the preceding section, was inferred.

   X M. Biot has observed an apparent exception to this law in the diopsiile
of the Tyrol, in which the rings are in general unsymmetrical with respect to
the two axes. One of the axes presents the ordinary phenomena ; but in the
neighbourhood of the other there is a remarkable distortion of the rings near
their centre, when the crystalline plate is turned in its own plane. These dis
tortions seemed to observe a regular law, and were the same in all the specimens
examined. It may be remarked that the optic axes of this crystal are unsym-
merrically placed with respect to the crystalline form, Mini. Inst., tom. x.
398 FOURTH REPORT -- 1834.

gravity, the axes of polarization being carried alternately to one
ukle or other of the axis of the crystal, or of the perpen
dicular line. These oscillations being isochronous, the thick
ness traversed by the molecule in its motion of translation du
ring each of them is constant, and is assumed to be equal to
double the depth to which it has penetrated before commencing
its vibrations. The oscillatory movement is supposed to stop,
when the molecules repass into air through the second face of
the crystal ; and the emergent ray has a fixed polarization, the
same as if the last oscillation of the molecules had been actually
completed at the instant of emergence. Thus a polarized ray
which has traversed a thin crystalline plate is ultimately polar
ized either in the primitive plane, or in a plane inclined to it at
an angle equal to double the angle which it forms with the prin
cipal section, according as the thickness of the crystal is an odd
or an even multiple of a certain length *. The formulae deduced
from these postulates is found to represent all the more obvious
laws of the tints with much fidelity.
This assumed difference between the effects produced by thick
and thin crystals has however been completely disproved by the
decisive experiments of Fresnel. When two mirrors, slightly in
clined, are placed so as to receive the incident light at the polar
tizhiincgknaensgslea,reainndtetrpwoosedla,m--inaoeneoinf             of lime of the same
                                                          sulphate  of each of the reflect
                                                          the path
ed pencils, and so that their principal sections are inclined at
              of 45° on either side of the plane of primitive polarization,
a--ngthlees  phenomena of the interference bands prove in the clearest

manner that the light emergent from each consists of two pencils
polarized respectively in the principal section and in the per
pendicular section of the crystals ; and that the results differ
from those   produced by thick       crystals only in               this,  that the two
pencils are                           light resulting               from   the union of
             superposed f. The
these oppositely polarized pencils has, in certain cases, the
properties ascribed to it in the theory of M. Biot; but these
properties are immediate and necessary consequences of the
laws of interference of polarized light, and of the theory of
transversal vibrations.

· "Sur im nouveau genre d'Oseillation," &c, Mem. hist. 1812.
t Sec Report made to the Academy of Sciences, in 1821, on the memoir of
Fresnel relative to the colours of crystallized plates, Annaht de Chimie, tom. xvii.
Indeed, a more obvious objection to  --M.naBmioet'lsy,ththeaotrythme apyhebneomdreanwan
fact which he has himself observed;                                                      from the
                                                                                         of colour

may be produced by crossing two thick plates of nearly the same thickness,
although the thickness in each was sufficient to furnish two images sensibly
separated, and therefore having a fixed polarization.
            REPOIIT ON PHYSICAL OPTICS.                                                             999

   Let us now inquire what account the wave-theory furnishes
of the same phenomena.-- A ray of light on entering a crystal
line plate is divided into two, or, in the language of the wave-
theory, a series of waves incident upon the crystal is resolved
into two within it, which traverse it in different directions and

with different velocities. One of these sets of waves, therefore,
will lag behind the other, and they will be in different phases of
vibration at emergence. When the plate is thin, the emergent
waves are superposed ; and as the retardation will then amount
only to a few undulations and parts of an undulation, it would
appear that we have here all the conditions necessary for their
interference, and the consequent production of colour. Such
was the sagacious conjecture of Young. And indeed, shortly
after the publication of the first researches of M. Biot on the
laws of the tint» for different thicknesses, it was observed by
Young that these tints corresponded accurately to the interval
of retardation of the two pencils ; so that they were manifestly
due to interference *. This correspondence is now made out

in the fullest manner. It is an easy consequence of Fresnel's
theory of double refraction, that the interval of retardation of
the two pencils, in traversing a crystalline plate, is nearly pro
portional to the length of their path within the crystal multi
plied by the product of the sines of the angles which its direction
makes with the two optic axes ; and as this has been found to
            general measure of                        --thtehetilnetm, niistcafotellsowasndthtahte
be     the  isochromatic curves,                                                                    tchierclfeosrm, --s
       the
of

are all necessary consequences of the wave-theory.
    But in the first application of the principle of interference to
the colours of crystalline plates there arose a difficulty to which
the known laws afforded no answer. So far as this explanation
went, the phenomena of interference and of colour should be

produced by the crystal alone, and in common light, without
either polarizing plate or analysing plate. Such, however, is not
the fact ; and the real difficulty seemed to be, not to explain
how the phenomena
not always produced.  areItproocdcuucreredd,               but to show why they are

                                                           to MM. Arago and Frcsncl
to inquire how far the state of polarization of the two pencils
might modify the known laws of interference ; and the results
of this     inquiry t have                      happily furnished an account of                     the dif
ficulty,                                         the solution of the problem.
             and completed                                                                          It was
found that two rays of light polarized in the same plane, inter -

    ·  "QuMaertmerolyircResvuirewl',Acvtiool.n  xi.   les  Rayons de  la Lumiere  polarised         exercent
                                                 que
    t
lea mis sur les itutrcs," Annaies de Ckimie, tom. x.
400 FOURTH REPORT-- 1834.

fere and produce  lfirginhgte;s--utnhdaet,r   the same circumstances as two
rays of common                               when the planes of polarization
carreeasinecliinneindt, enthseityin; t--erfaenrdentcheat,isfidniamlliyn,iswhheedn
                                                                                   and   the fringes de
                                                                                    the   angle between

these planes is a right angle, the rays no longer interfere at all.
Hence the two rays which emerge from a crystalline plate, being
oppositely polarized, cannot interfere ; and, to produce the phe
nomena of colour in perfection, their planes of polarization must

be brought to coincidence by the analyser.
The non-interference of rays oppositely polarized is a neces
sary result of the mechanical theory of transversal vibrations.
Fresnelhas shown, on the principles of that theory, that the
intensity of the light resulting from the union of two such rays
is constant, and equal to the sum of the intensities of the com
ponents, whatever be the phases of vibration in which they meet.
But though the intensity of the light does not vary with the
phase of the   cwoimll.ponIetntappveibarrastiofrnosm,  the character of the result
ing vibration                                          theory that two rectilinear
and rectangular vibrations compound a single vibration, which
will be also rectilinear when the phases of the component vi
brations differ by an exact number of semiundulations ; that, in
all other cases, the resulting vibration will be elliptic ; and that
the ellipse will become a circle, when the component vibrations
have equal amplitudes, and the difference of their phases is an
odd multiple of a quarter of a wave. These results of theory
have been completely confirmed by experiment. When a polar
ized beam diverging from a luminous origin is transmitted
through two rhomboids of Iceland spar of equal thickness, hav
ing their principal sections inclined 45° on either side of the
plane of primitive polarization, the emergent light will diverge
as if from two near points, and              the two portions will be oppo
sitely polarized. It was found               by Fresnel and Arago that the
light resulting from the union of these pencils was plane, cir
cularly, or elliptically polarized, according to the difference of
the paths traversed when they met.
Here, then, we have an account of the facts which seem to
have suggested the theory of moveable polarization ; and we
learn moreover that they are but particular cases of the general
result. The light arising from the union of the ordinary and
extraordinary pencils which emerge from the crystalline plate,
will be polarized in the primitive plane, or in a plane inclined
to it at an angle equal to double the angle which it makes
with the principal section, according as the interval of re
tardation of the two pencils is an even or an odd multiple of

half a wave. In all other cases, the thickness of the crystal
       REPORT ON PHYSICAL OPTICS.                                  401

having any other value than those which exactly answer to
these intervals, the resulting light will be elliptically -polarized.
The ellipse will become a circle, and the light will appear to be
completely depolarized, when the two pencils are of equal in
tensity, and the interval of retardation is an odd multiple of a
quarter of a wave.    Here, then,  is suggested         an         method of
putting the theory    of moveable   polarization         to  easy
                                                              the  test. If a

plate of sulphate of lime, whose thickness corresponds to such
an interval, be placed in a beam of polarized light of some
simple colour, so that its principal section is inclined at an
angle of 45° to the plane of primitive polarization, the emergent
light should, according to the theory of waves, be circularly-
polarized; and the two pencils into which it is divided by the
analysing rhomb should not vary in intensity during its revolu
tion. According to the theory of moveable polarization, on the
other hand, the light should be plane-polarized ; and one of the
images should vanish when the principal section of the rhomb co
incided either with the primitive plane, or the plane perpendicu

lar to it. This experimentum cruris was tried by MM. Fresnel
and Arago, and the result was just as had been predicted by the
wave-theory *.
   In the prosecution of their researches on the laws of inter

ference of polarized light, MM. Fresnel and Arago discovered
further that two oppositely polarized rays will not interfere,
even when their planes of polarization are brought to coinci
                                                       the whole of which was
dence, unless they    belong  tpolaanepe; --ncailn, d   that, in the interference
originally polarized  in one
of rays which have undergone double refraction, half an undula
tion must be supposed to be lost or gained, in passing from the
ordinary to the extraordinary system. The latter principle is a
beautiful and simple consequence of the theory of transversal
vibrations. When a vibration in any given direction is re
solved into two at right angles, and each of these again into a
second pair, in two fixed directions which are also perpen
dicular, it will easily appear that, of the four components into
which the original vibration is thus resolved, the two in one of
the final directions conspire, while those in the other are
opposed. The tint produced by the interference of the former,
therefore, corresponds to the actual difference of routes of the two

polarized rays in the plate ; while that arising from the latter
is that due to the same difference augmented or diminished by
half an undulation.

The former of the two laws now mentioned explains the office

1834.                 · Annalet de Chimie, torn. xvii.
                                        2d
402 FOURTH REPORT -- 1834.

of the polarizing plate in these phenomena. To account me
chanically for the fact of the non-interference of the two pencils,
when the light incident upon the crystal is uripolarized, it is
necessary to consider such light as a rapid succession of systems
of waves polarized in all azimuths ; so that if any two planes be
assumed at right angles, there will be an equal quantity of light
actually polarized in each. Each of these portions, when re
solved into two within the crystal, and these afterwards reduced
to the same plane of polarization by the analysing plate, will ex
hibit the phenomena of interference. But the interval of retard
ation differs by half a wave in the two cases ; the tints produced
therefore will be complementary, and the light resulting from
their union will be of a uniform whiteness.
We are obliged to admit, therefore, that common light con
sists of a rapid succession of systems of waves, in each of which
the vibrations are different. But the phenomena of interference,
(which are exhibited by common light) compel us also to admit,

as Professor Airy has observed*, that the vibrations do not
change continually ; and that in each system of waves there are
psirmobilaabr,ly--saeltvheoraulghhuthnedrevdibrastuicocnesssoivfeonevibsyrastteiomnsb, eawrhnicoh   are all
                                                                                                   relation

to those of another, and the different systems succeed one
another with such rapidity as to obliterate all trace of polariza
tion. This persaltum transition from one system of waves, to
another in which the vibrations are wholly different, seems a
complication in the machinery of light, for which the elegant
Isimplicity of the parts better known has not prepared us ; and
   cannot but indulge the hope that the hypothesis, which now
stands as the representative of experimental laws, may be found
to merge in some simpler physical principle.
The laws of interference of polarized light have thus supplied
the defective link in the explanation of the colours of crystallized
plates first suggested by Young. The magnitudes of the re
solved vibrations are known, when the planes of polarization of
the two pencils are given with respect to the plane of primitive
polarization, and the plane of analysation ; and as the laws of
double refraction enable us to find the interval of retardation of

these pencils, we have all the data necessary for the compu
tation of the intensity and colour of the light resulting from
their interference. This computation has been given by Fresnel,
npoostedonfl;y  for a single plate, but likewise for  two plates super
                and the theory has been since more    fully developed by
Professor Airy J. The results are found to be, in all cases, in

· Mathematical Tracts, p. 407.  + Annates de C/timie, tom. xvii.
I Cambridge Transactions 1831, and Math. Tracts.
REPOHT ON PIIYSTCAL OPTICS.          403

exact accordance with the observed facts ; and all the circum
stances of the coloured rings in uniaxal and biaxal crystals are

completely explained.
The form of the rings, or isochromatic curves, depends upon
the interval of retardation alone ; and the value of this interval
had been deduced but approximately. Mr. M'Cullagh has re
cently given a general and exact method for its calculation, and
for the determination of the forms of the rings for any plate of
a double-refracting crystal bounded by parallel planes. This
                                     the properties of the surface of
method is made to  depend  I  upon
wave-slowness, of  which       have  spoken in another place ; and
it is found that if the incident ray be produced to meet the
sphere, (which is the surface of wave-slowness for air,) and
through the point of intersection a perpendicular drawn to the
refracting surface, meeting the two sheets of the surface of
wave-slowness for the crystal, the intervals of retardation of the
rays at emergence will be measured by the thickness of the cry
stal multiplied by the difference of the corresponding ordinates*.
By the aid of an expressive notation for the path of a ray, the
author has extended his conclusions to the case of a ray which
Ifhas undergone any number of internal reflexions.

       the double-refracting energy of the crystal were the same
for the light of every colour, the colours of the rings should
follow exactly the Newtonian scale of tints, and their magnitudes
should observe the same laws as those of the rings formed between
two object-glasses. This is the case in carbonate of lime, beryl,
and some other crystals ; and in these, therefore, the colours
are similar to those of thin plates. But many remarkable devi
ations from this law have been observed by Sir John Herschel
and Sir David Brewster. Thus, in the common uniaxal apo-
phyllite, it was observed by the former writer, the diameters of
the rings are very nearly the same for all the colours of the
spectrum ; so that the rings of different colours are superposed,
fand form a succession alternately black and white, which may

be traced through a great number of orders . In this remark
able case, then, the double-refracting energy of the crystal
varies very nearly in the subduplicate ratio of the lengths of the

waves for the rays of different colours. A very remarkable case

If· y y y represent the corresponding ordinates of the sphere, and of the

two sheets of the surface of wave-slowness for the medium, and 6 the thickness

of the crystal, d (y -- y), t (y -- y) will be the retardations of the two refracted
waves at emergence, and 0 (y --y ) will be the interval between them. --
" Geometrical Propositions applied to the Wave-theory of Light,'' Trans. R. J.

Academy, vol. xvii.

   t PA*. Tram, 1820.

                                      2 d2
404 FOURTH REPORT 1834.

of the inversion of the Newtonian scale of tints was observed by
Sir John Herschel in some rare varieties of the same mineral.
The diameters of the rings, instead of contracting as the re-

frangibility increases, enlarge, and actually become infinite for
rays of mean refrangibility. Having passed through infinity,
they again acquire a finite value ; and diminish as the refrangi
bility increases up to the extremity of the spectrum. Here, then,
for rays of a certain mean refrangibility the crystal is singly re
fractive; and as the double refraction changes its character in
passing through zero, the crystal is positive for the rays of one
end of the spectrum, and negative for those of the other *. This
singular phenomenon is accounted for on the principles of Fres-
nel's theory by supposing that the elasticity increases, with the
length of the wave, faster in the direction of the axis of the cry
stal than in the perpendicular direction ; so that the difference
of these elasticities is positive for the rays of one end of the
spectrum, negative for those of the other, and vanishes at some

intermediate point.

   In biaxal crystals similar deviations take place in the magni
tude of the lemniscates corresponding to the different simple
colours. But there is here another source of irregularity which
is not found in uniaxal crystals. The optic axes vary, in general,
with the colour ; so that the lemniscates differ also in the posi
tion of their poles, and the colours are not the same in different
parts of the same ring. Where the optic axes belonging to
different colours are in different planes, as Sir John Herschel
has observed to be the case in borax, the irregularity produced
in the coloured curves is yet more striking.

   In all the preceding cases, the laws of double-refraction are
                                            ianremtahneysacmryestaalllst,h--rosuugchhouats
dependent  oItnliys  on the direction, and
the mass.            otherwise, however,

analcime and some varieties of apophyllite. The complicated
arrangement of the coloured bands which these substances dis
play in polarized light, proves them to consist of several distinct

portions, possessing different optical properties ; and the phe

nomena indicate relations among the molecular forces, and prin
ciples of aggregation, of which it is difficult in some cases even
to form a conception. These remarkable phenomena, and their
laws, were discovered by Sir David Brewsterf.

    · Cambridge Tram. 1821. Similar properties have been observed by the
same author in other crystals, as hyposulphate of lime and vesuvian. From the
table of tints exhibited by the latter substance it appears that the most refracted
of the two images is the least dispersed.

   t Edin. Trans., vol. ix. & x.
          REPORT ON PHYSICAL OPTICS.            405

When a polarized ray traverses a plate of Iceland spar, beryl,
or almost any other uniaxal crystal, in the direction of its axis,
it suffers no change of any kind ; so that when the emergent
ray is analysed by a double-refracting prism, the two pencils
into which it is divided are colourless, and one of them vanishes

when the principal section of the prism is parallel, or perpendi
cular to the plane of primitive polarization. But when a ray
passes in the same manner through a plate of rock crystal, the
phenomena are very different. Two images are given in every
position of the prism; these images are of complementary
colours ; and the colours change in the most beautiful manner
as the prism is turned round in its cell. These phenomena
indicate that the plane of polarization has been changed, and
differently for the different rays of the spectrum. They were

first observed by M. Arago ; and he has given an account of his
observations in his memoir on the colours of crystalline plates,
read to the Institute in the year 1811.
   The subject was then taken up by M. Biot, in a paper pub
lished in the Memoires de I'lnstitut, in the year 1812; and the
analysis of the phenomenon was completed in a second memoir
read in the year 1818*. When a polarized ray of any simple
colour passes through a plate of rock crystal in the direction of
the optic axis, it is still polarized after emergence; but its
plane of polarization is changed. The angle through which the
plane is  made to revolve, varies with the      colour of the light,
and with  the thickness of the plate, -- being  proportional to that
thickness divided by the square of the length of the fit or wave.
In some crystals the plane of polarization revolves from left to
right, while in others it is turned in an opposite direction ; and
the crystals themselves are denominated right-handed or left-
handed, according as they produce one or other of these effects.
When two plates are superposed, the effect produced is, very
nearly, the same as that due to a single plate whose thickness
is the sum or difference of the thicknesses of the two plates, ac
cording as they are of the same or of opposite denominations.
This curious distinction between plates cut from different
crystals has been connected by Sir John Herschel with a corre
sponding diversity in the crystalline form. The ordinary form
of the crystal of quartz is the six-sided prism terminated by the
six-sided pyramid. The solid angles formed at the junction of
the pyramid and the prism are sometimes replaced by small
secondary planes, which in the same crystal lean all in the

   * " Memoire sur les Rotations que ccrtaines substances impriment aux axes

de polarisation des Rayons luminvux."
406 FOURTH REPORT 1834.

same direction ; and it is found that when that direction is to
the right, (the apex of the pyramid being uppermost,) the cry
stal is rig ht- handed ; and that on the contrary it is left-handed,
when the planes lean in the opposite way *. Sir David
Brewster has shown that the amethyst, or violet quartz, is
actually composed of alternate layers of right-handed and left-

handed quartz. It is to the cropping out of the edges of these

layers, that the undulating appearance peculiar to the fracture
of this mineral is owing. The structure itself is displayed in

the most beautiful manner in polarized light f.
   Some liquids, and even gases, have been found by MM. Biot

and Seebeck to possess the same property as quartz, though in
a much feebler degree ; and to impress a rotation on the plane
of polarization of the intromitted ray, which is proportional to
the thickness of the substance traversed. These liquids do not
lose their rotatory power by dilution with other liquids not pos
sessing the property. They retain it even when raised to the
state of vapour ; and, in general, the rotatory power is inde
pendent of the mode of aggregation, provided the molecular
constitution is unchanged. Lastly, when two or more liquids
possessing this property are mixed together, the rotation pro
duced by the mixture is the sum of the rotations produced by
the ingredients, in thicknesses proportional to the volumes in

which they are combined. From these and other facts M. Biot

concludes that the property of rotatory polarization is inherent
in the ultimate particles of bodies, and does not depend on their

mutual distance or arrangement J. On the other hand, quartz

is found to lose the property when deprived of its crystalline
structure. Thus Sir John Herschel observed that quartz held
in solution by potash did not possess the property ; and the
same thing has been remarked by Sir David Brewster with
respect to fused quartz.

   The phenomena of rotatory polarization in rock crystal, M.
Biot ascribed to a continued rotation of the molecules of light
round their centres of gravity, produced by the operation of

some unknown forces. Fresnel has proved that they arise from
the interference of two circularly-polarized pencils which are
propagated along the axis with unequal velocities, one revolving

J* Cambridge Trans., vol. i.  + Ed'm. Trans., vol. ix.
M. Biot has recently extended his researches on this subject to a great
variety of substances, Annates du Museum d'Histoire NaturelU, torn. ii. In a
memoir read to the French Academy last year he has applied the laws of cir
cular polarization to the analysis of the process of vegetation in the grasses ; and
he has shown, in general, the importance of the indications drawn from these
phenomena in the researches of organic chemistry. Inslilut, Nos. 1 & 9.
                         REPORT ON PHYSICAL OPTICS.                   407

from left to right, and the other in the opposite direction. A
plane-polarized ray, in fact, is equivalent to two circularly-
polarized rays of half the intensity, in one of which the vibra
tions are from left to right, and in the other in the opposite di
rection. When a plane-polarized ray, therefore, is incident
perpendicularly upon a plate of rock crystal, cut perpendicu
larly to the axis, it may be resolved into two such circularly-
polarized rays. These are supposed to be transmitted with dif
ferent velocities ; so that when they assume a common velocity
at emergence, one of them is in advance of the other. They
then compound a single ray polarized in a single plane ; and
this plane, it can be shown, is removed from the plane of pri
mitive polarization through an angle proportional to the interval
of retardation of the two pencils, and therefore measured by the
thickness of the crystal. But this interval varies also with the
colour of                                awraevoebs,ligwehdatteovesrupbpeostehetihralteintgitsh,t--he
same for           the light ; and  we
                   a given number    of

so that, for a given thickness of the crystal, it varies inversely
as the length of a wave. From this supposition it will follow
that the deviation of the plane of polarization of the emergent
ray is inversely as the square of that length, agreeably to the

experimental results of M. Biot*.
The laws of rotatory polarization are then completely ex
                         it only remained to prove the truth of
pthlaeisnise,d--;   and  two circularly-polarized pencils, whose      the hypo
                   that                                               vibrations

are in opposite directions, will actually be transmitted along the
axis of quartz with different velocities. This supposition is
easily put to the test of experiment ; since such a difference of
velocities must give rise to a difference of refraction, when the
surface of emergence is oblique to the direction of the ray. Ac

cording to the hypothesis, therefore, a plane-polarized ray,
transmitted through a prism of rock crystal in the direction of

the optic axis, should undergo double refraction at emergence ;
and the two pencils into which it is divided should be circularly-
polarized. This has been completely verified by Fresnel, by an
achromatic combination of right-handed and left-handed prisms
arranged so as to double the separation ; and he has shown
that the two pencils are neither common nor plane-polarized
light, but possess all the characters which are impressed upon a
polarized ray by two total reflexions from glass at an angle of

about 50°.

   The refraction of quartz, then, in the direction of its axis is
wholly different from that of every other known crystal. In

                         * Annate* de Chimie, torn, xxviii. p. 1 17.
408 FOURTH REPORT -- 1834.

other directions, the two pencils into which a single ray is di
vided, were supposed to obey the ordinary laws, and to be
plane-polarized in opposite planes. This supposition has been
overturned by Professor Airy *, and it has been shown that the
two pencils in quartz are, each of them, elliptically -polarized ;
the elliptical vibrations of the two rays being in opposite direc
tions, and the greater axes of the ellipses being in the principal
fplane, and perpendicular to it respectively. The ratio of the
axes,   in these ellipses, is         the    same in     the  --twboeinrgaysa      ; but
varies  with their inclination         to   the optic  axis,                    ratio of

equality when the direction of the ray coincides with the axis,
and increasing indefinitely with their inclination to that line ac
cording to some unknown law. As to the course of the re
fracted rays, Professor Airy finds that it is still determined by
the Huygenian law ; but that the sphere and spheroid, which
determine the velocity and direction of the two rays, do not
touch, as in all other known uniaxal crystals, the latter surface
being contained entirely within the former. This position is
certainly a startling one. The two sheets of the wave-surface
being thus absolutely separated, there is a complete interruption
of continuity in passing from the velocity of one ray to that of
the other ; a result which                  not hold in any other case with
which we are acquainted.              does  is however necessary to the ex

                                        It
planation of the phenomena ; for the interval of retardation does
not vanish with the inclination of the ray to the axis. Professor
Airy has given an elaborate           crianlgcus,la&tico.n--foduisnpdlaeydedon
                                                                                 these hypo
theses, of the forms of the                                                     by quartz in
plane-polarized, and circularly-polarized light, and in any posi
tion of the analysing plate ; and he has found the most strik
ing agreement between the results of calculation and those of

observation.
We yet want a mechanical theory which will account for the
peculiar form of the wave-surface just alluded to. Fresnel seems
to have thought that the difference of the velocities of the two

rays in the direction of the axis might be physically explained

· " On the Nature of the Light in the two rays produced by the double re
fraction of Quartz," Cambridge Transactions 1831.
t In the Supplement to this paper Professor Airy has explained a highly in
genious method of determining experimentally the relation between the ellip-
ticity and the direction  of            of the rays. This                                         a
remarkable effect which   he  either  been led to expect   frmoemthotdheodreyp;e--ndnsamueployn,  a
                               had

sudden change of half an undulation in the interval of retardation, and there
fore a change of half an order in the rings, when the incident light is elliptically
polarized. From the results of some experiments conducted in this method
Professor Airy seems to think that the ratio of the axes in the ordinary ray ap
proaches more nearly to one of equality, than in the extraordinary ray.
                 REPORT ON PHYSICAL OPTICS.                                                       409

by an helicoidal arrangement of the molecules of the vibrating
medium, which will have different properties according as the
helices are right-handed or left-handed. But this hypothesis
can hardly be supposed to apply to the case of fluids, in which
the property of circular polarization is independent of direction ;
and we are driven to confess that, with respect to these import
ant laws, physical theory is as yet wholly at fault. The singular
relation between the interval of retardation and the length of the
wave seems to afford the only clue to the unravelling of this

difficulty.
   The phenomena of depolarization and of colour, impressed
by double-refracting substances upon the transmitted light, are,
we have seen, the necessary results of the interference of the
two pencils into which the light is divided within them. These
properties, then, enable us to discover the existence, and to
trace the laws of double-refraction, even in substances in which
the separation of the two pencils is too minute to be directly
observed. By such means the important discovery has been
made, that a double-refracting structure may be communicated
          a

                     it

                                                    a
                                                             ;

                                                             it,

                                                                                               a
to bodies which do not naturally possess by mechanical com
pression and dilatation. Sir David Brewster observed that
when pressure was applied to the opposite faces of parallele
piped of glass,                       tint in polarized light, like a
                 developed
plate of double-refracting crystal and the tint descended in

the scale as the pressure was augmented. Singly-refracting
crystals, such as muriate of soda and fluor spar, acquired the

properties of double refraction by the same means *. All this
is in perfect accordance with the wave-theory. Owing to the
connexion of the vibrating medium with the solid in which
                 is
                                                                 it
                                                                          is
contained, its elasticity rendered unequal in different direc
tions by the effect of compression, the maximum and minimum
corresponding to the directions of greatest and least pressure.
Accordingly, the vibrations of the ray on entering the plate are
resolved into two in these rectangular directions, and these are
propagated with unequal velocities the colour developed is
determined by the interval of retardation. These results of
                 ;

                           it
                                                        ;
theory were experimentally confirmed by Fresnel, by the me
thod of interferences and was found that the velocity with
which ray traversed the glass was greater or less, according
as was polarized parallel or perpendicular to the axis of com
it

       a

pression. The bifurcation of the ray at oblique incidences a
                                                           A;

                                                                        is
necessary consequence of this difference of velocities but this
                 ·                    direct experiment.                                          series of

                                  by
was also shown by Fresnel

                 Phil. Trans. 1815 and 1816.
410 FOURTH REPORT 1834.

glass prisms were placed together with their refracting angles
alternately in opposite directions, and the  ends  of the alternate
prisms powerfully pressed by screws.               ray transmitted
                                              A

through the combination was found to be divided into two op
positely polarized *.
The opposite effects of compression and dilatation may be
seen in a thick plate of glass which is bent by an external
force. When this body is interposed between the polarizing
and analysing plates, so as to form an angle of 45° with the plane
of primitive polarization, two sets of coloured bands, are seen
separated by a neutral line ; and these vanish altogether when
the compressing force is withdrawn. By crossing the glass
with a plate of mica or sulphate of lime, Sir David Brewster
found that the parts towards the convex, or dilated side of the
neutral line, had acquired a positive double-refracting structure,
and those at the concave, or compressed side, a negative one t.
The intimate connexion between the double -refracting property,
and the internal state of the body as to condensation or rarefac
t--ionth,aits  likewise proved           curious observation of M. Biot,
               glass, when in    by the  of sonorous vibration, possesses
                                a state

the power of depolarizing the light.
In these cases of induced double refraction, the phenomena
are related to the form of the entire mass ; and are essentially
different from those produced by regular crystals, in which the
law of elasticity and of double refraction depends solely on the
direction, and is the same in all parts of the substance. Sir
David Brewster has lately succeeded in communicating a regu
lar double-refracting structure to a mixture of resin and white
wax, by pressing it into a thin film between two plates of glass.
This film had a single axis of double refraction at every point
in the direction of the axis of pressure ; and the tint developed
depended solely on the inclination of the ray to this line. Sir
David Brewster has drawn from this phenomenon some highly
interesting conclusions respecting the origin of double refraction
in regular crystals. He mentions several facts which seem to
prove that this property is not inherent in the molecules them
selves ; and he conceives that it is developed by the unequal
pressure caused by the forces of aggregation, which are in gene
ral different in the direction of three rectangular axes. Thus
the double-refracting properties and the crystalline form are
refeSrirredDatvoidthBe resawmseteragaenndcyD%r.. Seebeck had before observed the

· Annates de Chimic, torn, xx.               f Phil. Trans. 1816.
X Phil. Trans. 1830.
            REPORT ON PHYSICAL OPTICS.  41 I

phenomena arising from unequal condensation and rarefaction in
the case of uncrystallized bodies unequally heated. These phe
nomena may be studied by applying a bar of hot iron to the edge
of a rectangular plate of glass, and placing it in the polarizing
apparatus, so that the heated edge may form an angle of 45°

with the plane of primitive polarization. At the end of some
time the whole surface of the plate is observed to be covered
with coloured bands, the parts near the opposite edges having

acquired a positive double-refracting structure, and those near
the centre a negative one. The effects are reversed when a plate
of glass uniformly heated is rapidly cooled at one of its edges ;
and all the appearances vanish when the glass acquires the same
temperature throughout*. These phenomena may be endlessly
Ifvaried by varying the form of the glass to which the heat is
applied.    now, by any means, the glass be arrested in one of
these transient states, it will have acquired a permanent double-
refracting structure. This has been accomplished by M. See-
beck by raising the glass to a red heat, and then cooling it
rapidly at the edges. As the outer parts, which are thus more
condensed, assume a fixed form in cooling, the interior parts
must accommodate themselves to that form, and therefore retain
a state of unequal density. The law of the change of density,
and therefore the double-refracting structure, will depend on the
external form ; and M. Seebeck found, accordingly, that the
coloured bands and patches which such bodies display in po
larized light, assume a regular arrangement which varies with
the shape of the masst. The laws of these phenomena have
been completely analysed by Sir David Brewster ; and he has
shown that the colours are those of crystallized plates, the direc
tion of the axes however being different in different parts of the

substance.
As the double-refracting structure is communicated to bodies
which do not possess it
or unequal temperature,  --nasotu, rbayllyth, ebuysemoefchthaenicsaalmecmomeapnress,stiohnat
structure may be altered in the bodies in which it already resides.
Thus Sir David Brewster and M. Biot have found that the double
refraction of regular crystals may be altered, and the tints they
display made to rise or descend in the scale, by simple pressure.
But the changes induced by heat are yet more remarkable.
Professor Mitscherlich discovered the important fact, that, in

   · Phil. Tram. 1816.
   t The experiments of M. Seebeck are recorded in Schtoeigger's Journal, 1814.
The depolarizing property of unannealcd glass seems to have been first noticed
by M. Arago ; and was afterwards studied by Sir David Brewster in glass which
had been melted and cooled in water.-- Phil. Trans. 1814.
412 FOURTH REPORT -- 1834.

general, heat dilates crystals differently in different directions,
and so alters their form ; and their double-refracting properties
have been found to undergo a corresponding change. Thus Ice
land spar is dilated by heat in the direction of its axis ; while it
actually contracts by a small amount in directions perpendicular
to it. The angles of the primitive form thus vary, the rhomboid
becoming less obtuse*, and approaching the form of the cube.
M. Mitscherlich, accordingly, conjectured that its double-refract
ing energy must in these circumstances be diminished ; and the
conjecture was fully verified by experiment. This inquiry has
been followed up by M. Rudberg ; and the effects of heat on the
refractive indices of double-refracting crystals examined by the

direct method of prismatic refraction. In conformity with the
observations of M. Mitscherlich, it was found that the extra
ordinary index in Iceland spar increased considerably with the
temperature, while the ordinary index underwent little or no
change. In rock crystal, on the other hand, both indices dimi

nished as the temperature augmented, and nearly by the same
amount. In arragonite a             similar effect
                                                     was     produced on the
three principal refractive          indices, -- the  least   index, however,
undergoing the smallest proportionate diminution \.
   The inclination of the optic axes, in biaxal crystals, is a simple
function of the elasticities of the vibrating medium in the direc
tion of three rectangular axes ; and the plane of the optic axes is
that of the greatest and least elasticities. If, then, these three
principal elasticities be altered by heat in different proportions,
the inclination of the axes will likewise vary ; and         if,
                                                                    in the
course of this change, the difference between the greatest elasti  ;
city and the mean, or between the mean and the least, should
vanish and afterwards change sign, the two axes will collapse
into one, and finally open out in plane perpendicular to their

former plane. All these variations have been actually observed.
                                    is
                                                  a
Professor Mitscherlich found that, in sulphate of lime, the angle
between the axes (which about 60° at the ordinary tempera
ture) diminishes on the application of heat that, as the tem
                                                     ;

perature increases, these axes approach until they unite and
that, on still further augmentation of heat, they again separate
        a

and open out in perpendicular plane. The primitive form of
                    a
                                 a
the crystal undergoes corresponding change, the dilatation
being greater in one direction than in another at right angles to

a        A change of temperature, from the freezing-to the   obfoitlhinega-pxiosi.n--t, Bpurolld. uScoeed.
     ·
      change of 84' in the dihedral angles at the extremity
Phil., March 1824.

        Phil. Mag., Third Series, vol. 409.
t                                   i.
REPORT ON PHYSICAL OPTICS.                                            413

it. Sir David Brewster has observed an analogous, and even yet
more remarkable property, in glauberite. At the freezing tem
perature this crystal has two axes for all the rays of the spec
trum, the inclination of the axes being greatest in red light and
least in violet. As the temperature rises the two axes approach,
and those of different colours unite in succession ; and at the

ordinary temperature of the atmosphere, the crystal possesses
the singular property of being uniaxal for violet light and
biaxal for red. When the heat is further increased, the axes
which have united open out in order, and in a plane at right
angles to that in which they formerly lay ; and at a tempera
ture much below that of boiling water, the planes of the axes
for all colours are perpendicular to their first position*. The
inclination of the optic axes in topaz, on the other hand, aug
ments with the increase of temperature; and the variation,

M. Marx has observed, is much greater in the coloured than in
the colourless varieties of this mineral f.

· Edin. Tram., vol. xi. ; and Phil. Mag., Third Series, vol. i. 417.
t Jahrb. der Chemie, vol. ix.
                                              [ 415 ]

'ReoGpfoeHrotrygodenratuhRleiecnsPnroaiegsr,aesEBssraqan.n,cdhFp.orRef.sSeEn.n,tginASetceaartdein.go.Rf eogu.PraSKrtcn.oIIw.TleudrBigney.

Corresp., 81c. fyc.

My former paper was confined to a brief elucidation of the pro
gress and present state of that branch of hydrodynamics which
relates to the motions of fluids through orifices, tubes, and arti
ficial channels. My object was to combine together the expe
riments which had been made by different philosophers (from
Castelli and Galileo down to Lesbros and Poncelet,) to deter

mine the effective expenditures from orifices of different kinds,
as well as the remarkable phaenomena exhibited by the motions

of fluid veins. In the first instance, with regard to orifices, it
was shown, That the law of Torricelli relative to bodies gravi
tating in free space, (and which applies to all fluids,) requires
certain modifications which diminishes their expenditure as
compared with the areas of the orifices nearly one half, and the
tdhiaremeetfeorurothf sth;e--fTluhidat               it issued from the orifice
                                        vein  after  of the orifice (with equal  nearly
                                         the  form                               areas)

had little influence over the expenditure :
2ndly, That although an increase of expenditure (considerably
above the expenditures by simple orifices of equal magnitude,)
is found to take place through additional or cylindrical tubes,
equal in length to three times the                                 o;f--tThheatortihfieces,aymeet
very little variation exists in their                 diameter
                                                     coefficients

is true of conical or divergent ajutages, but with greater expen
ditures :
3rdly, That the expenditures by incomplete orifices, i.e.
through rectangular notches in dams, (and which form a particu
lar case of simple orifices,) follow the parabolic law, with a co
efficient of two thirds of the orifice :

4thly, That the expenditures by rectilinear and curvilinear
pipes follow more complicated laws, which can only be re
presented by a certain portion of the height or inclination of
the column ; and that the various formulae which have been ap

plied to the determination of these questions approximate very

nearly.
The same may be said of the formulae made applicable to the
motions of fluids in artificial and natural channels; and to other
cases of orifices when influenced by variable pressures, as in
416 FOURTH REPORT -- 1834.

locks and sluices, &c. ; or when the motions are rendered com
plicated by a system of pipes, as in water-works. The influence
of friction* and adhesion was briefly alluded to. Friction was
stated to have been found to be nearly independent of pressure
and surface, being the same when the fluid was made to run over
different kinds of surfaces, such as glass, wood, and metals,

&c; and with regard to the velocity, resistances were stated to
be as the squares of the velocities at moderate inclinations.

Lastly, as to adhesion, reference was made to the experiments
of Coulomb and others to determine the molecular action of

fluids.
The theory of the motions of canals and rivers is founded on

the following axioms :
1st, That the fluidity of the water, which obliges it to main
         it

                                                                                    ;

                                                                     I
                                                                                              it,
tain a perfectly level surface in any close vessel containing
allows   to move with the utmost facility in any direction,

under the influence of external impulse or gravity;
2ndly, That motion cannot take place in an artificial channel
without an inclination in the surface

   · From the following experiments with which have been favoured by
William Tierney Clarke, Esq. of the West Middlesex Water-works, the friction
and resistance of the pipes to the free motion of the water through them have
been found to be between one fourth and one fifth of the total height of the
column.
Table showing the result of Experiments made at the West Middlesex Water

    works upon work performed by the 64-inch cylinder Engine by Messrs.

   Boulton, Watt, and Co., working with coal as stated below, to Barrow Hill
   Reservoir, being an elevation of 188 feet above low water of the river

   Thames, and working through the 15-inch, 12-inch, and 9-inch Mains.

                                            ounds raised Pounds raised                                    Pounds raised
                         Pounds raised    1 |1
                       foot high per cwt.      1
                       ofcoal consumed,                                 i
                       exclusive of fric                                                            1
                       tion and obstruc
                       tions in pipes,cat-                                                             1
                       culatedatl88feet.    foot high per foot high per cwt. foot high pel
                                            bushelofcoal con- ofco.il consumed, bushel of coal con-
                                            sumed, exchutveWluding all ro sumed, including
                                            of friction and sittance in pipes, all resistance
Name of Coal.                               obstructions in calculated at 42 pipes, calculated
                                            pipes, calculated feet-- equal to 230 at 42 feet -equal
                                            at 188 feet.  feet head.    to 230 feet head.

                       113 lbs.             84 11m.       112 lbs.                                        84 lbs.

1833. Wylam Moor.. 41,406,202               31,054,651    50,656,523    37,992,391
                                            33,469,029    54-594-871    40,946,153
1S34. Holly well Main  44,625,373           33,820,705    55,169,560    41,377,170
 -- Ditto              45,094,274           33,254,157    54,242,241    40,681,680
-- Ditto               44,338,876           30,784,698    50,213,782    37,660,33
-- Wylam Moor..        41,046,265
             REPORT ON HYDRAULICS. PART II.                                       417

3rdly, That when the mean velocity of a current is uniform,
the accelerating force is equal to the retardations ;
   4thly, That as the particles of the fluid fill up the cavities of
the surface and form their own fluid bed, the nature of the sur
face makes very little difference in the retardation.
   The inclination of the surface, or the force of gravity, being

the cause of motion in the whole mass, it follows that when the

motion has become uniform there pass equal quantities of water
through each section in equal times and velocities ; hence the
depth of the water will be the same in every part of the sec
tion, and the surface will be parallel to the bottom of the

channel.

   But the motion would never be uniform if the fluid were per

fect and there were no resistance in the channel : on the con
trary, it would follow the laws of acceleration. But experiment
proves, even with very great inclinations, that the motion soon
becomes uniform : hence the conclusion as a general principle,
t"hathte                                              in any channel or conduit,
          when water moves              uniformly     is equal to the force of acce
                                       experiences
          resistance which it
leration*."
If we examine the motion of a stream of water running in an
open channel, we shall find that the instant the water enters
into the channel, it spreads along the bed in filaments, which
continue to precede the general mass until they are retarded by
the resistances of the bed and overtaken by the superior fila
ments as they reach the termination of the channel, and being
no longer retarded by the friction of the bottom and sides, they
acquire a greater velocity, and thus produce inequalities in the
motions of different parts of the section of the stream ; and ex
periment teaches us that every mass of water, whether it moves
in a pipe, open channel, or river, follows more or less the same
law ; and since the resistance is caused by the surface of the
cthheanrneesli,stathnecegfre, aatenrd  the extent of                        will
                                        vice versa.   surface, the greater         be
                                                      Hence the effect of   the   re
sistance will be in the inverse ratio of the section ; and as adhe

sion forms a certain portion of the resistance, and has been
proved by Coulomb to be simply proportional to the velocity,
it follows that the resistance which water experiences in moving
in an artificial channel is proportional to the quantity of wetted

    · Bossut found that when an artificial canal of wood 200 metres in length
was inclined in the proportion of one decimetre per metre, or one in ten, and
divided the length into 33 metres, each of the spaces, with the exception of the
first, was run over in the same number of seconds.

   t This has been found by me to be very partial.

1834.                                  2e
418 FOURTH REPORT 1834.
surface, and the square of the velocity, plus a small fraction of

the velocity, and is in the inverse ratio of the section *.
   In the preceding determinations we have supposed the water

to have an uniform motion ; that is to say, that each section of
the fluid mass presents the same expenditure and velocity,
and consequently the same depth of water. M. Belanger has
taken into consideration a motion in canals of a different kind ;
it is that in which the fluid mass gives the same expenditure
through its sections, but has not the same depth throughout, nor
with its surface parallel to the bottom. There are examples in
canals where the length is insufficient to produce uniformity of
motion at the commencement and extremity ; likewise, where
the breadth and inclinations are unequal : but it is essential to
the theory of M. Belanger that these variations should take
place insensibly. By admitting the hypothesis of the paral
lelism of filaments being perpendicular to the canal, this engi-

                                              * Formula of Motion.

Let gp be the force of acceleration,
    A and B the two constant coefficients,
     A' the constant multiplier,
B v the friction of the velocity assumed,

c the wetted perimeter of the section,
--c
*             the mean radius or relation of the area to the wetted                           .
                   of the section ;
                                                                                        perimeter

then A' -- (i? + Br) will be the expression of the resistance.

   Then, adopting the principle of the resistance to be equal to the force of ac
celeration gp, we shall have the following equation, viz.

              gp=z     A'-!L (y                 +      Be),    oro = A  -- (C + B t>),
                             s                                           s
--by making A' = A for a portion of the canal taken when the motion is uniform,
of which / =9 the length. P' being the absolute inclination, we shall have

p =.E_and P*= A        (p> Br); or, taking the whole extent of the canal,
               P                                                                        L

                                 -f-
being the length, the total inclination, (from which inclination must be de
ducted the height due to the velocity of the uniform motion,) the equation
                                                       +
will then be    --=                                        Bv  v). We must now determine the two
               2g
              P                               -=- (e*
                         A

                              A

                                             S
constant coefficients  and B.

    Then, taking Eytelwein's results from 91 experiments made on different
canals and rivers, in which the velocity varies from 0-124 metre to 242 metres,
and the fluid section from 0-014 metre to 2-604 metres, follows that
                                                                        it

              g                 A' = 00035855, or
                                A = 000036554,
                               B
                                   = 000638.

So that, putting for the numerical value, the fundamental equation of the mo
                    REPORT ON HYDRAULICS. -- PART II.                                                        419

neer* arrives at an equation which expresses the relation of the
expenditure, the length, the section, and the depth of the water
in the canal under consideration ; by a series of very com

plicated calculations, M. Poncelet has arrived at similar re
sults. But uniformity of motion cannot take place when

the surface of the water is not of the same inclination as the
bottom of the canal, as, for example, when the bottom is hori
zontal, or the declivity is contrary to the current : it was there
fore very important to establish the distinction between the two
kinds of regimen, and only to regard the uniform regimen as
a modification of the permanent regimen ; that is, it was neces
sary to find a general formula which should represent all the

-Hon of water in canals becomes/) = 0-00036554                                  (y + 0-0664 v);       that  is,

                                                                                                               if

v= -rr              being the expenditure,                               is
                                                                            c+ 4
       ,Q                si = 0-00036554 (Q* + 00664 QS);
              is Q  p                                                                     c
                      Q
                                S                                                           ;'
                                   Q                                                               +
                                           (S

                                                            c
for the expression of the velocity, v=z -- 0-0332                               ^2736-- 001I;

for the expenditure, = (-- 00332+ ^2736^.1+ 00011)

_or, what sufficiently near, = -v/2736^ 0-0332).

   In great velocities,  where the resistance                                   simply proportional to their

squares, we have         = ^y/H andQ = SlsV£i.

                         v
                                                c

   These formulas might be illustrated in practice in the method adopted by
Messrs. Prony, Girard, and d'Aubuisson. See Trail!; d'Hydraulique, 8vo,
Paris, 1834, wherein                                                                          and form of
channel which gives   several cases, such as the breadth, height                             -- the circle,  the
                      the greatest expenditure, are determined                                               the
                                                                                            ;

semicircle, and segment of circle; afterwards the regular half-polygons, the
                    n' 2
regular semi-hexagon, the semi-pentagon, and the semi-square.y/ s
    But as many of these figures are inadmissible in practice for canals, we must
adopt trapezium, with its smallest base for the bottom, and having its sides+2 1 a
inclined to angles of about 34°, but which form will be, however, obliterated in1+
the angles in time by deposits, and present concave bottom.a
           2                                                   h I 1, a
            By      preserving the    slopenhat=   c2  to              or n,
            the     mean velocity,                                     being the length,
                                                       2h;
                                                                        = depth or height
                                                                                               ;

and consequently = A2 and =                                              -- 71            n = n'h
                                                               2              h             -f-       ,
                                                                 h                -f-          1
                                                                                       2
                                                                                         h

                                                                                      \J

by making -- n + m = n'. These values will form the equation
p/(6= 0-00004569         (Q% + 0-133 Q/<3), from whence we can deduce /(.
In the case of rectangular canals moving through an aqueduct or rock, the

breadth ought to be double the depth, and consequently v                                    relatifs au Mouve-
   · Essai mr la Solution Numerique de quelques Problemes

ment permanent des Eaux Courantes par M. Belanger.

                                   E2
                                      2

                                                 :
 420 FOURTH REPORT -- 1834.

 circumstances of the permanent motion of running streams.

 This M. B&anger has done, in adopting the following hypo

 theses.
     He first supposes the current, when in a state of permanent

 regimen, to be divided into plates perpendicular to the fluid
 filaments, and the velocity of the particles of the water to be
 constantly the same in the same and every plate :

     Secondly, That each particle of water moves in a right line,
 so that the centrifugal motion generated by the curvilinear mo
 tion (if there be any) may be neglected :

    Thirdly, That, although the analysis which follows cannot ap
 ply but to cases where the dimensions of the section vary in very
 small quantities in proportion to the length, the velocity of each
 particle may be considered to be perpendicular to the plate it
 traverses, neglecting the transversal velocities which exist as

 soon as the section varies from one plate to the other.

    Of these hypotheses, the first, namely, the motion of the cur

 rent by parallel plates, is never realized in nature, because the
 resistance which the periphery of the canal opposes to the mo
 tion of the current is transmitted to the adjacent filaments, and
 so on to the central filament, which moves the quickest ; but in
 general the velocities of the different filaments differ very little,
 and may be safely represented by a mean velocity, which is the
 quotient, or the volume of water expended in a given time, di
 vided by the area of the section, as before stated. As soon as
 this compensation is admitted, each fluid filament may be con

sidered as retarded by a force equivalent to friction. M. Gi-
 rard* has applied this idea to the formation of an equation to

represent the motion of the current, but with the supposition
that the two powers of the velocity are represented by the same
coefficients ; a supposition which cannot apply to every case.

M. Prony has shown that the function which expressed the re

tarding force may be represented by

   g -- {av + b v2), in which the metre is taken for unity and

       the second for the time :
   g1 = 9m 8088 represents the accelerating force of gravity :
    w = the area of the transverse section to which belongs the

       particle under consideration :
   .r = the length of the wetted perimeter of the section :
   v = the mean velocity supposed to be common to all the par

       ticles which traverse the section :

   · Rapport sur It Projet gbilral du Canal de I'Ourcq : par P. S. Girard.
Pari*, 1803.
                 REPORT ON HYDRAULICS, PART II.                                           421

   « and b, two constant quantities to be determined by experi
      ment*.
   From these, and additional notations, M. Belanger arrives at
                        for the                                    ouf nMif.orPmronmy,otwiohnosoef
a general expression  in some                  permanent      and
the current similar                            respects to  that

formula for canals is

                          av + bv* = -- .

   The values of a and b, which represent the constant coefficient
of the first and second powers of the velocity, were determined
by M. Prony from thirty experiments deduced from the mean
and superficial velocities of the current :
                          thus a = 0-000444499

                                      b = 0-0003093 140f.

   Eytelwein has exactly followed M. Prony, but from a greater
number of experiments.
                              a = 0-000242651
                          b = 0-0003655430.

The difference between these respective coefficients does not
much affect the results for calculations in the formulae for the

relations between the velocity of the water in a canal, and its
length, inclination, and section, as they appear in M. Prony's
Five  Tables %.
      the form   of  the  channel              and the volume      of water expended
  If

remain the same, uniformity of motion can only take place when
the canal has one inclination and a proportionate depth through
out its length.
   The true principle, therefore, for regulating the inclination of
a canal, consists in establishing a relation between the ordinates
of the height and the horizontal distances, always considering
that for every volume of water contained in a given inclination,
there must be a depth corresponding to the uniform regimen.
M.Genieys§, who has investigated these principles with a view to
render them applicable to canals and aqueducts, has endeavoured
to find the velocity best suited to the nature of the soil, but al
ways with reference to the velocity necessary to maintain the
salubrity of the water, which has been determined to be 35 centi
          or                                   inches, per second for the minimum
metres,       wahbeoruetas13M| .EnGgirlaisrhd  adopted a less velocity in the canal
velocity   ;
deL'Ourcq. M. Girard at first proposed to lay out the inclination

* Recherchet Physiquei et Muthematiques tur la Thiorie del Eaux Courantct :
par M. de Prony. Paris, 1804.
Jf Recueil de cinq Tables : par M. Prony. Paris, 1825.
   Memoiresde I'Acad&mie de Berlin             (Annees    1814 et 1815).    let  Eaux .'  par
§  Essais tur lea Moyeiu de conduire,           d'elecer  et de distribuer
M. Genie ys.
422 FOURTH REPORT 1834.

according to the law represented by the coordinates of a funi
cular curve, by which the upper part of the canal had an inclina
tion of 0m-O0O0625 per metre, and the lower part of 0m-0O01236
per metre ; but these inclinations were found insufficient. M. Ge-
nieys prefers one decimetre per kilometre, or -nraTJiy Dubuat
is inclined to think that the smallest inclination capable of main

taining the mobility of water is j^'shooiS' Dut tnat at rsuWo"
it is barely perceptible ; and in an artificial channel set to $?$%
he found the mean velocity to be nearly 6 inches per second, and
7 inches per second in a drain near Conde", of which the inclina
tion was £7{f(jff  o5fanyd^s1o0!)i*n-cheMs .peBrossescuotnfdouinndthteherivmerotHioanynteo,   with
an inclination
                                                                                             cease

entirely with pipes having less inclinations than those of Dubuat.
M. Dubuat has given the results of seventeen experiments on
the mean and superficial velocities and radius of a trapezium

canal set at inclinations of 5|g to ^s, also the same results from
fifteen experiments made in a rectangular canal set at inclina

tions of from ?rF to vtJ;%-b, also of four experiments on the
superficial and mean velocities of the river Hayne, all of which
he finds to accord with very nearly the theory laid down by him.
The Romans inclined their canals much more than the mo

derns. Vitruvius fixed the inclination at j^n, Scamozzi at 3-^5.
From different observations made on the ancient aqueducts by
M. Rondeletf, he found the mean inclination to be 1^ line per
French toise, or about            towards the lower part, 1^ line, or

yy^, towards the upper part. More recent experiments have
made the inclination from               to -^fa.
                                  ^^   following  are  some of the inclina
   According to M. Prony,         the
tions of the canals and rivers of the Pontine Marshes.

Canal of Pius VI., in two              Metres- '  Low Water.           Hifth Water.
                                                      Metro.                Metres.

....lengths of                                       4-811000          4-603000
                                       17,677                          0-000260
                                                  y 0-000272           1-830000
Inclination in unity of the length                   0-619000          0-000091
....Second length
Inclination in unity of surface        9,112         0-000068

niir-* The drains in Lincolnshire are inclined at 5 inches to a mile, or
The  slope of the New River   is  3 inches per mile, or , , | ,0. The  slope                 of the
Eau  Brink Cut in Norfolk is  5   inches per mile. The slope of the    New                   Cut of

the Nene at Cross Keys Wash, in Lincolnshire, is about 4-9 inches per mile.
Of the inclinations of the Caer and Foss Dykes, originally constructed by the
Romans, we have no positive information ; but from -i-trimr to ) siua seems to be
a fair average for the inclinations of the drains in low countries ; and on straight
licanals, such as the Thames and Medway, we have seen the effects of the wind
in raising the surface higher at one extremity than the other equal to                       inch

per mile.
t See Commcnlaire dc Frontinus sur let Aqueduct de Rome, par Rondclct :
Paris, 1820.
              HEPOHT ON HYDRAULICS. PART II.            423

The Ninfa, which runs into the above,

    inclines from                         jf 0-012466   to 000009a
                                             0-000095       0000049
TTh. e U1TfffFent.e i.ncl.i.nes f,rom
                                          0-000410      0-000420

              f 1st length                0-001751      0001305

" ^^TheAmaseno\ 2nd  ditto                   0'00063G   0-001152
              [3rd   ditto                   0-000665   0-000905,
^CaitsT1ndines'                        ^
                     *                    } O'00019?    0-000141
....Canal of Botte                           0-000187.
                        ditto

Similar examples might be quoted of the Pedicata, the Scara-
vazza, &c.

These inclinations vary according to circumstances, but in
general they may be taken from s^\jn to u0\yC.

   M. Prony, in the 8th chapter of his Report, proposes to dis
tribute the inclination of the rivers or drains so as not to

corrode their channels ; and this is effected by a series of planes
or falls, from 0-0005035 to 0-0002879 ; as an example he cites
the marshes of Bourgoin in France *.
M. Prony proposes to accommodate the high and low wa
ters by forming the channel into a double set of trapeziums,
so that in times of flood the waters will have liberty to spread
above the lower banks ; and being confined between the higher
or external banks, the capacity but not the velocity will be in
creased. This is precisely the mode adopted in the Eau Brink
and Nene Cuts by the late Mr. Rennie, and by the Italians in
the embankment of the Po and other rivers.
   According to Deschalesf, if the depth and quantity of water
in a river or canal be considerable, it will suffice in the part
nearest the mouth to allow a declivity of one foot perpendicular
in from 6000 to 10,000 feet in horizontal extent, above which the

declivity must be slowly and gradually increased, as far as the
current is made navigable, to 1 foot perpendicular in 4000 feet
horizontal.

Riccioli partly confirms this statement with regard to the
mouth of the river Po. The mean declivity of several of the
canals and rivers in Flanders was found by the Abbe* Mann to be

from yjffff to ^sjy, and of the Lys, near Ghent, by M. Brisson,
one in %$$$   According to the observations of the Abbe" Chappe
D'Auteroche,
              M. Nollet and MM. CassiniJ, the height of the

   · Description Hydrographique et Historique des Marais Pontins, &c. : par
M. Prony. Paris, 1818, de l'lmpriincrie Royale.

   t De Fontibus et Fluviis, Prop. 49.

  J Mbnoires de I'Academie lloyale des Sciences pour 1730.
424 FOURTH REPORT-- 1834.

Seine at Paris above the level of the sea is 127 French feet,
which divided over the length of that river to Havre is one in
4252. By similar observations made on the river Loire by
MM. Picard and Pitot, the declivity in proportion to its length
was found to be -3x7?'
   The Rhone gives the  proportion             j^jjj, which is double  the

mean declivity of the rivers in Flanders.

On the mean Velocity of Water running in artificial Canals.

We have seen, that the resistance of the sides of the channel
causes a diminution in the velocity of the water which is com
municated to parts remote from the periphery ; from which it
follows that when the section is a semicircle the greatest velocity
is in the middle of the surface ; and that in a channel of any

other shape this maximum velocity is in the most distant point
from the periphery ; and that, vice versd, the velocity decreases

towards the periphery. A knowledge of this progression has

always been considered of great importance, and many experi
ments have been made for that purpose.
Dubuat has perhaps made the most accurate experiments on
the subject ; and having performed them on a scale of consider

able magnitude, he concluded that the relation between the velo

city at the surface and the bottom was independent of the depth,
and greater in proportion as the velocity was smaller; he ob
served also, that the mean velocity is a mean proportional be
tween the superficial and bottom velocity, that is, calling
           v  the velocity at the bottom,
              the velocity at the surface,
           V

                          u the mean velocity,
the result of these observations may be represented by the

equations

,,iM>=. (P<ro/ nVy^*0,-1in65d)8isacnudsMsi=ng  £ (V+t/) = ( -/V^O-082)' + 0-00677-
                                               these observations of Dubuat, adopts
       V + 2-372 rt
"V==V + 3-153;thuS>

                                               V. ».

                        0-25                   0-77 V.
                        0-5                    0-79 V.
                                               0-81 V.
                        I-                     0-85 V.

                        2-

           Juiiycugo dcs Kaux L'uuratttes, 1802.
      REPORT ON HYDRAULICS. PART II.                        425

but thinks that in practice u = 0-8V may be adopted, that is, that
the mean velocity of a current of water may be found by taking
      of the superficial velocity. In conclusion, we        say that
$ths                                                  may   canal or
the   resistance which water experiences in moving    in a

channel, is proportional to the wetted perimeter, and to the
square of the velocity plus a fraction of the velocity, and is in
the inverse ratio of the section. This is in accordance with
the experiments of Eytelwein, Funk, and Briinings, &c. And
with regard to the natural phenomena of water running in re
gular channels, we have observed, that with the same inclina
tion throughout the length, the water preserves the same breadth ;
that the section of its surface is composed of curved lines, result
ing from the adhesion of the water to the sides of the channel,
and the mutual reaction of each half of the section, by which
a swell is produced in the middle ; and, finally, that over the
whole surface a series of diagonal lines, crossing each other
from side to side like network, is formed, of which the obliquity
or resultant of the lateral impulsion is proportional to the velo
city of the water in the channel.

On the Progress and present State of our Knowledge of Rivers.

   Hitherto we have confined our attention to the motions of a
fluid in pipes and artificial conduits : the motions of rivers follow
more complicated laws. So long as philosophers were contented
to reason from experiments made under given and determined
conditions, the problem was comparatively easy of solution ;
but the question was very much altered when they attempted to
apply the results to rivers. In the former case, they could regu
late the inclination and velocity of the fluid, and, by comparing
the effective with the calculated expenditures, could analyse
the resistances with approximate accuracy. In the latter case,
they had to contend with an infinity of resistances, which were
augmented or diminished at every instant of time.

   These natural phenomena depend upon the physical constitu
tion of the country and soil in which rivers derive their origin
and formation. For whether we trace them to their sources
among mountains, or follow their directions through the valleys,
to the plains, and thence into the sea, we shall find them (al
though actually governed by well-defined laws,) subject to new

conditions from every inequality of soil and country. In ana
lysing, therefore, the motions of rivers, it is necessary that we
should investigate not only the mechanical properties of the

fluid, but the elements of resistance with which these proper
ties are combined ; that we should prove by comparison how the
426 FOURTH UEPOKT 1834.

sections of rivers assimilate in their inclination and magnitude,
and demonstrate the law of their augmentation in volume, but
decrease of velocity, as they approach the sea.

  It is the office of science to unravel these mysteries ; but al
though the attention of philosophers has been directed to the
attainment of a true theory from the time of Galileo to the pre
sent, our knowledge of the laws which govern the motion of
rivers is as yet very imperfect. The little success with which
they have been investigated may be attributed to the difficulty
of making correct observations, and to the local obstructions
which generally exist in most rivers ; and until we can ascertain
these points correctly, by means of a series of careful experi

ments, we can only arrive at approximate results.
The application of the science of hydraulics to rivers may
be justly said to have arisen in Italy. The peculiar physical
structure of the surface of that country was well calculated to
produce such a result, as it is intersected in all directions by
mountains, and by numerous torrents and rivers, which carry,
off the superfluous waters to the Mediterranean and Adriatic
seas, on either side of the Peninsula. But the lofty character
of these mountains, as compared with the small extent of the
country through which the rivers have to run, causes them to
descend with extreme rapidity into the plains, which are fre
quently ravaged and desolated to an extent unknown in wider
expanses of country. The evils thus generated, independently
of the litigation and strife which they occasioned (and which
exist at the present day), could hardly fail to excite the atten
tion of ingenious men at an early period ; hence may be dated
the origin of that science which has since made such brilliant
progress in Italy.
The arts of irrigation and drainage had been long known and
practised by the ancients; but whatever science existed, seems to
have remained dormant until the eleventh and twelfth centuries,
when the Italians applied themselves to render several of their
rivers navigable, such as the Brenta, the Mincio, the Arno, the

Reno, the Tecino, the Adda, &c., also several canals for irriga
                                  Muzza                      and others. But it was
tion and drainage, such as   the  lock *                     for transporting vessels
only after the invention of  the

    ·  sZaeyns,dr"iniHoin   his treatise, chap. 12, No. 20,  speaking of the invention  of  the
lock                       trovato dunque che Dionisio e     Pietro Domenico, fratelli  da
                                                                                            Vi-
terbo de fu Maestro Francesco di detta citta, ingegnere della Signoria di Vcne-
zia, acquistano del 1481 li 3 di Scttembreda Signori Contarini ccrto sito nella
Bastia di Stra, luogo ben noto verso Padova, per formare in esso un soratore del
Piovego, che e quel canale, che viene da Padova al dctlo luogo di Stra ; ed in
ccj-ta supplica de'medcsimi da V'iterbo di detto anno rcsta espresso, ch'essi, che
REPORT ON HYDRAULICS. -- PART II.                                           427

from one level of a river or canal to another, that a new career

was opened out to hydraulic architecture. By this beautiful
contrivance all the difficulties attending navigation were over
come, rivers were rendered navigable, or avoided where too rapid
or too dangerous, whilst the irregularities of the surface of a

country were compensated.

  The two canals which communicate to the Tecino and Adda
rivers, and which were afterwards united at Milan by the cele
brated Leonardo da Vinci about the end of the 14th century,
were remarkable for the first application of a series of locks to
any canal. The Naviglio Grande, made in the 13th century,
from the Tecino river to Milan, was undoubtedly the first canal
with a lock. In contemplating these works in the year 1827,
the words of that   toexucse,lle"nIto  writer on hydraulics,        Paul  Frisi,
naturally occurred                     no getto mai gli occhi      sopra
                                                                          questi

navigli senza un interno sentimento di stima verso que gl' illustre
architetto chevi seppero vincere tante difficolta*."
    From this epoch may be dated the progress of Italy generally

in the practice of hydraulic architecture. In the year 1516 a
commission of scientific men was appointed by Francis the First
to examine and consider the actual state of the canals then ex-

si chiamano Maestri di Orologio, faranno die le barche e i burchi protranno
passare per la chiusa de Stra senza pericolo, operando in modo, che le acque
usciranno con facilita, senza esser obligate a scaricare, e senza essere tirate," &c.
Antonio Lecchi, in his treatise on Navigable Canals, pronounces the inven
tion of the lock to have taken place in the year
Pietro Candido Decembrio, in his Life of Duke P.  1420, because an    e"arMlyedwitraitteurs,

                                                  M. Visconti, says,

est et aquae rivum, per quem ab Abbiate ad Viglevanum usque sursum veheretur,
aquis altiora scandentibus, machinarum arte, quas Conchas appellant."
Antonio Lecchi further says, that about the year 1188, Pitentino, an archi
tect of Mantua, had constructed a lock at Governolo, on the river Mincio, to
render it navigable, and that many remains of locks existed on several of the
Italian rivers anterior to the year 1 188. Paul Frisi, referring to the expression
of Visconti, says, it only meant a regulator of the surface of the water, and not
a lock. An anonymous Italian writer, in the year 1825, on the canal of Bologna,
                                             14"52D. upIlnicetshe   ten books of Alberti's
gives the discovery to Alberti in the year                         facito clausuras, secto
Architecture the following sentence occurs,
duobus locis flumine spatio intermedio quod navis longitudinem capiat, ut si
erit navis conscensura cum eo applicuerit inferior clausura occludatur, aperiatur
superior: sin autem erit descensura, contra claudatur superior aperiatur inferior,
navis eo pacto cum ista parte fluenti evehetur fluvio secundo." Lastly, Bru-
schetti, in his account of the progress of the internal navigation of the Milanese,
says, that the first lock (conca) was erected at the commencement of the 15th
century at Viarenna, and that the honour of this invention was due to two
engineers of the Grand Duke Philip of Modena, named Orgagni and Fioravante,
and not Leonardo da Vinci, who did not flourish until a century after. The name
conca was given to the lock in consequence of its having been constructed for the
purpose of transporting the stones intended for the Cathedral or Duomo of Milan.
· De' Canali Naoigabili, Trattato del P. I). 1'aoli frisi : Fircnzc, 1770.
428 FOURTH REPORT 1834.

isting in the Milanese, with a view to their further extension.
The result was a project to join the Lake of Como with Milan
by means of the river Adda and the canal of Martesana. This
project was finally executed, and the difficulties of the naviga
tion of the river Adda were overcome by means of a small cut
with ten locks in            it,

                                                                                                   a
                             called the canal of Paderno, which was

finished in the year 1520. The next idea was to open direct
communication between Milan and the Po, but this project,
with many others, such as the junction of the lakes of Como
and Maggiore with the Po, the Tecino with the Po near Pavia,
and the Adda near Cremona*, were postponed on account of

political circumstances.i.
   Hitherto the science of rivers had been greatly neglected,
                it
and indeed had never made much progress until after the cele
brated congress of scientific men in Tuscany in the year 1665.
This congress was appointed by the governments of Rome and
Florence with a view to put an end to the contests which had
taken place among the inhabitants bordering on the Val de
Chiana, (anciently called the Chesina Palus,) and now one of

the most fertile districts in Italy. It was precisely this river

which gave rise to the famous controversy in the Roman senate,
related by Tacitus, on the proposal for obviating the inundations
of the Tiber by diverting the Chiana into the Arno. The Chiana,
being situated between the Tiber and the Arno, had been alter
nately forced backwards and forwards by the neighbouring popu
lation until had subsided into noxious marsh, pouring out
its surplus waters wherever they could find vent. The result
of the deliberation of the congress was proposition by Cassini
                                                      a
                                                                 a

                                                                          a

· " Memoria sulla Navigazione interna del Milanese," dell' Ingegnere Parca,
Annal., lib. 79.
Almost the whole of the Val di Chiana has been raised by the process of
colmata, or warping, similarly to the practice adopted in the marshes border
ing on the   Humber in this country.
             from five to six years to raise          the  surface           as many feet.
   It takes
Torricelli alone recommended the system of Colmates in 1768. The Grand
Duke Leopold of Tuscany appointed
                                                 commission, at the head of which was
                                                 a
                                                                        ;
                                                                         is
the learned Fossombroni, to direct the operations and on this occasion Fossom-
broni published work, entitled, Memorie Idraulico Storiche sopra la Val di
                          a

Chiana, Firenze 1769, in which the whole system detailed.                                       small but
From experiments made on the depositions of the Ombrone
                                                                                            (a
                                                                              found to be ^V, jVi
rdaVp>id-5*1r°ivf etrh)e  at different periods,  the  deposits were          that this system were
                          height of the water.          to be wished
                                                  It  is

                                                                  :
practised over the whole of the marshes of the Tuscan Maremma, which are

alone computed to amount to 300 square miles the most considerable are the
marshes of Viareggio, Grosseto, Piombino and the Pontine marshes. The
works which were executed by Ximenes in the year 1767, in the marshes of

Grosseto, although magnificent and effective for time, were afterwards ruined
                                                           a

by neglect several attempts have since been made to renew them.
:
                        REPORT ON HYDRAULICS. -- PART II.

and Viviani to confine the Chiana by banks, and so conduct it
to the Arno. In a subsequent meeting, at which Torricelli was
present, the same system was recommended, on the ground that
the rivers Arno, Tiber, and Po were confined by the same means.
   Although nothing important had arisen out of the proceed
ings of the congress of Florence, the attention of philosophers
was excited to discover the true causes of these evils. Much

had been said and written on the rivers of Lombardy, Ferrara,
Bologna *, Tuscany, and other provinces of Italy ; but no one
had undertaken to combine together the facts elicited, by a
careful observation on the rivers themselves, until the meeting
of a second congress at Bologna in the year 1681.

   The Po and the Reno were the rivers that excited the greatest
interest, on account of the absorption of the river Primaro by
the Po, and the blocking up of the Reno by the depositions of
the Ferrara branch, by which the Reno was raised so high as to
cause the bursting of the banks, and the consequent inundation
of the most fertile provinces of the Bolognese. This evil was
greatly increased by the addition of five other torrents to the
mass. Such a scene was well calculated to increase the interest

upon this subject ; hence may be dated the rise of the science
of hydrometry in Italy.
                                                                  ,

The discovery of the law of falling bodies by Galileo, and the
subsequent misapplication of this law to the rivers Bisenzio and
Arnof in opposition to the opinion of Bartolotti, paved the way
to several very important investigations by Castelli, who in
troduced the element of velocity, arising from pressure, into
the calculation of                              of         which     flow in the beds
of rivers. Castelli     thperoqveuda,n--tities      water

1st, That in a river reduced to a state of permanence, the
quantity of water which passes through all its sections in equal
spaces of time will be equal :
2ndly, That the medium velocities in the different sections will

be reciprocally proportional to the amplitude of the sections :

· Delia Salveazione de' Fiume del Bolognese e della Romagna, del M. R. P.
Leonardo Ximenes e del Pietro Paolo Conti : Roma, 1776. Also, Trattata de'
Canali Navigabili del Ab. Antonio Lecchi : Milano, 1776. Also, De' Canali
Navigabili di P. D. Paoli Frisi, 1770.
   t Lettera di Galileo Galilei sopra il Fiume Bitentio, a Raffaello Staccoli.
Bartolotti, an engineer, having projected to shorten the course of the river
sBoinses n:z--io1sbty,  means of a cut or canal, Galileo opposed  it for the following
                        That in two canals of equal height, but   of unequal lengths,   rea
                                                                                         the

velocity of the stream would be the same in both of them. 2ndly, That it is
not the inclination of the bed of the canal, but the surface, that regulates the mo
tion of the water. 3rdly, That the velocities do not follow the ratio of inclination
as Bartolotti asserted, but differ in a variety of ways in similar inclinations,
430 FOURTH REPORT-- 1834.

   3rdly, That if a river, flowing in a rectangular channel with a

certain velocity, be augmented by a flood to double its height,
the velocity of the water will be double ; a principle sub
sequently adopted by Gennete, and disputed so often by the
Italian philosophers. Castelli was well aware of the necessity
of removing the obstacles to the free flow of rivers ; but he
was wrong in his supposition of the effect of sluices, and
in attributing the velocity of the water near the mouths of
rivers to the pressure of the superior waters. His opinions
relative to the effect of rivers in purifying the air, and in pre
venting the increase of the sea-shore opposite Venice, were con
tradicted by Montanari and Guglielmini, who advised the di
version of the rivers from their ancient channels ; and corrected
the evil for a time.

   Torricelli was the first who endeavoured to prove the analogy
subsisting between spouting fluids and rivers, and their accelera
tion on account of the slope of the surface.

    The respect of Viviani for Galileo did not prevent him from
rejecting the ideas of his master as to the effect of shortening
the course of the Bisenzio *. Viviani added several useful ob
servations on the subject.

    Zendrini, in his experiments with the pendulum, discovered
that the velocities in the different parts of the section of the
river Po were nearly proportional to the square roots of the

heights, when the velocities were not very great f.

    The truth of this law has been confirmed by all the experi
ments which have been made with the hydrometrical flask
invented by the Bolognese in the year 1721, in which the quan
tities of water entering in a given time by a small aperture left
open at the top, and collected by sinking the flask successively
to different depths in stagnant as well as running waters, were
at all times nearly in proportion to the square root of the
heights. Independently however of these experiments, the
parabolic law is sufficiently ascertained ; so that in a parabola,
of which the abscisses represent the depth of a river, and a cor
responding semiordinate represents the velocity, all the other
semiordinates will express velocities corresponding with the
heights of their respective abscisses. Again, the space run

   * Opinions are yet divided on the propriety of shortening the courses of
rivers ; but in rivers carrying gravel there can be no doubt.

    Viviani had several striking examples before him of the evil consequences
which had resulted from shortening the course of the Arno, both above and
below Florence ; and his observations upon the rising of the bed of that river
are applicable to all rivers similarly situated.

   t Lcggi, Fenonieni, Regolazioni ed Usi dcllc Acquc Corrcnli, di Bernardo

Zendrini, (Fircnzc, 1770,) cap. v. part. ii. pag. 100.
REPORT ON HYDRAULICS. PART II.  431

through in one second, by a body floating on the surface of a
river, divided by the same parameter, will give the height due to
the velocity of the surface, which, added to the height of the
river, will give the whole effective or equivalent height : the
square root of the product of the equivalent height by the para

meter will give the velocity at the bottom of the section.
   Two thirds of the product of the velocity at the bottom by

the whole equivalent height, minus two- thirds of the product of
the velocity at the surface by the height added to the actual
height, will give the mean velocity.

    Finally, the product of the mean velocity by the actual breadth
and the actual height will give the quantity of water that passes
in one second through the rectangular section .

    Zendrini's observations on the continual rise of the Adriatic
Sea, in confirmation of the opinions of Sabbadini, Montanari, and
Manfredi, and on the prolongation of the whole shore of the Po,
as far as Ancona, and his Report on the diversion of the Ronco
and Montone, rivers near Ravenna, together with the extension
of the sandbanks at the mouths of the different rivers, are
extremely interesting.

    His great experience on this subject led him to conclude that
a harbour ought not to have a turbid river either on its right or
left side within a distance of seven or eight miles.

    As early as the commencement of the eleventh century the
opinions of philosophers coincided very nearly with the theory
that the surface of the Adriatic Sea was continually rising, and
certain indications along its shores seemed to confirm the cor
rectness of these opinions. The cause was generally attributed to
the continual accumulation of the substances brought down by
the rivers and collected on the beach, and which, by prolonging
the shores and contracting the outline, caused an elevation of
the surface of the sea. This explanation, says Paul Frisi, would
be very plausible if the Baltic did not exhibit at one and the
 same time an enlargement of its shores and a depression of its
superficial level ; and if it were not evident that as all seas must
have a common level with respect to each other, the absolute
height of the waters cannot be raised in one without being at the
same time elevated in all the rest. In the Memoirs of the
Academy of Stockholm, Celsius, Dalin, Stembeek, and others
have given a long statement of facts, which prove very clearly
the extension of all the shores of the Baltic Sea*. But what

    * See Mr. Lyell's Geology relative to the Delta of the Po, vol. i. pp. 236, 237 ;
also a paper recently presented by that gentleman to the Royal Society on the
rise of the shores of the Baltic Sea. The following examples in illustration of
 Manfredi's theory are mentioned by Col. Leake : Ilafonisi, an island formerly
432 FOURTH REPORT 18.34.

ever may have been the opinions of philosophers on this subject,
the fact was not known until Manfredi established it. Sabbadini
had given his  oipninhiiosnesinsahyisendtisitcloeudrs/e/  on the Lagunes of Venice.
   Montanari,                                             Mare Adriatico e sua Cor-

rente esaminata, maintained that the rise of the bottom of the
Adriatic Sea was owing, not to the alluvion of the Po, as has
been asserted, but to the sands of the shores of the Mediter

ranean brought by the current which runs from the Straits of
Gibraltar along the African coast, and through the Ionian Seas
into the Adriatic : his conclusions, however, are too fortuitous to

be quoted.
   The observations of Manfredi on the levels of floors of several

ancient buildings at Ravenna, such as the Cathedral, Rotunda
and Church of St. Vital, as compared with the levels of the

neighbouring sea, and which Zendrini afterwards confirmed by
other observations of the same nature, are curious. Zendrini

observed that the rings formerly used to fasten boats to the
quays at St. Mark's Place, are now below the level of the sea ;
that the subterranean church of St. Mark is no longer serviceable,
because it is below water ; that the ground plot of the Piazza is
sometimes overflowed in moderately high tides, although it had
been raised a foot ; that in the island of Capri the whole plat
form of an ancient Roman edifice placed on the sea-shore was
inundated; and he states that similar observations of Donati

along the coasts of Dalmatia gave the same results.
   The observations of Zendrini on the embouchures of rivers in

the Mediterranean apply with equal correctness to all rivers
which empty themselves into inland seas and lakes.

   G randi repeated the experiments of Zendrini ; but although in
his treatise on the motion of running water he professes to fol
low the principles of Galileo and Torricelli, his observations on
rivers indicate that he possessed very little knowledge on that
subject; his dissertations on the river Era and other rivers have
merely a local interest, without adding anything to the science.
The same may be said of the treatises of Cassini and Michelini,
although the latter was the first to show the art of regulating
rivers.
But the treatises of Guglielmini on the measure of running
waters and on rivers are the greatest works of the Italian school
of hydrometry. The publication of these works originated with
XtheII.cotmo minivsessiotingeartse  appointed in the year 1693 by Pope Innocent
                                    the state of the provinces of Bologna, Ferrara,

a peninsula; Moncmvasia, an island formerly the promontory of Minerva; the
Cothon of Carthage, now a swamp separated by the port of Lecheum ; Corinth,
the port of Pataro, and the Catacombs of Alexandria.
           REPORT ON HYDRAULICS. PART II.                  433

and Romagna, with a view to the regulation of the rivers and
the drainage of those districts. Guglielmini was included in the
Commission on the part of the city of Bologna ; and having in
vestigated the whole of the circumstances connected with the
Po and Reno rivers, he published the result of his labours shortly
afterwards. In that Report he confines himself to the subject in
question, by detailing very fully the various projects which had
been proposed to ameliorate the condition of the country and
the rivers which flow through particularly the Po, the Reno,it,
and the Panaro, and he demonstrates the method by which the
difficulties could be overcome. His opinions were questioneda

by several engineers of that period. In his work entitled La

Misura delVAcque Correnti, he adopts the theorems of Castelli
and Torricelli, and founds upon them system of hydraulics in
consistent with experiment, in as much as he makes the velo
city proportional to the square root of the height, and regards
every point in mass of fluid as tending to move with the same
velocity with which would issue from an orifice and asis
                                                      a:
           it

                a

                       it
the velocities are as the square roots of the depths of the
orifices, the greatest velocity must be at the bottom of stream
and the least at the surface, besides continual acceleration ofa

the river as moves. It was in vain that he attempted to

reconcile these principles to facts. But the great work of Gu
glielmini his Natura de' Fiumi, which was published with
notes by Manfredi in the year 1697, and followed by second
part in the year 1712, after his death. The first three chaptersa

contain definitions and general notions on the equilibrium of
fluids, and the origin of fountains the fourth and fifth chap
                                  :

ters relate to the motions of rivers down inclined planes,
with reference to friction and resistance, by which an equili
brium      established between the force of the current and
       is

the resistance of the bed. He states, that the inclination and

velocity of rivers continually diminish in proportion as the
rivers recede from their sources, and that consequently the
power of transporting materials                         --othf atthe
materials themselves diminish ina   and the magnitude ;
                                   corresponding ratio
                                                                : if
there be two rivers of equal velocities, but of unequal masses, the
river which has the greatest mass will have the least inclination
and from data not satisfactory he deduces that the greater the
body of water in rivers, the less will be the inclination of their

beds.

Chapter the 6th relates to the direction of rivers, and to the
difficulty of restraining and regulating their courses and in
                                              ;

                                                if

                                                                 a
series of propositions and corollaries the author demonstrates,
That the direction of rivers necessarily rectilinear not in--
                           is
                           2f
1834.
4t'J4 FOURTH REPORT 1834.

fluenccd by external causes ; --that the inequalities of the soil, to
gether with artificial obstacles which rivers encounter in their
courses, are the causes of the                              --sintuhoastitrieivse,rsanwd hiircrheguclaarrriy
ties which constantly exist in  bends,                   ;
                                 them

gravel preserve their direction with great difficulty, on account
of the               dwehpiocshitiocnosnti;n--uathllayt  take place in          time of
floods  alterations                                      in consequence  the
        by partial                                                              exceed
                                                                         it is

ingly difficult to regulate such rivers by artificial works, but
much less so where rivers run through sand or other homoge

neous beds.

   Chapter the 8th contains several interesting observations re
lative to the junctions of rivers with each other and with the sea.

In times of flood the elevation of the water is less sensible at
the embouchures than above them, but a few inches of elevation

at the embouchure occasions an elevation of several feet in the

river. The velocity also, although stated by Guglielmini to be
greater, is actually less at the embouchure than above it.

   The author finishes this chapter by examining the cases of
rivers joining each other perpendicularly or obliquely, and when
they are subject to the flux and reflux of tides, and consequent
changes in the directions of the embouchures.

   Chapter the 9th treats of the effects resulting from the union
of rivers with each other, and with the sea. In the 1st propo
sition it is stated that if two rivers similar in section and volume
empty themselves separately into the sea, the sum of their sec
tions will be greater than if they entered the sea in one united
bed. The author adduces the sections made of the Reno and
Tecino, affluents of the Po, in the year 1719 as proofs of this
assertion. In proposition the 2nd he states, That two rivers
united in one bed have greater velocity and power of corrosion
of the bed than two rivers running in separate beds, and the
increased effect will not only take place below, but above the
confluence   of  the two rivers ; -- that the
be less in       united than the disunited                  breadth   --alnadstslye,ctrieosnpewctill
            the                                             rivers ;

ing the effects of tides in keeping open the mouths of rivers, that
the water of the sea, which during the flood enters into the beds
of rivers, returning back with the ebb, helps to clean out the bed
and to sweep away the deposits. He has repeated this doctrine
elsewhere, expressing his opinion that so long as rivers could of
themselves keep their mouths open on a flat shore, the agitation
of the tides would prevent any shoals from forming in the trunk
lying above the mouth ; and with regard to the entrance of rivers
into the sea, that the form of the mouth will depend upon the
difference of velocity between the river and tide currents : that the
sediments of the river will settle along the eddy part of the shore
                     REPORT ON HYDRAULICS. -- PART II.                       435

and form sand-banks, which will go on gradually increasing ;
and the river being opposed on one or other side, according to
the direction of the current of tide, will turn  to the right                or left
as may be. Proposition 3 :--Not only will the    depth of the                united
river be increased, but the depths of all the other affluents

likewise.

The remaining principles attempted to be established in this

chapter are :
   1st, That it is improper to unite rivers which carry gravel

with rivers which carry sand ;
   2ndly, That the courses of gravelly rivers should not be short
ened towards their embouchures ;

3rdly, That the corrosions of the borders of united rivers are

inevitable ;

   4thly, That it is better to cause a river carrying gravel to de
posit its gravel by lengthening its course than to join it with
another river carrying sand : that the consequences of such a
junction would be to oblige the greater river to change its direc
tion or to raise its bed in the upper parts.
Chapter the 10th relates to the increase and diminution of
rivers, and the proportions in which they take place. Every
river is subject to variations in the volume of its waters and in
                     of its bed, from natural  and artificial causes.
theItcaispacailtsyo  affected by winds and     tides. An affluent which
enters into a river when its waters are at the lowest state of
depression, will
when the river       maintain a    greAatesrmeallel vartivioenr  of surface  than
                     is highest*.                                may enter   into

a larger one without augmenting the section of the latter.
This apparent paradox is founded on the augmentation of
the velocity of the greater river, and Guglielmini quotes the
absorption of the Ferrara and Panaro branches of the Po by
that river, without any sensible augmentation of its channel :
this doctrine was first published by Castelli. The inutility of
diverting the waters of rivers by means of side cuts for the
purpose of lowering floods, is also insisted upon.
   Chapter the 11th relates to natural and artificial streams, and
the mode of conducting and distributing them for the purposes

of drainage and irrigation. In the former case the author con
cludes, from a variety of reasons, that it is better to unite all the
waters of a region into one grand conduit, than to allow them
to run off by many separate conduits, and vice versa with respect

to irrigation.

sat*isfTahcetortirluythestoafbtlihshisedo, b--serTvhaattiontheseewmastetro rubsehegsenqeuraicllkyeralldoowwend,riavlethrsouinghthneoirt

high than in their low state.

                                                     2F2
4VJ6 FOURTH REPORT -- 1S34.

    Chapter the 1 2th treats of canals, and the precautions neces
sary to supply them with water from rivers and reservoirs, such
as diminishing the force of the waters at their junction with the
canal, fortifying the points of junction, &c. The effects of sluices,
dams, regulators, aqueducts, siphons, and locks are all spoken
of in detail.

    Chapter the 13th relates to the drainage and warping of
 marshes. The first principle is to intercept and prevent the ac
cumulation of water, by diverting it from the borders of the
 marsh, so that by the cessation of the cause, the effect will also
 cease. In this manner the whole of Lombardy was drained*.

    The other principle is by raising the general surface of the
 soil ; by allowing the water to deposit its earthy materials in
 times of floods : this was called colmata, or warping, a practice
 often adopted in Italy, where the rivers have not been allowed to
 raise their beds to an unnatural height above the general surface
 of the adjacent country by means of embankments.

     Chapter the 14th and last, is very important in an engineer
 ing point of view, as it treats of the effects of regulating and
 shortening the courses of rivers. This operation ought never
 to be undertaken without a perfect knowledge of the soil through
 which it is proposed to carry the river. Cuts and shortening
 rivers with gravelly bottoms are rarely attended with success,
 but where the soil is muddy or sandy, such works are more du
 rable. The author adduces the Po, which has established itself
 in the middle of its basin, as an example of the equilibrium
 which its course has attained by the rivers which flow into it on
 both sides. The work of Guglielmini contains much valuable
 information, although, from its numerous contradictions and
 errors, particularly on the formation and transportation of
 stones and gravel, it requires to be consulted with caution.

     The next author on rivers is Zanotti : this writer endeavours
 to determine, by a series of observations, the position which the
 beds of rivers should occupy near the sea, in proportion to the
 superficies of their waters.

    In considering the sections of the Po and Tiber, he was of
 opinion that the acceleration of the waters occasioned by the

 freeness of the outlet in these rivers, extended up the river to a
 considerable distance, and reached to the spot which would be
 struck by a horizontal line drawn from low- water mark. Finally,
 on comparing these observations together in detail, he disco-

    · This was always the principle adopted by the late Mr. Rennie in draining
the fens of Lincolnshire and Cambridgeshire, by means of catchwater drains at
the bases of the surrounding hills ; and by uniting the scattered waters by large
drains, they were conveyed to the sea.
REPORT ON HYDRAULICS. PART If.  437

vered that the reduced slope of the surface in the highest floods,       ; it,
reckoning from the point to which the surface of the sea at low
water reaches to the mouth, was equal to the reduced slope of
the bottom or of the lower superficies of the river, beginning
from the same point, and proceeding to the opposite direction.
His observations generally on rivers are valuable ; but the most
estimable writer, after Guglielmini, on rivers and torrents is Paul
Frisi.

   The work of this author is divided into three parts ; in the first the
author investigates the phaenomena of rivers and torrents which
flow over gravel ; the origin of rivers ; the substances brought
down by them; and the formation and rectification of their beds.
The 2nd chapter treats of the velocity of water from apertures
in vessels according to the theories of Torricelli, Newton, Michel-
lotti, &c. ; and the velocities of rivers and artificial canals whe
ther united or divided ; their declivities, and the distribution of
them according to the principles of Galileo, Castelli, Grandi,
Guglielmini, Gennete" and others : and the third part relates to
rivers which carry sands and mud ; the states of the old and
new beds of rivers, with reference to the projects which had
been advanced for improving the Tiber, Arno, and other rivers
of the Bolognese ; the resistances, whether natural or artificial,
opposed to the free flow of rivers ; the doctrines of different
authors upon this subject; the effects of regurgitations oc
 casioned by dams, weirs, and other obstructions thrown across
 rivers ; and lastly, the phaenomena attendant on rivers entering
 into the sea. An interesting essay on navigable canals com
 pletes the work.

    Frisi, after demonstrating that Guglielmini had been mistaken
 in supposing that the formation of the smaller gravel and sand
 in the beds of rivers was owing to the attrition of the larger
 stones in the upper parts of the courses of rivers, maintained,
 on the contrary, that gravel and sand are original bodies spread
 over the earth through which the rivers traverse ; and, by expe
 riments, determined that the formation of sand in rivers is not
 owing to the attrition of stones against each other, but to varia
 tions in the velocity of the current, which deposits the materials
 according to the greater or less intensity of its force.

    Viviani and Belgrado were of the same opinion. Belgrado ob
 served that stones torn from the mountains are precipitated
 down their declivities, turning for the greater part of the time
 on their own centres ; that they continue to roll along in the
 same manner in the beds of torrents, until, the slopes becoming
 less, they afterwards slide along the bottom, rubbing against
 and are scattered to and fro by the impetuosity of the torrent
438 FOURTH REPORT 1834.

and that in consequence of the rolling and sliding motion they
acquire in their descent, there can be little or no abrasion of
the surface. Grandi, in considering the dam of Era, and com
paring the specific gravities of the granite in the water, and of
the water itself, inferred that the transverse impetuosity of the
waters was sometimes sufficient to raise the gravels from the
bottom, and to throw them on the edges of the dykes.
   Besides his work on rivers and torrents, Frisi particularly
distinguished himself in the Bolognese and Ferrara controversy,
in which his plan for the rectification of the rivers of those
provinces in            was approved of by all the
then present.  17I6t0  was just at this period while         mathematicians

                                                              Frisi was en
gaged in the Bolognese controversy, that the work of M. Gen
nete- made its appearance ; and on comparing together the
observations made on rivers by both parties, it appeared to
Frisi that there was no sensible height even when there is a
considerable augmentation of water, and therefore, that the
velocity of the water increases sensibly in the same ratio as its

quantity.                       of Gennete" were,
The                             be added to another
1st,   pIfrotpwoosirtiivoenrss                       during  the time  of its
flood, the river will experience no sensible rise in its surface j
   2ndly, That if from the same river two branches be taken,
its surface will not be sensibly lowered.
These doctrines had been partly advanced with regard to ca
                                                     Corradi, but Gen
nals   by Castelli, Cassini, Guglielmini, and
       was the first to apply them to rivers.        It had been stated
nete*

by Frisi that the river Reno received the Samoggia without any
perceptible difference in the amplitude of its sections, and that
therefore it might receive other torrents without any sensible
augmentation. Doctrines so extraordinary, and at variance with
the received opinions on this subject, excited many discussions
in Italy. Gennetd's experiments were tried at Ferrara in the
year 1 762, and at Rome in the year following, and again repeated
at Ferrara in the year 1766, but with results entirely different;
he, however, clearly proved that the dissimilarity was principally
owing to the different modes of experimenting, although the
apparatus used at Ferrara resembled Gennete's very nearly.
The recipient was 199 feet in length and 7 inches in width,
and the result was, that the first tributary stream (equal in sec
tion to the recipient) occasioned an augmentation in height of
one half, and on introducing a second tributary of the same
section, the augmentation was double ; it was conceived, there
fore, that Gennete had either erroneously stated his case, or
the effect was due to the increase of velocity occasioned by
· RETORT OX HYDRAULICS. PART II.                            439

the pressure of the tributary waters against the water of the

recipient.
But, besides the law of acceleration, there remained other
elements to take into account, one of which related to the mo
tion arising from the junction of two or more rivers.
   In the Memoirs of the Academy of Sciences for the year 1 738,

M. Pi tot has used the same principle to determine the mean di
rection which the waters of the two rivers will take when freely
united together, and this he does according to the resultant of
the collision of hard bodies, where the same quantity of motion
is invariably preserved ; and from this hypothesis he draws as
its consequent that the common velocity of the united rivers is
equal to the quantities of motion in the two separate rivers di
vided by the sum of those quantities of water. Grandi has en
deavoured to decide by the same principles of the composition
and resolution of forces, not only the direction, but the absolute
velocity of the waters which either unite or divide. For this
purpose he constructed a float which gave the resultant of the
two confluences, from which he concluded that the course of

the river would naturally take an intermediate direction; but, if
the banks of the recipient remained firm, its stream would pre
serve the same direction as before, increasing, however, its for
mer velocity by a part, in proportion to the velocity of the tri
butary stream, as the cosine of inclination of the river is to the

radius : whence it would follow, that if the thread of water in

the tributary stream should second by its direction the thread
of water in the recipient, in making with      it it,
                                                        isas generally the
case, a very acute angle, the velocity in the common bed would
          to the sum of the velocities of the
be equal                                       recipient and affluent
streams.   If this principle were admitted,        would follow, that

the sections of the receiving stream could not be considerably
augmented by the junction of the tributary, for this reason, that
the quantity of water augmenting, the velocities would be com
pounded of this augmentation, and the flow of the current be

more rapid than was before.
Guglielmini, in the seventh chapter of his work, in considerit
ing the celebrated phenomenon of the Po (of Venice), which
receives the branch of the Ferrara and the Panaro without anya
enlargement of its bed, has stated in general that smaller river
                                               a

might enter into larger one without increasing either its
breadth or height; and he was of opinion that this might happen
without any lateral dispersion, because the whole of the in
creased body continued in motion by following the direction of
the thread of the stream. On the hypothesis that all the sections

were effective, and that the velocities before and after the con
440                   FOURTH REPORT -- 1834.                ·

fluence of the two rivers were as the square roots of the actual
heights, the cubes of the heights would be as the squares of
the quantities of water which are discharged in an equal time

by the sections.

   Manfredi deduced that the Reno, which added -jT part of the
whole quantity to the Po, could not raise the height of the Po
more than T'T part ; but, reflecting afterwards that some expe
riments made on adding or subtracting the water of a drain to
and from the Panaro, occasioned no difference in the elevation

of the surface of that river, he concluded that the elevation of
the Po must be very small for any augmentation which the
waters of the Reno could cause in its stream*. The fatal conse

quences which had arisen from dividing the Rhine into so many
branches from the frequent bursting of the embankments which
maintained them above the adjacent lands, and the continual

expenses entailed by them, necessarily excited great interest.
The great Rhine divides itself near Emmerik into twobranches,
nearly equal to each other, viz., the Waal and the Rhine : the
bed of each of these branches is nearly as large as that of the
whole river before its division, and when the waters rise they
are at an equal height in both. The second branch divides itself
again towards Arnheim to form the Issel, which has nearly the
same section as that of the Rhine.

The first division of all the waters of the Rhine was begun
under the Roman generals Drusus and Corbulo : many subdivi
sions were made in subsequent ages. This great multiplicity of
channels, although productive of advantages to Holland, occa
sioned many fatal consequences : the waters, divided into so
many branches, lost the rapidity and strength necessary for
them to push forward the alluvial matter, occasioned a conti
nual rising of the bottom, rendered the draining of the waters
from the adjacent lands more difficult, increased the expense of
the embankments, and augmented the damages over the exten
"sive lands when the
                      dykes broke.     which  lies between  Rotter
      To secure that  part of Holland

"dam, Utrecht, Amsterdam, and the ocean, it was proposed in

1754," says Frisi, to form a cut, with sixteeen sluices, in the
Leek, which is another branch of the Rhine, by which part of
the waters would be discharged into the Meruva, which is the

junction between the Waal and the Meuse. M. Gennete- op -
posed the project on the ground that it would not have dimi

nished the height of the floods, but that it would have been pre

    * See Major-General Garstin's Translation of Paul Frisi's Work on Rivers
and Torrents.
                REPORT ON HYDRAULICS. -- PART II.  4-11

ferable to have united all the waters of the Great Rhine into the

ancient branch of the Issel, and thus have conducted them by
the shortest direction to the sea, because by the union of the
waters their rapidity would have been increased, while the am
plitude of the sections would have continued the same, and the
evils complained of would have been avoided : he supports his
opinion by several examples of the junction of the Mayne and
Moselle rivers with the Rhine, without any sensible increase of
section in the Rhine before or after the junction ; but, in order
to satisfy himself of this apparent anomaly, he caused an
artificial river to be constructed at Leyden, in the year 1755,

which was supplied with water by means of a vessel, five or six

feet in height, and connected by sluices with six other small

stre"amThse. bottom of the recipient and of the tributaries had a
slope of T2\j5 ; and he observed all the variations that occurred
either in adding the tributaries or in retrenching their streams."
The results of these experiments were, that when a stream,
equal to half the water in the recipient, was added, and after

wards another stream equal to another half, the quantities
of water in the recipient being successively as 1, 1£, and 2,
the height of the water in the recipient was apparently the
same, while the velocities and quantities of the fluid in
creased in the same proportion, viz., 1, 1£, 2. Again, when
the augmentations to the quantity in the recipient were in the
jj, i,ratios of 3, 4, 5, 6, and 7, the increase in the height of the water
in the recipient was only Jy, g?, - Tj, and        respectively.
By a contrary proceeding he let off the six tributary streams
successively, and found the diminution of the height of the wa
ter in the recipient to prevail in the same proportion as the

augmentations.
   Having witnessed these apparent anomalies in the junction of
rivers, it occurred to me to repeat the experiments of Gennete" ;
and having provided a suitable apparatus, consisting of a wooden
trough ten feet in length, and six inches in width and eight inches
in depth, together with troughs of similar dimensions let into

Ithe sides of the inner trough at angles of 30 degrees, and fur

nished with suitable openings and valves, caused one and two
streams respectively of water to be let into the main stream
from equal apertures and under equal and constant pressures,
from a cistern of two feet internal dimensions every way, and the
following Table shows the results :
4*2 FOURTH REPORT 1834.

Experiments made on Water, August 9th, 1834.

                                       S3 11             .5    1             in
                                                            2
   Position of                         If!      til                          itional depth of.5---            ft"
Trough in De                                                                    with two open,                -c-
grees of Inclina                       Si!      111                                 compared with
                                                                                                  S
         tion.                                                                                 2
                                                                                                         ?
                                                                                                             S
                                                                       t           « -fl
                                                                    <i.So
                                                         Q£.S

Trough level       98 7 65 4 3 2 I     Inches.  Inches.  Inches.1-  Inches.  Inches.
Inclined "                              1-25     1.75      2-375                                             116251-25
                                           175             1-375       125       .625
                 10                       .625  i-         1-125       125       .50
                                          .50                          125       150
                                           150     1875     1-         125
                                           150                1937     1187      150
                                           150     17ft      .875      1125
                                           150     .75       .812      1120      1137
                                           148     .087      .805      1130
                                           144                175      1160      1375
                                           143     1625       173      1160      1312
                                                   .620                          .325
                                                   .610                          131

                                                   1600                          130

                                                   1590

The results were, 1st, That when the artificial river or re
                                                     required two streams of equal
cipient was exactly level,                      it

                                                                     1

                                                                                                  a
magnitude to raise the main stream to double of its original
height: 2ndly, That when the artificial river or recipient was
set at angles of inclination of from to 10 degrees, sensible
diminution took place in the altitude of the main stream, as
well as in the ratio of increase in the tributaries, corroborating
in some degree the experiments of Gennete\
                                    a
   In addition to the Italian collection, there appeared, at dif

ferent intervals, variety of works on the motions of rivers by
Mariotte, Hermanus, Michelini, Michelotti, Fontana, Poleni,

Statlerius, Ximenes, &c. In the year 1779 the Italian collection

was first made known in this country by the Abbe Mann, in a
valuable Treatise on Rivers and Canals, in the Philosophical
Transactions. The author recapitulates the different doctrines,
propounded by Torricelli and others, on the motions of rivers,
from the laws of their action, to the establishment of their beds.
He adopts the principles of Guglielmini in almost every instance
relative to the accelerations and retardations of rivers, and shows,
according to the principles laid down by Leibnitz and Euler,
that, in order to render the velocity of a current everywhere
equal, the bed should have the form of curve, along which
                                                         a
                                                                  a
                                                                                                              a
moving body should recede from given point, and describe

spaces everywhere proportionate to the times.
            REPORT ON HYDRAULICS. PART II.             4W

The author gives several practical rules relative to the junc
tion of and derivations from rivers, whether with each other or
with the sea ; and, in the fourth section of his treatise, he de

tails a series of experiments to determine the different velocities
of the same floating body, moved uniformly by an equal force
in different depths of water, the results of which are, that the
different velocities of the floating bodies are in an inverse ratio
of the respective depths of the water in which they float with an

equal impulsive force.
The author gives the declivities of several rivers in France and
in Flanders, such as

The Seine, from Paris to Havre, which he states to be
The Loire                                              ttW
The Rhone, from Besancon to the Mediterranean, '
stated to be one of the most rapid in the world,
or double of the mean declivity of the rivers in
                                                       2<T2U*

   Flanders                                       _,
The Ypres in Flanders to Newport
The Lys and Scheldt                                     yjW*
The canals
                                                       tgtv

                                                       tostw
444 FOURTH REPORT 1834.

The following Table is considered an approximation                 to the
                                 actual state of Rivers.
                                                                      ahD
Distinctive Attributes of the             ?1      II      II
  various Kinds of Rivers.                °B              III
                                              Pf . 2£

    Channels wherein the resist-"                                         U
ance from the bed, and other
obstacles, equal the quantity                 180 64
of the current acquired from
the declivity ; so that the wa
ters would stagnate therein,
were it not for the compression
and impulsion of the upper and
back waters.

 /\Artificial canals in the Dutch

and Austrian Netherlands.

   Rivers in low flat countries,"             120    10
full of turns and windings, and
of a very slow current, subject

Jto frequent and lasting inun- j

dations.

    Rivers in  most countries  tahnadt"]
are a mean      between flat

fhilly, which have good currents              u 80   15 * It'll V  *i

but are subject to overflow; also
the upper parts of rivers in flat

countries.

   Rivers in hilly countries                  2; 55  21*           3i
with a strong current and sel
dom subject to inundations ;
also all rivers near their sour

ces have this declivity and ve
locity, and often much more.

    Riversin mountainous coun-"               ,10 30 an'ai)
tries having a rapid current                  24 50
                                              15 SO
Jand straight course and very

rarely overflowing.

    Rivers in their descent from "
among mountains down into

Jthe plains below, in which

plains they run torrent-wise.

    Absolute torrents  among 1
mountain?.
        REPORT ON HYDRAULICS. -- PART II.                                           445

   In the year 1823 a new collection, or rather continuation, of
the Trattato was published at Bologna, in six volumes, in which
the papers relating to rivers, are, first, An elegant dissertation
on the Natural Phenomena of Rivers, by Count Mengiotti; and
secondly, An Exposition of the Experiments which have been
made by different authors to arrive at the true theory of running
waters, by means of various instruments, such as the float, the

pendulum, the wheel, &c. Thirdly, A confirmation of the doc
trines of Castelli with regard to the ratio of Increase by Tribu
taries : and remarks on the inutility of diversions in rivers, as ad
duced by the diversions from the Po, the Rhine, and other rivers,
by Guglielmini and Gennete\ The effects of regurgitations
in obstructing the free flow of rivers are quoted from different
authors and illustrated by experiment, more or less confirmatory
of the opinions of Guglielmini.
Volume the second, contains papers by De Lorgna on the In
undation of the River Adige ; the prolongation of Rivers into the
Sea, and the confining of their channels ; the effects of Affluents

and Diversions. -- A paper, by Zuliani, on the advantages and

disadvantages attending the expansion of rivers at their embou
chures ; the number and direction of the streams necessary to
maintain the water in its proper channel, and to resist the oppo
sition of winds and waves. The author quotes many examples
in illustration of his theory, but concludes that the determination
of the  oqfuessctieionnce.i--n aAlmsoa,theamaletaicranled  point of view is beyond
                                                            paper on the motion     the
reach                                                                               and

measure of running water, by Tadini. The author adopts the
usually received theory of the velocity of running water, which
he reduces to expressions, and makes the relation of the velo
city at the surface and bottom of a torrent to be as 1 : + O'OOIG;
he states that in the case of a river such as the Po, of which the

inclination, when the experiment was made, was as 0-000214

metre per metre, the velocity at the surface and bottom is very
nearly alike, and that in similar cases the velocity is small and
the surface nearly parallel to the bed. The notion, therefore, that
the velocity of a river increases from the surface to the bottom
as the square roots of the depths, is erroneous.
   The remaining chapters of Tadini 's treatise are devoted to an
examination of the theory of the measurement of running water

through close and open channels according to the velocity and
amplitude of the sections, with due allowance for obstacles ; he
shows also the modes adopted by the different provinces in Italy,
in the measurement of running water, and the discrepancies
resulting therefrom, and concludes with a variety of experi
ments on the expenditures of orifices and rectangular channels,
446 FOURTH REPORT 1834.

but more particularly on the canal of Martesana, in which the
approximation to the parabolic theory is very close. In allusion
to the fluidity of water he states, that from accurate experiments

jvtsttwhich had been made on the inclination of the Lake of Como

towards its outlet, the sensibility was found to be
    The treatise of Tadini is followed by a valuable practical pa

per on the measurement of running water, reduced to the pro
vincial measures of Italy and according to an extensive para
bolical table appended.

    Lastly, this volume contains papers by Masetti, on the Theory
and Practice of the different Instruments (tachimetri idraulici)
which have been invented for the purpose of measuring the
velocity of running water by Castelli, Guglielmini, Ceva, Grandi,
Pitot, Mann, Brouckner, Woltmann, Saverien, Ximenes, Lecchi,
Michelotti, Leslie, and Venturoli. He divides them into two
classes, floating and fixed instruments, and demonstrates, both
theoretically and practically, that the fixed instruments give
the surest results ; in general all of them indicated, in a greater
or less degree, the diminution of velocity towards the bottom.
Masetti's conclusions are, that, for measuring the velocity of the
surface of rivers, the floating instrument or balls of Castelli is
the simplest and best. Secondly, that of the fixed instruments,
the sliding rod of Bonati, and the pendulum of Guglielmini,
improved by Venturoli, are best.

   A second paper, by Masetti, is devoted to the examination of

the different states of running water through orifices and rect-
tangular channels, according to the parabolic tables of Prony
and Eytelwein, calculated for different latitudes. The author
quotes the experiments of Newton, Borda, Bossut, Dubuat,
Mariotte, Michelotti, Navier, Hachette, Venturoli, &c.

    Volume the third, contains a paper by Fossombroni on the
celebrated Val di Chiana, and the systems of Warping and
Drainage which have been practised in it at different periods.
This volume also contains papers by the same author on
the distribution of Alluvions, on the Draining the Pontine
Marshes, and on rendering the river Arno navigable by means
of Jetties and Contractions.

    Volume the fourth, contains several valuable papers on Canals,
by Lecchi, Ferrari, Bruschetti, and Parea, including the origi
nal letters and reports concerning the early navigations and
canals of Italy.

    Volume the fifth, is principally occupied by a translation from
the French of Borgnis Sur les Machines Hydrauliques, and two
papers by Magistrini and Masetti on the action and reaction of
water on hydraulic machines.
REPORT ON HYDRAULICS. PART II.  447

    The sixth and last volume, contains the experiments and con
clusions of Bonati in opposition to those of Gennete", on the
Methods of Measuring the Expenditure of Rivers and of Canals
of Irrigation adopted by the different provinces of Italy ; and in
which the author, after showing the discrepancies which exist
between them, gives the preference to the Milanese method.

   A paper by Morri, on the Navigation of Faenza, and some

unsatisfactory experiments on the inclination, velocity, and pro
duct of the river Po, together with several observations of minor
importance on the rivers Reno, Tiber, Brenta, and Velino, con
clude the new collection. Such may be considered to be the
present state of hydraulic science in Italy. In rendering an
account of its progress it is impossible to withhold the just
tribute which is due to the Italians, namely, that of having been
the first to establish hydraulic science upon anything like true
principles.

     Progress and Present State of Hydraulics in France,
                           Germany, and England.

   The writers included under the above title may be considered
to consist of two classes, viz. theoretical and practical.

   The first have confined themselves to a purely speculative con
sideration of the subject, in extending the chain of geometrical
truths without contributing anything to the real progress of
the science.

    The last have endeavoured by observation and experiment to
arrive at practical inferences.

   Mariotte belongs more properly to the latter class. His
treatise on the motion of water, accompanied by an immense
number of experiments, in the year 1728, has greatly contri

buted to perfect the science.
    Pitot demonstrated, that in open channels friction diminished

in proportion to the diminution of the surfaces in the inverse
ratio of the homologous sides ; and that the friction of water
moving in tubes at equal velocities, in relation to the volume of
water, is in the inverse ratio of the diameters.

   Couplet illustrated this principle very clearly in his experi
ments, although his deductions from them were incorrect.

   Varignon contented himself with reducing the opinions of
Guglielmini to geometrical forms.

   Belidor followed the steps of Guglielmini in his great work
on Hydraulic Architecture.

   Bossut was the first to follow the steps of the Italian school
by combining theoretical with experimental investigation. His
448 FOURTH REPORT 1834.

admirable work on Hydrodynamics shows abundant proofs of the
great sagacity with which he investigated every question relative
to the motions of waters through orifices and pipes ; but his
experiments on artificial canals are unsatisfactory from his hav
ing omitted the consideration of the depth.
The investigations of Bernoulli seem to have formed the
groundwork of the French school ; for although he adopted
the opinion of Guglielmini, with regard to the analogy between
the motion of a river and the motion of a fluid escaping from a
vessel, yet his theory of the law of the velocity, however absurd
its application to the gradations of velocity in a river, is correct.
Although the science of hydrodynamics had acquired a high
degree of perfection at this period, it was nevertheless confined
to the hypothesis of the parallelism of filaments, in which all the
             of the same filament   move in one and the same direction.
pItoiwntass   desirable to express  the motion from a given point in a
fluid in any direction. This problem was resolved by D'Alem-
bert, who discovered equations on two principles, namely,
that a rectangular canal, taken as a fluid mass, is in eqnilibrio,
and that a portion of a fluid, in changing its position, preserves
the same volume when the fluid is incompressible, or dilates
according to a given law when the fluid is elastic. This pro
found and ingenious investigation was published in his Essai
sur In Resistance des Fluides in the year 1752, and afterwards
perfected in his Opuscules Matheniatiques.
Euler, in his Memoires des Academies de Berlin et de St. Pe-
tersbourg, and La Grange, in the year 1781, exhausted all the
resources of geometry for the same object,    but
plicable result. It was not until the year  1781,  without any ap
                                                   when M. Bossut
published his Traite" Thdorique et Experimental, that the theory
of hydrodynamics was made subservient to experiment.

   M. Bossut divides his work into two volumes, theoretical and
experimental : the first explains the general principles of hydro
statics and hydraulics according to the previously established
theory ; the second contains a vast number of experiments on
practical hydraulics ; on the motion of water through orifices,

pipes, and rectangular canals.
In the case of a rectangular canal of 105 feet in length, a con
siderable difference between the natural and artificial expendi
tures, arising from the friction of the sides of the canal and of
the atmosphere, was found to prevail: also a very considerable
swelling or rise of the water between the two extremities of the
canal ; but without any diminution of the expenditure in a given
time, although the reverse is the case in pipes. He also found
that with the same initial velocity of the fluid, canals which are
       REPORT ON HYDRAULICS. -- PART II.                   449

inclined pass off a greater quantity of water than horizontal
canals : this is illustrated by a great many experiments on the
velocities of water issuing from openings under variable and in
variable pressures and inclinations of from three inches to eleven

feet.

The experiments were repeated upon a larger scale in a canal
of 600 feet in length, and with nearly similar results, namely,
that the velocity augmented with the inclination. There were,
however, observed two distinct velocities, viz., the velocity of
projection as the fluid issued from the orifices, and the invariable
velocity which established itself inequilibrio with the resistances.
When the canal had scarcely any inclination below a tenth part
of its length, there existed little or no uniformity between the
primitive and permanent velocity. M. Bossut attempts to make
several applications of his experiments to rivers ; among others,
to the Beuvronne, which he found to have an inclination of
jTj'sff nearly, the same as the Seine at Paris *, although the
velocity of the Beuvronne, as compared with the velocity of the
Seine, was as 36 to 100, and the quantity of water passed
through the respective sections was as 1 to 278 ; from which he
deduced that with equal inclinations the greatest quantities of
water have the greatest velocities, but that the velocities do not
augment in the ratio of the quantities of water ; hence the
reason, according to him, that when two rivers unite into one,
the capacity of the channel of the united river is always less than
the sum of the capacities of the minor rivers taken conjointly :
these minor rivers may also have different inclinations and velo
cities than the united river. He differs in some respect from
the principles of Ge»net6,        agrees with him in the
of derivations from rivers,  but  very properly refers to  inutility
                             and
                                                           M. Du-

buat for more precise information on the subject.
   Inspired by the perusal of Bossut's work, Dubuat endeavoured

to investigate the subject de novo, by considering, that if water
was perfectly fluid, and received no impediment from the surface
over which it moved, it would be accelerated in the same man
ner as bodies running down inclined planes ; but as this effect
was found not to take place, he concluded that there existed a
certain degree of retardation arising from the friction of the
channel or the viscosity of the water, and that when water ran
uniformly in any channel whatever, the accelerating force was
equal to the sum of the resistances. This principle, as we have
seen, had been long known in Italy. Encouraged by this

* According to later observations the inclination of the Seine varies from

1834.                        2g
450 FOURTH REPORT 1834.

apparent discovery, Dubuat endeavoured to render the experi
ments of Bossut conformable to and in the year 1779 pub
lished his Principes Hydrauliqiies.
                                 a

                                       it,
   Dubuat felt, however, that his theory required further elucida
tion, and having undertaken more extensive series of experi
ments, published the result in three volumes in the year 1786*.

   The first two volumes treat of the uniform and variable mo

tions of water in rivers, canals, and pipes the origin of rivers,;
the establishment of the beds, and the effects of dams, sluices,

bridges, reservoirs, and fountains the navigation of rivers and
                                 ;

canals, and the resistance of fluids.
   The last volume treats of the mechanical properties of aetherial
fluids as affected by heat. Dubuat had been long sensible of
the unsatisfactory state of the theory of the motions of rivers
and the difficulty which surrounded the discovery of true
                ;

                  a

                             it
                                                   :

                                                                         ;a

                                                                                                       ;

                                                                                is

                                                                                                          ;
                                                                                                         a

                                                                                                             a
                                                                                                     by
theory, conceiving that every river ran with an uniform velocity
peculiar to itself, and that the velocity in the middle was greatest.
He believed that the formation of bends in them was owing to
obstacles that the development of their curves was in propor
tion to the mean radius and having traced geometrically the cir
cumstances of his hypothesis, he had recourse to analyses, out of
which he formed equations applicable to practice and having
observed frequent changes in rivers from floods and other causes,
he concluded, that was easy to find the expenditure of river in
any part of its course by calculating the annual produce of the
rains which fall upon the surface of the surrounding country,
deducting certain proportion (^th) for filtration, evaporation,
&c. Hence the total expenditure of river deduced                                                                the

product of its mean section and mean velocity. The author ap
plied his principles to the river Seine he examined different
cases of the expenditures of water, and added new expressions
for each to his formula of uniform motion and in the case of

great rivers which are difficult to submit to experiment, he as
similated their motions to the motions of fluids through conduit

pipes.
   In commenting             upon the experiments of Bossut, he says,
"  The experiments             which occasioned the greatest difficulties

were those on rectangular and trapezium canals, in as much as
                                                                d1

                                                                                   it
was found very difficult to render the motion of the current uni
form but we have been amply recompensed by the experiment
which we had occasion to make on the diminution of the velocity·
          ;
       Principet  <f HydrauUque  vtrififo par un grand nombre    Experiences faites
par Ordre du             leGouvernementOuvrage dans lequel on trailedu Mouvement uni-
                             ;

forme et varU de VEau dans Its Rivieres, let Cananx, et les     Tus/aux  de Con-
duite, SfC. par M. Chevalier Du Buat.
             :
               REPORT ON HYDRAULICS.-- PART II.                 451

of a uniform current, reckoning from the surface to the bottom,

and by very curious observations on the mode in which the
water corrodes the bottom, according to the kinds of soil, such

as gravel, sand, and clay, which constitute it."
After recapitulating the various principles laid down in hia
first edition relative to the effect of bridges, sluices, aque
ducts, &c., he develops the fundamental principles of uni
form motion, the causes which create, and the resistances which

affect it, which latter he makes proportional to the squares of the
velocities ; he gives a formula for uniform motion in any channel,
and then shows by experiment and by analyses the causes of va
riation, what amount is due to friction, and what to adhesion or
viscosity. By this means the law of motion is developed from
infinite velocities to its total cessation. These elements deter

mined, he examines the nature of the different beds over which
rivers run, whether natural or artificial ; the effects of floods or
the affluents of rivers, shortenings, swellings, derivations ; the
forms most proper for canals, the piers of bridges ; and illustrates
the whole by a great variety of experiments, which are extended
to the resistance of fluids.

Dubuat values the effect of viscosity at 0-3 of an inch :

the mobility of water he limits to 10000o0 of the inclination, and

considers axjooo to be the smallest possible inclination that can

be given to a canal to produce sensible motion. He cites several
experiments made by him on an artificial canal with an inclina
tion of -jjj-1^ which gave only a velocity of 6 inches per second,

whilst in a drainage canal with an inclination of ^^ the velocity
was only 7 inches per second, and in a part of the river Hayne

having an inclination of ^^ the velocity was 10 inches per se
cond, so that  t"heitviesloicmitpyowssaisblgeretaotersetaswonithagthaeinsletasftacintcs.li"natiTohne.
Dubuat adds,

anomalies which prevail throughout the whole of Dubuat's work
render many of his conclusions very doubtful. The principles
upon which Dubuat founds his theory of uniform motion are:
   lstly, That water is composed of molecules perfectly spherical,
hard, and polished, but gifted with a certain degree of tenacity ;

   2ndly, That rivers cannot run without a certain degree of in
clination in their surface ;

3rdly, That when the mean velocity of a river is uniform, the
accelerating force is equal to the resistance of the bed ;

   4thly, That it is the tendency of every mass of water to form
its own bed by filling up the inequalities of the bed itself ;
   5thly, That the surface of this bed consists of an assemblage

of molecules or globules, ove2rgw2hich the other globules glide,
452 FOURTH REPORT 1834.

and from which results a resistance proportional to the square
of the velocity with small velocities, and diminishing to nothing
in high velocities, the relation between the velocity and inclina

tion being expressed by V = ----=            M-

   6thly, That the resistance which the whole mass experiences
from the friction of a part of it against the bed, is in the direct
ratio of the bed, and inversely as the section ;
7thly, That each molecule experiences a resistance in pro
portion to its distance from the bed ;
8thly, That these velocities taken conjointly produce a mean
velocity, which leads to the following general expression :
y= 297fyr--01)
                                        0.3(vr_.01).

   M. Dubuat considers that the amount of friction being pro
portional to the extent of surface, and the circle containing the
least perimeter, that figure is preferable for pipes on account of

presenting less friction, but that rectangular figures are preferable
for aqueducts, and trapeziums for rivers, from the nature of the
channel and the velocity in all cases being sensibly proportional
to the square root of the mean radius of the bed : it follows that
a trapezium in which the breadth at the bottom is § of the
height of the water, and the slope of the sides £ of the depth, will
give the least resistance.

   The following are the results of his experiments :

                                        Inches.

Fine gravel                             4 per second.
Middling ditto                          7 ditto.
...Large ditto                          12 ditto.
                                        36 ditto.
Gravel of the size of an egg

Hence the reason why in the channels of rivers there is necessarily
a relation between the tenacity of the soil and the velocity of their
currents ; and in general, if we call q the relation to the breadth
--and deprth
of a channel,   we shall  have r =           +      and r =    v-  2;

                                          q       2          q+

or if the depth be undetermined and the breadth be finite, we

shall have r = -- ; and, vice versd, if the depth be finite and the

breadth undetermined, we shall have r = A. So that in rivers

in which the width is very great in proportion to the depth, we
may without any sensible error take the depth for the mean ra
dius, and in this case their mean velocities for equal inclinations
                REPORT ON HYDRAULICS. -- PART II.                                                    453

are as the square roots of their depths. We have, therefore,
formulae for calculating the different cases (two of the data
being given,) of the breadth, depth, mean radius, velocity, and
inclination, derived from a table of experiments on trapeziums
and rectangular canals, on the canal of Jard and the river
Hayne. In order to facilitate the use of these tables the late
Professor Robison reduced them for his Mechanical Philoso
phy* : they have since been greatly enlarged by Mr. Laurie of
Glasgow, but are now in a great measure superseded by the
more accurate researches of Eytelwein.
For thecurvesand salient angles of rivers, and during permanent
and periodical floods, the author endeavours to establish theories
which have no relation to the actual state of things ; but it results
from his observations that an inclination of xjjj^cy onty produces

on account of bends a velocity due to jy^^. In applying his
formula of uniform motion to the course of rivers, he compared
the velocities of the Seine and Loire in their mean state : he
found that the mean inclination of the Seine was 1 metre for
100 toises, or j-^^ ; ^at 'ts mean depth was 3 feet 7 inches, and
its mean velocity 25 inches per second ; and as the theoretical
velocity of an  inclination   of
of 25 inches,   the excess        73^ gave     26 inches 10 lines instead
                             was                by friction and the bend
                                   occasioned
of the river. In the Loire the inclination was 2 metres per 100
toises, or yj-Vff' *^e mean depth 34 inches ; but the velocity due to
the depth was 38 inches per second, consequently Ty was lost
by friction and adhesion ; the actual velocity being 35 in 6
lines.
In regard to the velocity, Dubuat may be said to have dis
covered the following laws :

   1st, In small velocities, the velocity in the axis is less than
that at the bottom ;
2nd, This ratio diminishes as the velocity increases, and in
very great velocities approaches to the ratio of equality j
3rd, Neither the magnitude of the channel nor its slope has
any influence in changing this proportion while the mean velo
city remains the same, whatever be the nature of the bed ;
4th, When the velocity in the axis is constant, the velocity
at the bottom is also constant, and is not affected by the bottom
of the river or the magnitude of the stream.
In some experiments the depth was thrice the width, and in
others the reverse, without any change in the ratio of the velo
cities. Another most important fact discovered by him
·                                                                                                    that

                                                                                                is,
      See an excellent article on Hydrodynamics in Brewster's Edinburgh En-

cijcloptedia.
451 FOUllTH REPORT -- 1834.

the mean velocity in any pipe or open stream is an arithmetical
mean between the velocity in the axis and the velocity at the
sides of the pipe or bottom of the open channels.

   Let V be the mean velocity, v the velocity at the axis, u the

- --velocity of the bottom :                      ;
        u <s/v- 1* and V = --

       also v = (v^V^y+ i)a and v = (StT+ l)*

     V=(*/u-*)* + i)

  - \f - i -M = ( */v

i -Also v -u= 2 */ V --
                     andV=(^M+"i)s+i

                                             and « = (· V         i)4.

                     and v -- V = V -- w = */V                                      ±;

that is, the difference between these velocities increases in the
ratio of the square roots of the mean velocities diminished by a
small constant quantity. The place of the mean velocity in mo
derate velocities is about £th or £th of the depth from the bottom;
in very great velocities it is higher. (See Dubuat's Table of Velo

cities, also Robison's Mechanical Philosophy and Theory of
Rreivndeersr.)theTihreareppalricea, thioonweevxetrr,emaneolymadlieosubitnfutlh.eseItprisincuinpnleescewsshaircyh
to enter into detail of Dubuat's method of rendering rivers na
vigable by increasing their breadth or by diminishing their incli
nations, nor of the different cases of the motions of canals for

irrigation or drainage, and the effect of obstruction, such as
bridges, sluices, dams, &c. ; they have been investigated very

fully by Professor Robison and by M. Le Creulx*.
Such is a brief outline of Dubuat's workf, ingenious in many
respects and abounding with new views and valuable suggestions ;
but whoever has had occasion to investigate the uncertain mo
tions of rivers will find that the analogies attempted to be derived
from the motions of water in pipes and artificial channels are
extremely vague. His formula of the uniform motion of water,
modified as it is by contraction and resistances, approximates
very nearly to reality. In all cases his theory of the effects of
curves is quite contrary to nature, and this he acknowledges in
reference to several experiments in the Seine and Marne rivers.
His application of his theorem of the expenditure, velocity, and
inclination of the surface of a river being known, to determine
the dimensions of the bed, is necessarily incorrect.

· Examen Critique de VOuvrage de M. Duhuat stir let Principet de I'Hydrau-
       : par M.  Le  Creulx. Paris 1809.
lique  Elements  of  Mechanical Philosophy,  voL     ii., edited  by Dr. Brewster;  and

  f
Theory of Rivers.
REPORT ON HYDRAULICS. PAIIT II.  455

   Neither do the results of his experiments on the amount of
expenditure correspond with those deducible from the rate of
inclination of the surface.

   The uniform motion which he has supposed in rivers scarcely
exists in nature.

   The article on rivers contained in the fourth volume of the
Architecture Hydraulique, by Belidor, published in 1759, is
compiled from the works of Guglielmini and Michelini.

   The Nouveatuc Principes d' Hydraulique of Bernard, published
in the year 1787, contains much that is valuable relative to the
origin, formation, and establishment of rivers.

   His theory of the efflux of water from the sides of a prismatic
vessel and along an inclined channel, and the pressure sustained
by a diaphragm placed at one of its extremities, is founded upon
the principles of Bernoulli, D'Alembert, Bossut, and Dubuat ;
the practical applications are derived from Guglielmini and other
writers. His observations on the inclinations and velocities of
several of the rivers in France, such as the Saone, the Durance,
the Rhone, led him to conclude, that there existed no precise
rules in these respects. In several, the mean velocity was found
to be |ths of the depth.

   According to Lalande, all rivers increase the height of their
waters as they approach their embouchures ; the Saone was
observed to swell higher at its confluence with the Rhone, at
Lyons, than a league above it.

   Bernard concludes with Frisi, that the gravels found in the
beds of rivers are not owing to the attrition of rocks and larger
stones in the upper parts of the beds of rivers, but that they
exhibit themselves accidentally, accordingly as they are traversed
by the rivers. The swell and consequent action of rivers are
greatest at their points of junction. Inundations are greater in
the superior than in the inferior parts of rivers, on account of
the pressure of the upper waters, although the velocity of the
lower waters be greatest. The same had been remarked by
Castelli and other writers.

   The banks of the Po are 20 feet in height at 50 or 60 miles
distance from the sea, whereas at 10 or 12 miles distance from the
sea the banks are only 12 feet in height, whilst the breadth of
the river is the same in both places.

   Amongst the subsequent writers of the French, German, and
Dutch schools, may be mentioned Fabre, Lecreulx, Sturm,

Leupold, Meyer, and Brunnings.

   All of them merit attention, from the many valuable observa

tions with which they abound relative to the natural phenomena
of rivers, but it is doubtful whether they have advanced the

science.
    45(5                  FOURTH REPORT -- 1834.

       Ill the years 1789 and 1790, Brunnings undertook an exten
    sive series of experiments for the purpose of determining the

    relation between the superficial and mean velocities of the Rhine
    and Waal rivers which traverse Holland. For this purpose he
    constructed an ingenious tachometer upon the principle of ex
    posing a disc of wood or metal of any given magnitude to the
    direct action of the current at different depths, so that by the
    pressure of the disc against a lever placed above, the pressure
    and consequent velocity was indicated very nearly.

       The results are shown in the following Table :

                                         Velocity.  Experiments
                                                           of
          Rivers.         Depth.
                                                       Ximenes
                                  Surface.  Mean.        on the
                                                         Arno.
          ....Waal     .   Met.   0-670     0-627
          ....Ditto        1-57   0-708     0-664        0-934
                          1-57    0-874     0-779        0-938
          Lower Rhine     1-88    1-001     0-926        0-892
                          2-51              1-058        0-925
          ....Ditto       2-51    1-097     1-218        0-965
                          2-82    1-283     1-243        0-965
          Higher Rhine                      1-259        0-965
                          2-82    1-289     0-938        0-963
          ....Issel       2-82    1307      1-320        0-915
          ....Ditto               1-025     1-220        0-957
                          3-45    1-379     1-286        0-936
          Lower Rhine     3-45              1-361        0-921
                                  1-307     1-369        0-962
          ....Waal        3-76    1-397     1-341        0-954
          Lower Rhine     3-76    1-416     1068         0-934
          Higher Rhine                      1-131        0-902
          Lower Rhine  .  3-76    1-433     1-332        0-923
                                            0-923        0-908
          ....Ditto       3-76    1-484                  0-919
          ....Ditto       4-08    1184
          ....Ditto       4-39    1-226
          ....Waal        4-39
          ....Ditto       4-30    1-467
                                  1-004
          Higher Rhine    457

          ....Arno

       Admitting, however, the accuracy of these experiments, it is
    difficult to come to any other conclusion than that of a gradual
    though feeble diminution of the velocity (about -r^h) between
    the superficial and mean velocity.

        Woltmann regarded the diminution according to the ordinatea
    of a parabola reversed.

       Funk substituted the logarithmic scale, namely, whilst the
    depth increases in an arithmetical progression, the velocity de

    creases in a geometrical progression.
       Eytelwein, finding that no constant law could be discovered

    by his experiments, finished by admitting, by way of approxima
    tion, a decrease of velocity in an arithmetical progression, and a

N.
         REPORT ON HYDRAULICS. PART II.                                             457

diminution of ^th of the superficial velocity for each metre in
depth, so that v being the velocity, d the required depth, the
mean velocity of the particles will be v (1 -- 0-0125 d).

    But the experiments of Brunnings do not authorize such a
conclusion.

   The tachometer of Woltmann, published in the year 1790, was
constructed upon the principle of the common windmill, and
consisted of four small vanes, attached to an axle and connected

with wheel-work : the instrument, being exposed to the direct
action of the current at different depths, indicated by the number
of its revolutions the velocity of the stream.

   The following Table gives the result of some of the experi
ments made by Funk (amongst others on the Elbe and Weser,)
on the superficial and mean velocities of different parts of the
same section of the river contrasted with the experiments of
Dubuat.

       Partial Sections.  Velocity  Mean Velocity            according   Expense according to
Section Depth. Area.       of the                        to  Dubuat.    Experiment. Dubuat.

                          Surface. Experiment.

A Metres. Sq. Men. Metres.          Metres.                  Metres.    Cub. Met.   Cub. Met.
                                     0-403                   0-315         4-96        3-87
           0-55 12-31 0-403                                                            6-19
B                                   0-442                    0-370         7-41
   0-91  16-75 0-471                                                       9-62      1215
                                     0-267                   0-337                   14-37
C 2-70 36-05 0431                    0-264                   0-353       10-78
D 6-28 40-78 0-451                                           0-322       12-44        16 13
E 6-71 50-12 0-412                   0-248

   Total 15601                                                          45-21       52-71

   The following experiments, by Brunnings, on the velocities of
the Rhine, Elbe, and Weser, were also made by Woltmann's

machine.

                          State of Mean Mean                               Mean     Volume of
                          Water. Breadth Depth.                                        Water
                                                                           Velocity. persecond

Rhine                     ordinary  Metres.     Metres.      Millcmetres.  Metres.  Cub. Metres.
Ditto, at Nimuza            high      514        3-63                       0-91        1673
                             low                             0000115                    3395
Weser                                 521        4-93        00001 15       1-31          328
Ditto, at Ktow . .          high       lOo                   0000411                    1428
                             low      144        1-98        0000550        1-58
Elbe                                                                                      294
Ditto, at Magdebourg        high        96      412          0-000254       2-41          639
                                        96       264                        115
                                                             0-000363
                                                 4-07                       1-63

  It is somewhat remarkable, that the Nouvelle Architecture of

M. Prony, published in 1790, contains nothing relative to rivers.
458 FOURTH REPORT -- 1834.
The section on Hydrodynamics is confined to the exposition of
the ordinary motion of fluids, and the resolution of the problem
of the efflux of a fluid from an orifice made in the side of a pris
matic vessel on the principle of the parallelism of sections.

   The discovery of the law of the resistances of a fluid in rela
tion to the velocity, by Coulomb, paved the way to its success -
ful application to the case of a fluid moving in natural or artificial
channels by Girard ; that distinguished mathematician and en
gineer was then charged with the works of the Canal de L'Ourcq.
The researches made by him on that subject led to the publica
tion of several memoirs on the theory of running water, in one
of which he proposed the adoption for the value of the resist
ance, of the product of a constant quantity (determined from
twelve experiments of Chezy and Dubuat,) by the sum of the
first and second powers of the velocity, from which he obtained
a formula applicable to every case ; that is, supposing the mass
of water to glide over a film of the same fluid adhering to the
periphery of the channel, the mass is at first retarded by the
viscosity of the rubbing surfaces in the proportion of the
velocity, a second resistance arising from the asperities of the
channel compounded of the number and force of the impulsions
in a given time, and hence proportional to the square of the
velocity.

   The analogy supposed by M. Girard to exist between the
motion of water in an inclined channel, and a perfectly flexible

chain placed on a fixed or flexible surface, and his examination
of the best form for the transverse section of a channel, which
he finds to be the arc of a circle, are ingenious conceptions. His
theory of the resistances which influence the motions of water
was first published in the year 1804, and is remarkable for ex
pressing them by a very simple function, compounded of the
two first powers of the mean velocity, and with more accuracy,
than the formula of Dubuat. Mons. Girard is also the author
of several interesting memoirs on the river and canal of Ourcq*,
the latter of which was laid out upon the funicular principle.

   On the subject of locks for navigable canals, M. Girard devotes

three memoirs, for the purpose of developing the advantages
obtained in point of economy, by reducing the height of locks.
The system is explained with that simplicity and elegance which
characterize the writings of this author. The conclusions, how-

   · Mimoires sur le Canal de L'Ourcq et la Distribution de ses Eaux, le Deseche-
ment el I'Assainissement de Paris et let divert Canaux navigables qui out tie mis

Jten Extculion ou projetts dans le Basin de la Seine pour I'extension du Commerce

     la Capitale. Tome 1. Paris 1830.
    REPORT ON HYDRAULICS. -- PART II.                                459

ever, have been contested by several engineers, and by M. Mi-
nard in his Observations sur un Systeme a petites Chutes.
A fourth memoir*, published in the year 1826, examines the
question of the relative advantages and disadvantages which

belong to the conjoined or separate systems of locks. In this
memoir, M. Girard examines, under the different circumstances
of evaporation and filtration, the quantity of water necessary to
maintain a navigation of any given extent, the conditions of
which cannot always be fulfilled.

   M. Girard refers the failure of all the schemes, hitherto pro
jected, for the purpose of replacing the defects of the common
lock, to the impossibility of resolving the problem completely,
without an unnecessary expenditure of mechanical force, and
therefore reduces the maximum effect of the common lock to

questions of the comparative time and economy required by
boats for passing insulated or conjoint systems of locks. The
expression for the latter case is singularly modified in favour of
small rises of locks, when the boats pass in succession, and is
to--in favour of the conjoint system with regard to time.
In the formulaf. number 4, T = -- +  Vr2-^^g.                        ir-, the

time employed by the boat in passing through a number n, of
simple or isolated locks, distributed over the total inclination o.
The author does not take into consideration the stoppage of the
boat, and consequent loss of time occasioned by the repeated
changes in the force of trackage required by the isolated system.
The value of the water lost can only be contrasted with the value
of time under certain circumstances ; the question had already
been discussed, by Gauthey and others, with reference to the
locks of the canals of Briarie and Languedoc. An abstract of
M. Girard's other hydraulic researches has already been given

· Quatrieme Memoire sur les Canaux de Navigation considered sous le rapport
de la Chute, el de la Distribution de leurs Ecluses. Par M. Girard.
f The following are the formulae :
                                    a = the total height to overcome.
\ -/V '1 * "J a (n -- 1 + "S 2 ^    s = the surface of the gate.
og                        n         o = the orifice or sluice for filling
                                               the lock.
2 tV1[ A-2 + NQ + V2)\
                                    g = gravity.
                                    n n' = number of locks.
                                    N = number of boats together.

_" Vv t~n.*nt"'--V+72=27            1. / = section of canal.
                                       ' = space passed over the platform
                                                  in a second of time.
                                         = length of the lock.
460 FOURTH REPORT 1834.

in the first part of this paper. As we before stated, M. Prony
confined himself in his great work on Hydraulic Architecture to
the consideration of the dynamics of fluids ; but in the year
1801, having been called upon by the Ecole des Ponts et Chaus-
sees to report on the produce of the streams which were re
quired to supply the summit level of the canal that joins the
rivers Somme and Scheldt, M. Prony investigated the subject
with his usual sagacity, and the result was the publication of his
work, in the year 1802, on the measurement of streams*. His
method was to inclose a certain portion of the channel of the
stream by means of dams thrown across it at certain distances
from each other; and, by noting the time required to fill or empty
                                     of water which passed through
the space so inclosed, the volume
a given section in a given time was  easily ascertained. M. Prony,
however, does not deny the superiority of the system (where
practicable) of ascertaining the expenditure of streams by means

fof recipients of any given capacity ; but it is in his Physico-

Mathematical researches that he developes his general prin
ciples of fluids.
The principal results are :
1st, That a fluid, such as water, which runs through a pipe
or canal of a sufficient length to establish an equilibrium, ex
periences resistances which are equal to the force of gravity,
and produce uniformity in the motion of the stream;
   2ndly, That although the experiments of Amontons and
Coulomb on the friction of solids give the results in the direct
ratio of the pressure, the experiments of Dubuat, Dobenheim
and Benezeck on the friction of fluids show that pressure has
little or no effect ;

3rdly, That in every transverse section the different molecules
taken perpendicularly to the section move with different velo
cities ; but that there is a point where the velocity is a maximum,
as in the centre of a pipe or at the surface of an open canal,
and that from these centres there is a progressive diminution of

velocity towards the periphery ;
4thly, That besides the maximum velocity, there exists a
minimum and mean velocity, by which the motion of the general
mass is regulated;
5thly, That when the fluid runs through a pipe or channel
capable of being wetted, a film or bed of fluid adheres to the
interior of the pipe or channel, which is the true bed of the fluid
mass in motion ;

, · Jaugeage des Eattx Couranles : par M. Prony. Paris 1802.
   f Recherche* Physico-Malhemal'ujucs sur la Tktorie des Eaut Couranles :

par M. Prony. Paris 1804.
             REPORT ON HYDRAULICS. -- PART II.            461

   Gthly, That the experiments of Dubuat with pipes and chan
nels composed of different substances are in accordance with
this doctrine;

   7thly, That the adhesion or cohesion of the particles of the
fluid to each other, and to the surface of the pipe, require to be
represented by different values, capable of being compared with

each other.
The remainder of M. Prony 's physico- mathematical researches
is devoted to the examination and determination of the general
relations which subsist between the longitudinal and transverse
sections to the perimeters, and the velocity of the water under
the influence of friction and viscosity ; the whole is illustrated
by tables and formulae derived from numerous experiments by
Couplet, Bossut, Dubuat and Chezy.
                                                                 ·,

The corps of engineers of roads and bridges of France have
contributed largely to our knowledge of the theory of rivers, and
the numerous experiments which have been undertaken by dif
ferent engineers of that body have confirmed in a great degree
 the theories advanced by preceding writers. The experiments

which merit the most attention are those of MM. Raucourt and

De Fontaine ; the former on the river Neva at St. Petersburgh,
and the latter on the river Rhine.

   The object of M. Raucourt's experiments was to ascertain

how far the law of the velocities coincided with the theory of the
motions of water in pipes and open channels when the river was
frozen, and when free from ice.

Accordingly, he embraced the opportunity of the Neva being
frozen over in the year 1824; and having selected a place where
the width of the river is 900 feet, and the greatest depth 63 feet,

and the section very regular, and consequently assimilated to the
case of an immense pipe, he provided an instrument, constructed
on the principle of the common ship's log, and ascertained the
velocities by sinking the instrument through several holes made
in the ice at proper intervals : the maximum velocity was found
to be a little below the centre of each vertical, and diminished
as it approached either bank of the river. The same relative
                                         from each   other, were found to
velocities, differing   otnrilayls.^th  The results  were, that the greatest
prevail after repeated
velocity was found to be a little below the centre of the deepest
vertical :

             ft. ins.

             viz. 2 7 per second.                         "
             ....1 11 ditto . . .'. near the top.
             1 8 ditto                  near the bottom.

In the summer of the year 1826 M. Raucourt performed
4C>2 FOURTH REPORT 1834.

similar experiments on the same river, both in calm and windy
weather : the maximum velocity was then found to be equal to
the velocity at the surface; but when the surface was affected by
winds, the acceleration was greater or less.

   M. Raucourt's experiments have been partially tried by
Messrs. Detrem and Henry ; the latter made the relation be

tween the mean and superficial velocities in the proportion of
0-715 to 0-903, and the product of the Neva 116,000 cubic feet
(English measure) per second: the maximum velocity diminished
from the upper to the lower part of the river from 1*79 metres
to 1*015 metres. The inclination per thousand metres was found
to be 0*0267 *.

    But the most important observations which have been made

on rivers in modern times are those of M. De Fontaine on the

river Rhine and its affluents.
    Having been entrusted with the execution of certain works in

the year 1 820, for the purpose of restraining and regulating the
course of that part of the river which adjoins the French territory,
M. De Fontaine felt it his duty to investigate the phenomena
exhibited by that river in different parts of its course, and the
result has been the publication (in the year 1833) of his obser
vations in detail, in a work, entitled, lYavattx du Rhine.
According to M. De Fontaine, the river Rhine derives its origin
from the glaciers of St. Gothard, in Switzerland, whence the
waters run by three principal affluents to Reichenau, where they
unite into one great river ; after being increased by numerous
torrents from the Alps, it empties itself into the Lake of Con
stance, out of which it passes to be precipitated over the falls of
Schaffhausen and Lauffen, and, after having received by means of
the river Aar £ths of the waters of Switzerland, passes through
the great valley which separates the mountains of the Vosges
from those of the Black Forest ; thence it passes through the
narrow defiles of Bingen, thence through Holland, after which
it divides itself into several branches (to one of which it gives
its name), and empties itself into the German Sea above Leyden.
In its course it receives many considerable affluents, such as the
Elser, the Kinzig, the 111, the Moder, and the Murg on the
French boundary, and the Moselle, Mayne, Meuse, and others
as it approaches the sea ; it communicates with the Zuyder Zee
by means of the Isel. The irregularity of its course and the

   · Journal det Voiet de Communication, 8vo, 1826, St. Petersburgh · " Sur le

.laugeages de la Neva et dc ses differens bras."

  t Det Travaux du Fleuve du Rhin : par A. J. C. De Fontaine, Ingenieur en

cliof de premiere Classe des Ponts et Chaussles.
REPORT ON HYDRAULICS. -- PART IT.                               Am

ravages constantly committed on its shores, particularly those
of Alsace, one of the most fertile provinces of France, rendered
the construction of defensive works imperative, and it was to
counteract these evils that M. De Fontaine was selected to fulfill
this important task.
   The length of the course of the Rhine from Reichenau         to the

sea is stated to be 1342 myriametres, viz.
           From Reichenau to the French frontier . . . 420

Along the French shore                           222
Thence to the sea                                700

                                                 1342

   From careful barometrical observations, the heights of the low
waters above the level of the sea at the following places are :

At Reichenau                                     Metres.

At the lake of Constance                     1194-00

At the bridge of Basle                           405-00

At the bridge of Kehl                            252-30

At the confluence of the Lauter, which )         138-96

  Jis the limit of the French frontier .         .1.0^''.0f^0.

At the bridge of Manheim                         93-00
At the entry of the defiles of Bingen . . 67'00

   The general inclination, according to the three great sections
of the Rhine, is

                                                 PaUs.

From Reichenau to the French fron-  Total Fall.  Per Metre.

                                         Met     0-002242
                                      941-71     0000653
                                                 0.000057
                                      14530

                                    1127-01

   The part of the Rhine to which M. De Fontaine principally

directed his attention is comprised between Basle and Neubourg,
that being the political limit between France and the German

states. In this part the bed of the Rhine is situated in the

alluvium which forms the bottom of the valley, and through this
the Rhine forces its way by many channels, forming (in its
passage) islands and sandbanks, which render its motions very
irregular both in times of high and low water. Among the
4&i  FOURTH REPORT 1S34.

different channels there is generally one more considerable than
the others, and which forms the navigable channel, or thal
weg, as it is there termed. These branches are annually dimi
nished by artificial works, and it seems probable that in a few
years hence, the whole of the waters of the Rhine will be forced
into one channel. In general, however, the Rhine may be com
pared in the upper parts above Bavaria to an immense torrent.

    The inclinations vary according to circumstances, but the
greatest inclination is near Basle, at low water, on account of
the rocks, which inclination decreases £ths in times of flood.

    The inclination of the Upper Rhine, in its mean state, is
0'9G4024 per 1000 metres ; while at the frontier below the con
fluence of the Lauter, after a course of 222-460 metres along the
French shore, the inclination is only 0'395185 metres per 1000
metres, or a third only of the inclination of the upper part ; then
taking the total fall at 143-935 metres, the mean inclination
would be 0*647015 per 1000 metres, which is nearly the inclina
tion of the river at Brisack and Sponeck, that is, about a third
of the total length of the river.

    The velocities of the Rhine vary not only according to the
differences in the inclinations, but according to the perpetual
changes which the river undergoes in its motions from the irre
gularities in its bed. The following are the velocities :

                                                    Velocities per Second.

     Names of Places.                   Low Water.  Mean Water.  High Water.

Basle                                   Met.        Met.                    Met.
Huningen                                1-65        2-25                    4-10
In the angle of Krombs. . . .                       2-75                    3-60
                                        1-70        2-62
                            Schalampe.  1-88        2-79                    2-85
Opposite Vieux Brisach                  2-67        2-15
                                                    2-87                    2-30
At Sponeck                              1-81
At Artolsheim                                       213
At Rliinau                              1-52        225
At Guerstheim                           1-97        1-97
At the bridge of Kehl                   2-51        1-73
At Offendorff                                       1-56
At Drusenheim                           219         1-20
At Beinheim
Limit of theBavarian frontier           ].-)(!
At Manhcim
                                        1-40
                                        1-49
                                        1-24
                                        0-97

                                        0-70

   The conclusions are, that the decrease of the velocities is
irregular, and that they do not follow the law of the square
roots of the inclinations, nor the cube roots of the wetted peri
meters.
          REPORT OX HYDRAULICS. -- PART II.                 465

Maximum and Minimum Depths under the mean level of the
                                              Water.

The greatest depths of the Rhine do not exceed, on the ave
rage, four or five metres, except in particular places, such as the
Rock of Istein, where the depth is
                                                    9- 70  me--tres  ;
   At Rhein Weiller                                          --
   At the Spur of Blodelsheim                       7'00     --
   At the foot of the volcanic rock of Sponeck .  12-00      --
   At the extremity of ditto . ... .              11 '50     --
   At the foot of the Glasserwoerth
                                                  18-00

                                                  25'00
                                                  13-60 --
          Plitersdorff
From which it appears that the influence of corrosion is very
great where the current is obstructed, and hence the necessity of

the artificial works undertaken by M. de Fontaine.

   Floods. -- The floods of the Rhine occur periodically, namely,
from the end of May to the middle of September, during the
melting of the glaciers, after which the river returns to its
ordinary flow. The greatest floods generally happen about
March, after the first melting of the snows, but they occasionally
occur in other months. The rise of the waters at Basle seldom
commences until three days after the greatest rains and meltings
of the snow ; the greatest rise in 24 hours never having ex
ceeded 2-92 metres at Basle in 22 years ; and at Kehl, 1-.38 metres
in 27 years. The floods of the affluents (between Basle and
Lauterbourg,) which descend from the Vosges and Black Forest
mountains, are generally over before the arrival of the floods
from Switzerland. This phaenomenon arises from the great
difference which prevails between the sections at Basle and Kehl :
for some time the Rhinometers at the two places indicate nearly
equal elevations; but as soon as the floods commence, the eleva
tions no longer maintain the same relation to each other ; on the
contrary, when the Rhine has risen 0-01 metre at Kehl, it has risen
0'016 metre at Basle; and this relation occasionally varies with
the changes in the two sections. The years 1801 and 1824 were
remarkable for the extreme rises of the waters, not only in the
Rhine but in all the rivers of France.

   Tables are added in M. de Fontaine's report showing the maxi
mum and minimum oscillations of the waters at Basle, Kehl, and

Lauterbourg, for 22, 27, and 10 years respectively.

          Expenditure of the Rhine.

(From a series of gauges taken at Basle, Vieux Brisach, and
   Kehl, according to the different states of the river at these

places.)

1834.     2h
<t6G      FOURTH REPORT -- 1834.

The volume of water which passes,

                                At Basle,

                                                           Cub. Met.

          During great floods                is equal to   4624
          During mean water                                  865
          During very low water  .... do.                    330
                                                   do.

                      At Vieux Brisach,

          During great floods                 is equal to  4630
          During mean water                                  885
          During very low water  .... do.                    340
                                                    do.

                               At Kehl,

          During great floods               is equal to    4685
          During mean water                       do.        956
          During low water                                   380
                                                  do.

                      At Lauterbourg,

          During great floods               is equal to    5010
          During mean water                      do.       1106
          During low water
                                                  do.       465

From which it results, that the volume of water which passes
per second during great floods, compared with the volume which
passes during the lowest waters, varies from 10 to 1, to 14 to 1 ;
and in comparison of the mean to the low water, from 4£ to 1,
and 5$ to 1.
   The remaining and  indeed     principal  part of M. de Fontaine's

report is devoted to an account of the artificial works which have
been undertaken for the purpose of regulating the course of the
Rhine, in which the various kinds of fascines, embankments,

dams, jetties, counterforts, cuts, short channels, and the modes

of defending the banks are all spoken of in detail.
theTsheewoprrkinsciaprlee,s--which have guided him in the execution of

1st, The union of the waters into one channel, and the closing
of the secondary branches ;
    2ndly, The avoidance of all rectilinear cuts, and the adoption

of proper curves derived from observations on the rivers them

selves ;
3rdly, The formation of proper channels corresponding to the
different volumes and velocities of the waters ;
   In the first case, the practice of the engineer must be governed
by the volume and velocity of the waters and the nature of the
soil:

In the second, by the resistance of the soil :
                          REPORT ON HYDRAULICS. PART II.                                           'Ifi-

         In the third, by the amount of the high, mean, and ordinary
      volumes of water.

         The velocity of the waters of the adjoining part of the river
      must also be considered.

         The advantage of the curvilinear directions is, that the force of
      the centrifugal projection of the current on the concave side of
      the river can be more easily counteracted.

         The proper determination of the radii of curvature for the cuts
      must depend on the inclination and force of the current ; and
      from careful observations of the lengths of the curves in different
      parts of the rivers, M. de Fontaine determined the maximum
      lengths of the radii of curvature at 2200 metres where the depth
      in the curved part of the river was 15*36 metres, and where the
      corrosion did not exceed 1 1 metres in depth in the curve ; he
      fixed the minimum length of the radius at 1250 metres.

      Declivities of the Rhine, from a series of experiments made
         with the Stromm Messer of Woltmann, on the velocities of
         the Rhine in different sections, according to the following
         Table.

Velocities at different parts      Number      Space             Average       Surfc.ce    Mean         Mean
         of the Section.            turns of   parsed Velocity   Velocity      of the    Velocity     Velocity
                                   made by    through per       per second.  Section of              deduced
                                                                               Motion     of the     after the
                                       the       in 3D second.                 of the    Section.    Formula?
                                 Instrument   seconds.                        different             of (hat of
                                                                                Strata.            the Surface.
                                      in SO
                                   seconds.

                                              Met.  Met.            Met.                     Met.
                                                                0-9959"                  081426 0S11S9
--At  the surface                                   1-0000      0-9769
--                                                              0-9578
      0-10 met. below.           i;s          29-308 0-9769     0-938S

      0-20         -             fi.i-ir      29-020 0-9673     0-9198
                                 63;;                           0-9008
      0-30                       r.2          281 11 0-9370
                                                                0-8817
      0-40                       eiy*         27-315 0-9115     0-8027

      0-50                       59           27-024 0-9008     0-8437
                                 58
      060                                     26-291 0-8764
                                 52«
      0-70                       493          25-429 0-8470

      0-80                       II           24-998 0-8333                  1-0131117

      0-'8347     intersex  "\|                                 0-8371
          tion  of the two

      divisions             J

      0-90 met. below..                       22(382 0-7503 0-7867
                                              21.281 0-7094 0-7094
      100

      110

      l-10mer.fromthe                         18-904 0-0321 0-6321

                bottom..

Bottom .

         Kote. -- These velocities have been taken from experiments made over an
      extent of 60 metres, by means of a float, so suspended that its specific weight
      did not exceed that of the water.

                                                              2 11 2
408 FOURTH REPORT 1834.

   The conclusions from the preceding observations, are,
    1st, That the greatest velocity is at the surface :
   2ndly, That the velocity (which at first diminishes insensibly
downwards,) decreases rapidly towards the bottom, in a ratio de
pendent on the nature of the bed :
   3rdly, That supposing two right lines to pass through the
extremity of four ordinates, determined by experiment, and
conveniently chosen in the curve, which should pass through
all the points obtained, the ordinates of these right lines, cor
responding to the velocities observed in the other points, will
differ little in the numerical expression of these velocities :
   4thly, That the point of intersection of two right lines which
each partial surface of partial motion circumscribes, has for its
ordinate a numerical value which differs very little from the
mean velocity expressed by the quotient of the surface of mo
tions divided by the depth of the water :
    5thly, That the mean velocities resulting from the preceding
observations are greater than the mean velocities deduced from
the velocity of the surface by means of the formula adopted for
gauging streams :
   6thly, That the position of the ordinates, which expresses
the mean velocity of each surface of partial motion, is nearer
the bottom than the surface, or §rds of the depth, reckoning
from the surface, and ^ the depth when the bottom is very
regular.

                    Forms of the Surface of Rivers.

    Opinions vary very much on this subject ; some maintain
that the surface is convex, others concave, and others horizontal.

M. de Fontaine finds the form of the surface to vary accordingly

as the river is rising, falling, or slack.
   After explaining in detail the principles which have guided him

in regulating the course of the Rhine between Basle and Lau-
terbourg, a distance of 194,490 metres, M. de Fontaine gives
the following Table as the probable results of the action of the
river when turned into the new course.
REPORT ON HYDRAULICS. -- PART II.  469
170 FOURTH REPORT -- 1834.
   Although the lock had been long known in Italy, its introduc

tion into France did not take place until the reign of Francis the
First, when a lock was erected on the river Ourcq, by Leonardo
da Vinci. The improvement of the navigation of the Seine, and
the junction of the Seine and Loire, were preludes to the execu
tion of the canal of Briare under Henry the Fourth, in the year
1605, terminated in the year 1642 under Louis the Thirteenth,
and which was followed by the canals of Orleans, of Lourg, of
Beaucaire, and the junction of the Mediterranean and the Atlan
tic seas by the celebrated canal of Languedoc, executed by Riquet
in the reign of Louis the Fourteenth, so well described by La-
lande, Andre'ossi, Gauthey, &c, and since made the subject of
the scientific researches of Navier, Prony, and Girard. The
works of Huerne de Pommeuse, of Becquey, of Brisson, and
Dutens show the advanced state of the canals of that country.

    The following is a general statement of the canals of France,

according to M. Dutens.

                                                Length.                                        Estimated Cost.

                                                   Met.                                        francs.  cn«.
                                           3-0G8-87690*
1st.  Canals     comprised in seven    "l
        lines  of junction of the two
                                       I                                                       300,429,601 50

                                           1-020-022-64                                        143,935.916 0

    Secondary or projected  Canals.        1-955 -200-00
1st                                        6-5 11 -200-00
                                       1                                                          114,082,870 00
2ndly                                                                                             573,297,803 50
                                       J
                                                                                               1,138,340,251 0
                            Total          12-555-299-54

   On the subject of regurgitations, or the swelling of rivers, by
obstacles placed in them, such as dams, weirs, jetties, bridges,
or contractions of their channels, it only remains to notice the
experiments of Eytelwein, Bidone and Funk.

   An abstract of Eytelwein's experiments, by the late Dr. Young,
has already been given in the former part of my Report. When
the motion of a river is obstructed by a dam placed directly
across the surface of the river rises, and the water passes over
t is
           it,

                         :
                                                        is

                                                                                            1
                                                                                            a
   · The author of this paper indebted to M. Le Grand, Directeur General
des Ponts et Chausaees, &c, Conseiller d'Etat, for detailed statement of the
canals of France, from which the total length of the seven great lines of junction
              metres.
3,679,033                   XVIII.   pour  Van  820, sur la Navigation Interieure
  Rapport     au Roi Louis

de la France par M. Becquery, Conseiller d'Etat, Directeur General des Ponts

ct Chausscs.
                 REPORT ON HYDRAULICS. PART 11.                                      471

the dam. The height of the river above the dam will be the
quantity designated by H in the formula, now adopted by
Messrs. Poncelet and Lesbros, for the expenditure through

notches in dams, where a == 1'80/H-/H, where 1*80 is the
value of m in the expression of § m s/ 2 g = 0-610 ; if therefore

b be the height of the dam from the bottom of the river, and b'
the depth of the water before the erection of the dam, the height

of the swelling of the water will be H + b -- b I, as we before

stated. The merit of having discovered the true law of the
expenditure of water through notches in dams belongs to

M. Bidone*, but he has carried his researches still further by

his valuable experiments on the effects of dams and other ob
structions in raising the surface of running waters.

   The following Table gives the results :

          Current without the              Swelling.              Difference between
                      Dam.                                        the two amplitudes
                                  Height
ture per  Velocity. Depth.        of the  Height  Ampli   'Jc --    Ob     Calcu
Second.                            Dam.   on the   tude.          served.   lated.
                                           Dam.

Met. Cub. Met.   Met.             Met.      Met.  Met.    Met.    Met.     Met
  00208 1-361                                     4-33                     2-43
                               0-134      0-102   4-87    6-69
   00351 1-683                                    5-70                     3-71
   0-0467 1-936  I0-047 ^      0-160      0-100   6-53    7-44    i-2-56   4-91
                               0-188              3-60    8-28
                               0-217      0-102   4-44
                                                  5-22    904
                                          0-102   5-87
                          fi 0-136                0-09    7-32
                                          0-137   3-36
                             ! 0-161      0140    4-09    8-17
                 0064 -i 0-189            0143    4-70
                                          0144            9-01 >3-73
                                10-215    0143            9-71
                                          0167
                       .r      0-242      0168            10-29 1
                               0135
                                          0-167            7-90 1
                 0074 < 0161
                                0187                      J8-61 >. 4-56

                               1                           9-31

Dubuat was the first who turned his attention to the forms
and extent of swellings. Observing that the depth of the water
towards the dam increased, whilst the velocity decreased in the
same proportion, he concluded that the surface was a concave,

similar to an arc of a circle, and calling H the height of the
swelling,/? the inclination of the current before the erection of the

dam, and p> the inclination        of the  swelling immediately in front
of the culminating point,         which                               l'-9H          H--
                                           he     makes   equal   to            -j,

  * " Experiences sur la Dcpensc des Reservoirs," par George Bidone, 1824,

torn, xxviii. des Menxoiret dc I'Acadimie des Sciences de Turin.

                                                                                          m
472 FOURTH REPORT -- 1834.

is the hydrostatic amplitude ; and as p' is very small in propor
tion to p, the one amplitude will be double the other.

   Funk, after having demonstrated that Dubuat's method gave
too great an excess, admitted that the surface was a concave
arc of a parabola, at a distance from the dam of twice the hydro
static amplitude, of which the perimeter would be £ H' p ; con
sequently at any distance from the dam, the height of the swell

a-VH't-JHling below the surface of the current is 2 H' --j>

p a. When a=--3 --H' this height is zero, from whence the point or

the surface of the swelling joins the current. The amplitude
will then be 3--H--' , or 1^ time the hydrostatic amplitude.

    The following are the results :

         Amplitudes.

By Observations. By Calculations.

Metres.               Metres.
  7127                 7007
  5868                 6984
  1940                 2128
    785                   900

   This question has also been examined by Messrs. Be'langer
and D'Aubuisson*.

   In like manner the contractions of rivers, by natural and ar

tificial causes, occasion a rise in the surface of the water equal
to the difference between the heights of the water before and
after the contraction : the same applies to the piers of bridges
and to jetties ; both cases have been examined by Dubuat, Eytel-
wein, and Funk. Funk in particular made several experiments
on the swell occasioned in the river Weser by the bridge of
Minden. The mean breadth of the river was 180-7l metres, the
mean depth 5*37 metres; the produce of the water was 1318
cubic metres ; the height of the swelling was found to be 0"383 ;
the sum of the openings of the bridge was 96*03 metres · the
velocity of the river before the swelling was 1*358 metres

(1318 \= 1H0.» =7** j ; but the velocity of the upper surface of the

  J.* Page 162 of the Traite d' llydrauUque a I usage des Ingenieurs ; par T.

D'Aubuisson de Voisins : Paris 1834. Sec also Venturoli di Mcccanka e eCIdrau-
lica. Milan 1818.
                        REPORT ON HYDRAULICS. -- PART II.                                                                     473

river is generally T\jth greater than the mean velocity v = 1 '494 met.
As the current, however, was prevented from entering the arches
by fenders, placed to protect the piers from the ice, it was neces
                                       coefficient of contraction, or 0'855 ;
sLa,ryortobreaaddotpht  Eytelwein's    being 180'7 metres, and h, or depth
                        of the river,

                         ; from which
                        (1'494)2\
of

.... *--- ^----^^----*-o,f
the river, being 53'7                  we get the numerical   value
                                                               , -I
..which- equal                         180-7x5-37          4
          of
Neelectin&?lrb'
we have the first value of x                is= 0'437      me--tres.
                                                             --
second . . ditto                               i.|= 0'358    --
                                                             --
third . . . ditto                      =0'370
fourth and last, being the result of calculation, = 0-369
whilst that of the experiment          = 0'383

but such results must necessarily depend upon circumstances.

Progress  Hydraulic Engineering in England with reference
             to Rivers, Canals, and Drainage.

    Though practical works in hydraulic engineering of great mag
nitude and extent have been carried on in England, the applica
tion of this science to rivers has made little or no progress here
since its first introduction from the Continent. The demands of
of commerce have made us partially acquainted with some of the
common phaenomena which they present; but the laws which
govern their motions, under all the variable circumstances to
which they are subject, are involved in mystery. The principles
upon which the earliest Acts of Parliament were framed for the
conservancy of our rivers consisted in deepening, straightening,
and embanking them where necessary, and, by means of sluices
and weirs, penning up or lowering the surface of the water for
the purpose of producing flashes and overcoming the obstruc
tions to navigation. Experience had, however, shown that na
vigations of this sort were liable to perpetual degradation, from
the alterations produced in the regimen of the rivers by such
artificial works, which frequently augmented instead of remedy
ing the evil, whilst they obstructed the general drainage of the
country.

   The circuitous navigation and the trackage against the stream
were at all times laborious and dilatory; these difficulties sug
gested the propriety of deserting the natural bed of the river,
and led to the formation of separate cuts with the pound locks*,

   * The first lock in England  supposed to have been erected in the year 675,
on the Exeter navigation.       is
                                                                                                                           1
471                     FOURTH REl'ORT 1834.

and the various contrivances which were subsequently invented
to supersede their use. Until the invention of the lock, therefore,
very little could be done in the way of inland navigation, ex
cept in the fens, when connected with drainage ; accordingly
                                        of this kind          --arethteo
the most  aFnocsisenDt ykaettsem*ptbsy  the Romans,                        be found in the
Carr and                                                                   former skirting

the uplands and fens from the river Nene at Peterborough to the
river Witham near Lincoln, by a canal of forty miles in length,
and the latter, which connects the Witham at Lincoln with the

Trent above Gainsborough, by a level cut of eleven miles in
length.

   The works also undertaken by the Church in the great level
of the fens, such as the cut from Peterborough to Guyhern by
Bishop Morton in the year 1478, and afterwards perfected by
Charles the First, conjointly with the Bedford Level adventurers,

may also be mentioned.

     Superficial Content of the Fens adjoining the Wash.

Between the high lands on the south and south-east,"]                      138,880 acres

 Jand the Great Ouse and Cam rivers, the superficial >                     ,,,,,.. j
                                                                                 '
   content is 217 square miles, or
Between Great Ouse and Cam rivers and river Nene, 1                        ojs ' oro d
     394 square miles, or                                               /
                                                                           2f 4 960 do
Between river Nene and Glen river, 389 square 1
     miles, or                                                          f  ioa ' r 10 d

Between Glen river and Old Witham river, 414)                           /
     square miles, or
/Between Old Witham river and Tetney drain, 201 \
   square miles, or

                        Making a total of 1 Old square miles, 1,033,360 acres.

The rivers that drain this immense district are, --

     The Setch, or Nar,                           Holbeach river,
     Great Ouse and its tributaries,              Old Welland,
     Little Ouse, or Brandon river,               Glen river,
     The Cam,                                     Old Witham river,
                                                  Old river,
     Welney,
     Nene and its tributaries,                    Louth river.

· The late Mr. Rennie, in his Report to the Commissioners of the First Di
strict of the North Level of  t"heThFeenCs,ardrateDdyk1e7thactJsunaes,  1809, speaking of the
Caerr or Carr Dyke, says,                                               a catch-water drain to
the whole North Level; and if it were in good condition, and had a good
outlet, it would intercept the water falling on 12,000 acres of high land, and
wo"ulTdhgisregartelayt  relieve the whole level.
                         Roman work extended      originally  from the river Nene below
IPeterborough to the city of Lincoln, and perhaps the river Trent at Torksey.
        REPORT ON HYDRAULICS. PART II.                                                                            475

   The general drainage act of Elizabeth in the year 1600, and
the failure of different attempts that had been made to drain
the fens by different engineers, combined with political cir
cumstances, led to the employment of Dutch engineers *, then
the most celebrated hydraulicians in Europe ; hence may be
dated the commencement of British engineering.

   The established maxims of the Dutch engineers were to em
bank the rivers, so as to prevent the land-floods and high tides
from overflowing the lands to be drained, to leave open the
rivers to the free action of the tides, to conduct the downfall
and soakage waters by separate drains to the sea, and to place
sluices at the outlets of the drains, which, while they prevented
the ingress of the sea during its influx, let off the land-waters
when the tides were sufficiently low. These operations, though
open to objection, especially as regards the separation of the
waters into cuts, and the consequent choking up of the natural
outlets of the rivers, gave, however, an impulse to this depart
ment of hydraulics, which, until then, had been practised without
principles or science.

   With the reign of the Stuarts, therefore, may be said to have
commenced that system of practical engineering which has
flourished with such unparalleled success in this country, and
in which so much sagacity has been displayed by Elstobb,
Labyle, Kinderley, Dobson, Grundy, Edwards, Smeaton,
Brindley, Watte, Whitworth, Page, and Golborn, and other en
gineers in modern times.

   From the Report of the late Mr. Rennie in the year 1800, and
according to the levels taken by his direction, it appears that the
fens of Lincolnshire, particularly the East, West, and Wildmore

fens are generally lower the more distant they are from the sea,
and this, on the supposition that they have been originally
covered by the sea, must always be the case ; hence the great

tbcheoeellsneecgtferioennast,.--oftThwheaetdeigrffsriecauwtlthybiactyhheorarerfeoersfetouuaonrfyddrtiahnirnotiunhegghtinhwetemhriicohhrastphaaerlwtsadyiosff

Ifhavewt"reallc-elatdhideoitusCtacrorwurDosyerkkefoIrbethhareevpegarienraeetdveesatrndspeaiemrntp.o"rof vtIehnde  way, and a more judicious

and                                                                                                               concluding his Report, he
says,                                                                                                             with a proper outfall to the
river Welland, there is no doubt that the first and fifth district of the Fens,

and indeed the whole level, will be greatly relieved."
· Vermuyden, Westerdyke, and Van Scotten.

Westerdyke's principles were to keep the waters in a body, and convey the
land-flood by the nearest and quickest way to the sea that may be.
See the valuable works of Coles and Wells on the Bedford Level. Kinderley
and Labyle found it the same, and it may be particularly noticed in the Rother
Levels near Rye, in Sussex.
476 FOURTH REPORT -- 1834.

ferent rivers disembogue is very shallow and full of shifting sands
and silt. The rivers, which are constantly loaded with silt, par
ticularly in times of flood, are met by the tide equally charged
with it ; in the still water which is the result of the counter
acting forces the sediment is deposited ; banks are formed,
which are nearer to or more remote from the rivers in pro
portion to the strength of the current; so that if the seasons
be wet, the rivers run to seaward with greater velocity and pro
pel the silt further out; and vice versa, if the season be dry, the
outward power is lessened, and the silt deposited nearer to the
mouths of the rivers, where it prevents the free egress of the
waters from the fens. Such being the statement of the case,
the remedy is in a great measure pointed out.

    The first object that merits consideration is the outfall.
    The second, the discharging of the waters which fall on the
surface of the fens.

    The third, the intercepting and carrying off the upper or
highland waters without allowing them to fall into and overflow
the fens.

   To effect the first object, Mr. Rennie recommended that the

rivers should be conducted to the sea by as short a course as pos
sible, and in this respect adopted the opinion of Kinderley, who
was well aware that none of the rivers which pass through the
fens are sufficiently powerful to force their way through the im
mense extent of shallow flats which are left dry at every tide ;
and therefore proposed the scheme of joining the Nene, the Ouse,
the Welland, and Witham rivers. The above principles were
afterwards partly carried into effect, and the result has been the
most perfect system of drainage of all that district of country
eastward of the river Witham, called the East Fen, containing
upwards of 62,000 acres of valuable land *.

· The following is the abstract of the low lands paying drainage tax to the
general Commissioners for drainage by the river Witham :
                                                                                                                        - ·-' * - .-i
                                                                                                Acres. Roods. Perches.
1st district, containing
                              24,544   3 20

2nd                           19,080   2  7

3rd                           4,669    3  7

4t"h                      ·"  (27,743  0 26
                              (34,483  00

5th 4,781 2 19

6th                           11,565   2  5

                                                         Total, 126,768 2 4
    But the total quantity of land drained by the river Witham is estimated to
amount to nearly half a million of acres.
   The following is an abstract of a statement by the late Mr. Bower relative
to the improvements effected by Mr. Rennie's drainage of the East Fens.
   To show the advantage of this drainage it may be necessary to state the
             REPORT ON HYDRAULICS. PART II.                                                        477

   Iu 1810 the attempt was revived to effect a complete drain
age of the Great Bedford Level, consisting of 300,000 acres.
The drainage here passes off by the rivers Ouse, Nene, and
their tributaries, which discharge their waters into the great
bay or wash, called the Maetaris ^Estuarium.

situation the fens were in every winter and spring prior to any works being
executed under the direction of Mr. Rennie. In the year 1799 the whole of
the three fens, which contain 40,482 acres, together with the low-lands and
commons adjoining, containing about 20,000 acres, were under water, except
a small part in Wildmoor and the West Fen ; the whole of the East Fen, which
contains 12,664 acres; the lower part of the West Fen, containing about
1 7,052 acres ; and the lower part of Wildmoor Fen, containing about 7770 acres,
making together 37,484 acres, were every winter under water. The East Fen
deeps, containing about 2500 acres, and the part of Wildmoor Fen called No
Man's Friend, containing about 1500 acres, were always under water during
the summer ; the former upon an average, in the driest time, about two feet

deep. The quantity of high lands draining through these fens is not less than
12,000 acres, which, in ordinary wet seasons, send down upwards of 40,000
cubic feet of water per minute, which, added to the downfall water upon the
fens and the higher lands in the East Holland towns, amounting to about
25,000 acres, soon overflowed the said fens and low lands adjoining. This great
body of water had to find its way to the sea through three small gouts, or
sluices, viz. Austin's Gout, which had an opening of fourteen feet ; Maud
Foster, an opening of thirteen feet ; and Tichloft, an opening of four feet : the
first were of little use, being so high up the river as to be overrode by the
most trifling flood. The whole drainage, therefore, of the fens and low -lands had
to depend upon the small sluice of Maud Foster, which sluice has three open
ings of thirteen feet four inches each.

   From this it may fairly be said that what is now made of the fens since the
drainage is a total gain. The average value at which the fens are now let is
as follows :

                                                  Acres.  at 42s. per acre     22,623              *.
                                                          at 50*. per acre     42,610              (i 0
Wildmoor Fen . . 10,773                                   at 40s. per acre     25,328              00
                                                                                                   00
West Fen . . . 17,044

East Fen     . . . 12,664                                                   .

'TwianS"6}              ^" "*P--40,481 acres.                               .  90,561              60
                                                                               20,000              00
                                                                                                   60
                        60,481                            Per annum 110,561
                                                                                                   50
Money actually"]        433,905 at 5s. per foot 21,695                         50

  .Jpaid for the >                                                             00
                                                                                           29,035
   drainage .

Ditto, upon  atnhde")>  146,800 at 5 per cent.            7,340
   division  . .J

roads

             Interest per annum

                        Increased annual income                                81,526 1 0
478 FOURTH REPORT -- 1834.

   The principles of drainage recommended by Mr. Rennie were,
    1st, To shorten and deepen the courses of the existing rivers ;
    2nd, To form new cuts or drains in different directions

through the fens, with inclinations in their beds of from three
to five inches ;

   3rd, To form a catch-water drain round the bases of the hills
skirting the fens, and to conduct the upland waters by an in
clined bed of six inches per mile, through a separate outlet, into
the head of the proposed Eau Brink Cut, into which all the drain
age-waters were to be carried likewise.

    The expense of completing this magnificent drainage was
estimated at £1,188,189.

   The Eau Brink Cut was originally projected by Mr. Nathaniel

Kinderley in the year 1 720 : the object was to conduct the waters
of the river Ouse by a direct cut across the marshes from Eau
Brink to Lynn, of about two miles and half in length, instead of
allowing them to flow by the old circuitous channel of upward
of five miles in length.

    This Cut was completed, agreeably to Captain Huddart and

Mr. Mylne's award, under the direction of Mr. Rennie, in the

year 1825.

   In December, 1821, the tide rose on the average eleven feet
ten inches on the cill of Old Denver Sluice ; while at low water
the average depth on the cill was 9-6 inches, and the average
height of the water in the river was 11 -5 inches.

   Since the completion of the Eau Brink Cut, in the year 1825,

the results have been,

   That the low-water mark has fallen six feet lower than it
formerly stood at Denver Sluice, and from eight to nine feet at
Eau Brink.

    That the spring tides now rise at Denver Sluice thirteen feet,
and neap tides eight feet.

   That the river has deepened between Denver Sluice and Eau
Brink ten feet upon the average, and its general sectional area
has increased from one fourth to one third.

   That the low-water mark in Lynn harbour has fallen four
feet, and the navigable channel in Lynn harbour has deepened
seven feet ; and that where there were formerly twelve feet in
depth of water in the intercepted bed of the old Ouse between
Eau Brink and Lynn, there is now a tract of 900 acres of land
under cultivation, all of which has been effected by the process
of warping.

   The tide in the Eau Brink flows three hours, and rises in that
time fifteen feet, thus leaving nine hours of ebb.
REPORT ON HYDRAULICS. PART II.  479

   The next and most important improvement in the Bedford
Level was the Nene Cut or Outfall. The river Nene, after
passing through Northamptonshire, enters the Level at Peter
borough, whence it proceeds in an irregular direction through
Guyhern and Wisbeach to the sea near Gunthorpe Sluice, and
thence loses itself amongst the irregular channels and sands of

the Washway.
   The defective state of this river and of the drainage have been

at all times complained of; and the attempts which had been
made to remedy it, by Bishop Morton in 1478, by Sir Clement
Edmonds in 1618, by Kinderley in 1721, and by Smeaton in
1767, had in a great measure failed, not so much from a de
ficiency of skill on the part of the engineers as from other causes.
The very successful drainage of the East Fens in Lincolnshire
by Mr. Rennie induced the Commissioners of the North Level
to apply to him in the year 1813, and the result was a very
elaborate Report from that gentleman in the following year,
detailing very fully the causes and effects of the evils, and the
measures necessary to remedy them. The following facts are
curious :

    From accurate levels and sections of the river Nene, it ap
peared that the fall at low water from Sutton Wash to Crab
Hole (below the sands of the Wash) was 12 feet in about
4 miles ; from the surface of the water at Gunthorpe Sluice to
Crab Hole, a distance of 5^ miles, the fall was 13 feet ; and from
Wisbeach Bridge to the same point, a distance of 11^ miles,
the fall was 13^ feet.

    From Guyhern to Crab Hole, a distance of 17 miles, the fall
was 14 feet 6 inches ; and from Peterborough Bridge to the
same point, a distance of 30^ miles, the fall was only 18 feet
6 inches ; whereas from Peterborough Bridge to Sutton Wash,
a distance of more than 26 miles, the fall was only G\ feet,
or 3£ inches per mile ; but at the intermediate distances, be
tween Sutton Wash and South Holland and Gunthorpe Sluices,
the fall was nearly double the above average.

   From these facts it appeared evident that the great bar to the
discharge of the waters of the Nene, and of course to the general
drainage of the fens, was the high and shifting sands which lay
between Gunthorpe Sluice and Crab Hole, independently of the
narrow and confined state of the river above ; Mr. Rennie there
fore recommended the river to be carried by a new cut, of a
suitable capacity, across the marshes to Crab Hole, 5\ miles in
length.

    The Cut has been since carried into execution under the
480 FOURTH REPORT -- 18.34.

direction of Messrs. Telford and Ronnie, and the result has ex

ceeded the most sanguine expectations.
   The lands immediately drained by this Cut were estimated to
amount to 35,000 acres.

    The improvements of the river were estimated at £373,713.
    And the internal drainage at
                                              263,604.

                              Making a total of . . 637,317

    According to Mr. Wing, the district drainage which would be
                       river Nene would   amount to 116,900 acres.
effe"ctTehde  by the   which the works,   when completed, will have  on
               effect

the internal drainage of  Wthiengfe, ns"  connected with them may be
appreciated," says Mr.                    by the following facts : The
windmills used in the North Level are not permitted to throw
any water to the height of more than four feet above the lands
in Thorney North Fen, which are about four feet three inches
above the cill of Gunthorpe Sluice, making the greatest fall
which can be obtained from the drains only eight feet three
inches ; but it seldom happens that the low-water mark is less
than two feet above the cill, so that the general fall may be
considered as not more than six feet three inches ; whereas the
low water at Crab Hole is nine feet nine inches below the cill of

Gunthorpe Sluice, and consequently below the lands in Thorney
Fen." Another important object was that at least 10,000 acres
would be gained from the sea by the improvements, and this
operation is now going on very rapidly. The expense of up
wards of sixty windmills, costing on the average 4385/. per
annum, would be saved, independently of other advantages, all
of  which are fully detailed  in Mr. Wing's   pamphlet *.
                                              carried into execution
    A similar plan for a Cut  has since been

on a modified scale below Boston, in Lincolnshire, and with cor

responding benefit both to the navigation and drainage.
   Principles similar to the foregoing have been recommended by

Mr. Rennie in his various Reports on the drainage of the marshes
of Hatfield Chase, Congresbury, Romney, Holderness, &c.

    The system of canal navigation in England has been carried
on for more than half a century on a scale no less extensive
than the drainage. The completion of the Sankey Canal in the
year 1760, and of the Bridgewater Canal in the year 1761,
opened the eyes of the nation to the vast advantages that were
likely to be derived from artificial navigation, and led to the

   · Consideration* on the Principles of Mr. Rennie' s plan for the Drainage of
the North Level of South Holland. By Tycho Wing, Esq. Peterborough, 1820.
                     REPORT ON HYDRAULICS. -- PART II.              481

system of direct and indirect communication, which has united
all the great rivers and ports of the kingdom.

In Scotland the progress of inland navigation, although less
                     proportionably successful; so
rCahpaidrl,eswaIIs.   the idea of joining the Forth  early as the reign of
                                                     and Clyde rivers ori
ginated with the Duke of York. The subject was again resumed
in the year 1722 ; in 1762 a survey was made by Messrs. Mackell
and Watt; and in 1766 that great work was commenced by
Mr. Smeaton, and finally completed in 1790. Between the above
periods, also, Mr. Watt, the great improver of the steam-engine,
made many reports on the improvement of the river Clyde and
on the Monkland, Crinan*, and Caledonian Canals ; and in the
year 1802 Mr. Telford was employed to make surveys of the
whole coast and interior of Scotland, with a view to improving
its harbours and rivers, and which led to the execution of the

Caledonian Canal by that gentleman in the year 1821.
frSeeavetral other canals have been since completed in Scotland by

different engineers.
The following is an approximate statement of the number of
miles and the cost of river- and canal-navigation in England,
Wales, and Scotland :
                                                     Miles.
                                                             Cost.
River-navigation in England and Wales . 2036 £5,000,000
Ditto in Scotland
                                                     200 1,269,000

                      Total river- navigation 2236           £6,269,000

Canal- navigation in England and Wales . 2277                 19,793,065
Ditto in Scotland                                              2,344,324
                                                     200

                       Grand total 4713 £28,406,389

Average cost of canal per mile :              £9,000
                                  5,000 to 6,000
         In England
         In Wales                               11,000
         In Scotland

   The first idea of improving river-navigation in Ireland is due
to the enlightened administration of the unfortunate Earl of
Strafford, who had witnessed the effects of inland navigation

in the Low Countries. In the year 1703 the first act of par

liament was passed for making the river Shannon navigable,
and many improvements were projected : nothing, however, was
effected, but an useless expenditure of 140,000/. of public money
on the rivers Shannon and Boyne in the year 1758.

1834.                 i* Executed by Mr. Rennie.
                                         2
482 FOURTH REPORT 1834.

   Various sums of money were granted by Parliament, and frit
tered away in partial improvements of the Shannon, Boyne,
Barrow, and Newry rivers, besides the Grand, Royal, Kildare,
Naas, and Lough Earn navigations.

Up to the year 1790 there had been expended £587,537
And in 1800 a further sum of
                                                423,798

And from 1800 to 1831 an addition, for further

improvements, of                                800,000

                                   Making a grand total of 1,81 1,335

3be1e2Tnh;econtmaovptiaglelatbenldeumirnbiveeIrrreso,laf n1md71ilae;ms--oouefnxctislnulsatiovned48o3nfavmtihgileaetsi,or--nivei.wre.hSiochfhacnanhnaoavnle,,

which is 234 miles from its source to the sea.

   In the year 1809 an act of parliament was passed for the ap

pointment of Commissioners to inquire and examine into the
nature and extent of the bogs of Ireland, the practicability of
cultivating them, and the best means for effecting the same.

   The result was a very detailed report by Mr. Griffith on the
origin, composition, and extent of the Bog of Allen, and of the
first district, or eastern division of that bog, amounting to 36,430
English acres.

   Mr. Griffith found that the average thickness of the Bog of
Allen was 25 feet ; that it was nowhere less than 1 2 feet, nor

thicker than 42 feet ; and that the height of the highest part
of the bog above high-water mark in Dublin Bay was 296 feet.
The cost of draining the whole of the eastern division was esti
mated by Mr. Griffith at 70,000/., and to increase the annual
value of the land 20s. per acre.

   The second Report of the Commissioners laid before Parlia
ment stated, That they had received detailed reports from their
engineers on an extent of bog amounting to 197,000 acres ;

   That the several districts reported upon were intersected with
streams, the channels of which were found to be generally in
the under strata, usually consisting of gravel or clay ;

   That on the surfaces of these bogs there appeared to be abun
dant falls towards these streams to carry the surface-water into
them;

   That in respect to differences of opinion which seemed to
prevail among the engineers, whether deep or surface drainage
is best adapted to the reclamation of bogs, there were satisfac
tory proofs that the surface or bog might be highly improved,
so as to bear crops without drawing off the water from the
lower strata.
       ItEPORT ON HYDRAULICS. -- PART II.                                          483

The Commissioners however conclude, that neither system
should be exclusively preferred ; the                                                application of
either must depend on circumstances                          ;  s--uctcheastsf"ul
                                                                                   wherever exten
sive bogs are to be drained, main and minor drains will be re
quired for the purpose to act as receiving drains for the water,
with a system of numerous small surface-drains to collect the
water in considerable quantities."
Mr. Edgeworth's report on the seventh district is compre
hensive and ingenious ; his instrument for sounding and taking
the sections of rivers was capable of giving correct results.
Mr. Edgeworth advocated the system of surface-draining instead
of deep cuts ; he proposed portable wooden railways to be sup
ported on the bogs by piles for the purposes of conveying manure
to the surface, which he states to be similar to the plan adopted
by Mr. Roscoe on Chat Moss. His experiments on the com
pression of bogs are, however, very contradictory*.
The third Report of the Commissioners is confined to a state
ment of former proceedings ; and to giving the reports of their
engineers on the surveys of 474,808 English acres of bog.
The fourth and last Report concludes the labours of the Com
missioners, by giving the reports of the engineers, Messrs.
Nimmo, Edgeworth, and Griffith, on 305,012 acres of bog, ex
clusive of 500,000 acres of bog in the counties of Kerry and
Cork.
For the improvement of mountain bog, Mr. Nimmo recom
mends irrigation, the advantage of which in reclaiming bogs,
he states, has been proved by experience in some few instances
in Ireland, but principally in Scotland.
Mr. Nimmo observes, that wherever a stream flows through a
bog it appears to prevent the growth of bog-plants, and the
vegetation of wholesome grass is rapid on its banks ; but as this
system can only be applied to bogs in elevated situations, he
recommends surface-draining for bogs in flat countries, adopting,

   · The author of this paper, when making the survey of the present Liver
pool and Manchester Railway in the year 1825, found that a cubic foot of
moss, taken from Chat Moss, weighed 62'24 lbs ; a heap of moss 4 yards by
3 yards, and 21 yards in height, weighing about 22$ tons, sunk 1 8J inches.

   A quantity of moss, 1 2 inches long and 6 inches square, was put into
a box with holes; its weight at first was 12 pounds; after being compressed
Jsome time it weighed   oItnlwyas3fJuprtohuenrdsre:dutcheed         was found to be reduced to
                                                             moss   compression of 20 tons, and
4 inches in thickness.                                        by a

an evaporation by heat to 1£ inch; so that the total loss in weight was
10 pounds of water, being in the proportion of five of water to one of vegetable
matter, and the compression in bulk of eight to one; and in taking accurate
levels of Chat Moss, its surface was found to rise and fall two feet above its

average rise in wet weather.  2i 2
484 FOURTH REPORT 1834.

however, the system of catch-water drains to intercept the
waters from the higher grounds, and then a system of shallow
drains to deliver the surface-water of the bog into the natural
streams : these drains will of course vary in number and di
mensions, but in no case ought they to exceed six feet in depth.

Mr. Griffith agrees with the principles of irrigation laid down
by Mr. Nimmo.

   From the results of the reports it appears that the number of
English acres of bog which have been surveyed in the twenty-
five districts amounts to
And that there remain upon the three mountain          1,013,358
   districts of Wicklow, Erris, and Connemara . .
                                                       387,090

Exclusive of peat soil, which forms the general cover

ing of these mountains                                 355,000
besides other lands, not examined ; from all of which it is in

ferred that the  extent of   peat soil in  Ireland   erxecdeedbsog2,,--830w,h00ic0h
English acres,   -- whereof    1,576,000   are flat

might be converted to the general purposes of agriculture.
   As regards the Shannon river, which forms the most import
ant feature in the internal navigation in Ireland, various

examinations and surveys have been made, from the year 1715
down to the present time: the most detailed reports have

been made by Mr. Rennie, Mr. Grantham, Captain Mudge,
Mr. Rhodes, and Col. Burgoyne. The result of these reports
may be stated in a few words, namely, That the Shannon may
be considered as a combination of lakes and rivers, from its
source in Lough Allen to the sea below Limerick :
The total distance from Limerick to Lough Allen is 144 miles :
The total height of the mean surface of the water in Lough
Allen above that of the surface at Limerick is 143 feet seven

inches, which gives an inclination of rather less than twelve
inches in a mile :

The natural fall is, however, reduced to a series of horizontal

planes of different lengths by locks :
The general direction of the river is extremely irregular, and
broken by many streams, islands, and rocks :
The soundings vary in the same manner, and in some places
are very deep, in others very shallow :
The river is liable to be overflowed to a great extent on both
banks, and the large expanse of the lakes renders the vessels
which navigate the river unfit for the lakes :
The works which have been constructed to overcome the
natural difficulties of the navigation are either insufficient or in
a state of decay ; and it seems to be generally admitted that very
little real good can be effected until the natural obstructions are
           REPORT ON HYDRAULICS. PART II.                                 4-85

removed, the number of lakes reduced, and the channel deepened
and improved in various parts, notwithstanding which it is gene
rally believed that the navigation would only be fit for steam

boats.

The difficulty experienced in preserving the channels of rivers
free from the changes which take place in times of flood by the
depositions of gravel and other obstacles,                         : C"ol.ItBiusrgaovyenrye
to make the following statement in his                    induced
                                                          Report
usual opinion among engineers, that side artificial canals are

eventually more judicious than the attempt to dredge channels
in the beds of the streams themselves; and that for the purposes
of "naIvtimgaatyiotnh,errievfeorres                       supply canals with water.
                                     are only useful  to  estimating the propriety of
                                     be important,    in

excavating the required depth of this river according to the plan
Ifnow proposed, to take into consideration the nature of the shoals.

   they have been created by deposits collected by the action of
the current, it may be inferred that the same process will con
tinually tend to the same results, and that an
the channel would require to be constant and              effort to       preserve
                                                          laborious
                                                                           ; but if

the obstructions have been artificially made, or consist of a
natural and solid substratum, it may be reasonable to presume
that the openings once made will be permanent, or at all events
require but little attention to maintain. Appearances would
seem to indicate that the shoals in the Shannon come almost

all under the two latter descriptions."
    The Report of the Parliamentary Committee on this sub
ject, in 1834, states, that "great detriment has arisen to the
navigation from the land-floods, so prevalent upon the river,
and over which there is no machinery for exercising any
control."

The main question appears to be, whether the free and natural
flow of the floods is to be arrested by locks, dams, and other
works ?

Although the principles which have guided the operations of
our engineers have been various and contradictory, in general
the practice has been to confine the freshes by artificial works,
as in the Clyde, Witham, and                              rivers, and to
receptacles for tidal waters to      other                 full extent.   pAresceorvnetrathrye
                                      their

proceeding has tended to ruin many of our rivers and estuaries,
whereby the drainage and navigation have been greatly im
peded, and the destruction of several of our harbours, such as

the Dee and Rye, occasioned.
The effects of embankments in Plymouth and Portsmouth
harbours, and particularly in the estuary of the Mersey, (one
third of the ancient capacity of which has been filled up by en
480 FOURTH REPORT-- 1834.

croacbments,) have materially diminished the depths of the sea-
channels, and a consequent deterioration of the harbours has
been the result.

On the Course, Dimensions, Inclinations, and Velocities of the
   River Thames, and the Effects which have been occasioned to
  the River by the removal and rebuilding of Old and New
   London Bridges, according to the Observations and Experi
   ments which have been made on the River during the Years
   1832, 1833, and 1834, by Messrs. George and John Rennie.

The general course of the river Thames is from west to east.
Like other rivers, it forms the drainage of a very extensive
district of country by means of rivulets and streams, which con
duct the waters of the uplands into one great artery, or trunk,
which conveys them to the sea. The total number of these

affluents  so circumstanced may be about twenty.         of country
           difficult to estimate the superficial extent
  It is
drained by the river Thames, but it cannot be less than 5000
square miles.
The course of the river is very tortuous and winding, being
double of its distance by a straight line.
The navigable distance from London to Lechlade is about
14G£ miles ; but from Sheerness the total distance is 204y
miles. The total fall of the river, from Lechlade to low-water
mark, is 258 feet, or twenty-one inches per mile; and this fall
is nearly uniform, although there are places where the fall varies
from nineteen inches to thirty-two inches per mile, as shown in
the following Table ; but in no instance is the law of the funi
cular curve of M. Gerard established.
              REPORT OX HYDRAULICS. -- PART II.                                                                               487

              Rivers Isis and Thames.

        Names of Places.          Length.                                                             I|  Fall  in feet   Ratio of In.
                                                                                                           per  Mile,    j clinationg.

                                                                             Miles.  Fur.  Feet. In.

From Lechlade at St. John's Bridge                                                    0i    47 0
                                                                                      0      13 11
to Oxford at Folly Bridge . .     28                                                                      1-68             3 1*43
                                                                                      0      27           1-73
From Oxford to Abingdon Bridge    9                                                   0      21                            u7 0B
                                                                                      0      19           1'95
From Abingdon to Wallingford                                                          0      12           1-31            j a'l i
                                                                                      0      15
Bridge                            14                                                                      214             TB3TJ"
                                                                                      0      13 6
From Wallingford to Reading Bridge. 18                                                0      15 8         1-35            tttVt
From Reading to Henley Bridge                                                         6                   1-86
                                  9                                                   6       66                           30 4 1
                                                                                             19 8         1-93           TTTTTT
From Henley to Marlow Bridge      9                                                   0                   1-96
                                                                                      0       29          1-44           IfflTTT
From Marlow to Maidenhead Bridge  8                                                            21         1-45

From Maidenhead Bridge to Wind                                                                            1145
                                                                                                          1052
sor Bridge                        7

From Windsor to Staines Bridge    8

From Staines to Chertsey Bridge   4

From Chertsey to Teddington Lock 13
From Teddington-Lock to London

Bridge                            19

From London to Yantlet Creek .    40

From Lechlade to Yantlet Creek    186 4 218 0

                          Deduct 40 0

From Lechlade to London . .       146 4

The velocity of the Thames might be expected to fol
low the law of variation of the inclinations; but the natural
obstructions which exist in all parts of the river upwards, from
bends, shoals, islands, weeds, &c., and the artificial obstacles
from weirs, pound-locks, fishing-aytes, &c., render it impos
sible to ascertain the velocity correctly. Much depends also
upon the volume of water passing down the river, and the use
of flashes.

   In general the velocity may be estimated at from half a mile
to two miles and three quarters per hour, but the mean velocity
may be reckoned at two miles per hour. In the year 1794 the
late Mr. Rennie found the velocity of the Thames at Windsor
two miles and half per hour.
The produce of the river varies also with the situation and

the seasons.

....The river when gauged in a very dry season in June, 1794,
at Windsor, produced 961 cubic feet per second;
at Laleham,
                                 1153                                                      do.

at Kingston Bridge . 1600                                                                  do.

According to Messrs. Rennie's experiments made on the 28th and
29th of May 1835, the produce was 1700 cubic feet per second j
and on the 29th of May, after rain . 1800
                                                                                           do.                           do.
438 FOURTH REPORT 1834.

The surface of the river, however, stood about eighteen inches
above the summer level.

   According to Dr. Halley's computation, the quantity of water
which passes through Kingston Bridge, upon the average, per
second, amounts to 7920 cubic feet = 684,288,000 cubic feet

per day, and 239,765,120,000 cubic feet per annum : he calcu
lated the surface of country drained by the Thames and its

tributary streams to be equal to an area of 5026| square
miles, or 140,129,776,600 superficial feet; and taking the
average depth of rain which falls over the above surface in the
course of a year to be twenty-four inches, amounting, conse
quently, to 280,259,555,200 cubic feet, he found this to be

40,494,435,200 cubic feet more than the quantity carried down
by the river Thames to the sea ; and he therefore concluded that
one seventh of the whole was absorbed and evaporated.

   Mr. Anderson, of the Grand Junction Water-works, stated
in his evidence given before the House of Commons in 1834,
that he had on the 4th of December, 1830, ascertained that the
quantity of water flowing down the river Thames at Staines was
2050 cubic feet per second ; but as the river was then about
four feet above its summer level, not more than about one third
of the above quantity would be carried down the river during the
dry season.

   Mr. Anderson further stated, that he had ascertained that the
quantity of water flowing over the weir at Teddington Lock in
the month of June, 1834, amounted to 700 cubic feet per second
when there were eighteen inches of overfall, and 1260 cubic
feet per second when there were two feet of overfall ; the
mean therefore of these three quantities being 1337 cubic feet
per second, gives 115,516,800 per diem, or 42,163,632,000
cubic feet per annum; leaving, therefore, agreeably to Dr.
Halley's computation of the surface of country drained by the
river Thames, rather better than five sixths of the quantity of
rain which falls in the course of the year to be absorbed and

evaporated.
    Below Teddington weir the river is under the combined in

fluence of the freshes and tides, and the impediments which
they meet with from the different bridges.

   Previously to the erection of the old London Bridge, in the
year 1209, there can be no doubt that the state of the river was
very different from what it now is, and that many of the low
lands which are now embanked out, were formerly covered both
by the floods and tides. The old bridge, although it obstructed
the flow of the tides to their full height, operated reversely with
the land- waters, by penning them back; and in extreme cases
              REPORT ON HYDRAULICS. PART II.                  489

the difference of level was found to be occasionally as much as
fourteen inches between the high water below and above bridge,
and five feet seven inches between low-water mark above and
below bridge, depending of course on the state of the freshes and
tides. The bridge was considered to act like a pound-lock, and,
by penning up the water, to tranquillize the motion of the cur

rent, and deepen the navigation above. In consequence, how
ever, of the danger and inconvenience arising from both the im

peded navigation through the bridge and the floods, Mr. George

Dance was instructed by the Corporation of London, in the year
1746, to draw up a series of queries, which were addressed to the

Royal Society.
    The result was a Report from the Society requesting certain
information relative to the tides, which however did not elicit
anything positive upon the subject until the year 1754, when the
erection of Blackfriars Bridge was contemplated. The opinions
of Mr. Robertson, as detailed in Dr. Hutton's Mathematical
Tracts, were given on the unfounded supposition that the pro
posed bridge was to be built with piers and starlings like London
Bridge, and to produce a similar obstruction. The enlarge
ment of the water-way in the year 1759, by lowering the
surface of the water several inches, caused a diminution both

in the depth of the water, and in the power of the water-works.
The area of the water-way was again contracted, and the river
restored to its former state, on the supposition that the naviga
tion would have been otherwise injured, and the low lands over
flowed. And when the question of rebuilding the bridge came
    be agitated, it was      argued, That the old
to  check the velocity       of the river both ways           b;r--idgtehaat caten dinacsreaasbeadr
to

velocity in the river would impede rather than accelerate the
                             wherries and small    craft could not stem the
ncauvrriegnatt;io--n,thaast  the bed of the river  would be laid dry during
the ebb tide;-- and, lastly, that the upper part of the river
would be choked with mud, and all the low grounds on either
side of the river would revert to marshes and be rendered un

inhabitable.
    On the other hand it was contended, That the tides would not
                                                              formerly, or fall lower
rise  more than a            f--ewthiantchtehse  higher than  not only acted as a
than    three feet;                               old bridge

dam to check the flux and reflux of the tides, but tended

to pen back the land-waters, and to cause floods above ; and
that the proof of the bridge causing such an effect was
the greater prevalence of    floods before the enlargement of
waterway of the old bridge   in the year 1759, than afterwards  t; h--e

that the decrease in the velocity of the river tended to assist
400 FOURTH REPORT -- 1834.

tmheudf;il--lintghaut pinadnedpernadiesnintlgy  the bed by depositions   of gravel and
                                                 of the annual loss of  lives and pro

perty, occasioned by the contracted waterways of the bridge,

the navigation was at times wholly impeded ; whereas, by re
moving the dam, the great increase in the velocity of the current
would clear the bed of the river, facilitate navigation, and effect

a more    lapnedrf-efclot oddrsai;n--agtehaot fththeericvoeur nbteryingbymthoereqpueicrkfeecrtlpyasesminpgtieodff
of the

at each reflux, the flux would have less time to fill the increased
                                                 before it had attained its
void  ;   and that,    therefore,               would have begun to run      dgorweante;s--t sthuar t
face      elevation,    the tide
      of

although many shoals would have undoubtedly been exposed,
yet the increased velocity of the current, assisted by dredging
the hard places, would very soon reduce the channel to its ancient
depth. The latter assertions have been verified to their full ex
tent, as will be seen hereafter.

The phenomena of the tides in the port of London have been
very ably discussed by Mr. Lubbock and by the Rev. Mr. Whewell
i1n83th4e, --Phthileosfooprmhiecar lgeTnrtlaenmsaanctiionnhsisfopratpheersyecaornsta1i8n3in1g,
                                                                                                1833, and
                                                                                                numerous

tables compiled from 13,073 observations made at the London
Docks in a period of nineteen years, viz. from January 1st,
1808 to the 31st of December, 1826, with the corrections for
the time of high water, as it is affected by the right ascensions,
declinations, and parallaxes of the sun and moon ; and the latter
in his paper on the empirical laws of the tides in the port of
London, and in his essay towards a first approximation to a map
of cotidal lines.
   In the                                                                                        says Mr.
Whewell,   ca"sethoef  the times of high water especially,
                       general course of the variations of                                      the quan
tities is as regular as can be expected, and as is requisite for
my formulae. The heights are much more anomalous ; pro
bably they are more affected by winds, &c. than the times are :
and when we reflect that the tide at London may be affected by
the operation of causes in a remote part of the ocean, propa
gating their effect by the progression of the tide-wave, we shall
not be surprised at considerable deviations from the rule. The
trade- winds and other winds of the tropical regions may be felt
in our tides, and may even affect the means of long series of
observations ; for it is to be recollected that the averages which
we obtain are not the averages of the effects of the sun and
moon alone, but the averages of their effects, together with that
"of meteorological causes.
                                                observed,  that  the peculiar circum
      It is moreover to be

stances of London in having a tide compounded of two tides
                KEPORT ON HYDRAULICS. PART II.                491

arriviug by different roads, after journeys of different lengths,
may easily be supposed to give rise to additional chances of

irregularity."

   In reference to the causes of inaccuracy in tidal observations,
Mr".  Whewell
      There is  says,                       or  all  the  statements
                in fact no doubt that most

of such discrepancies are founded in a mistake, arising from the
comparisons of two different phsenomena, namely, the time of
high water,     and   the time of  the  change from the flow  to the
ebb current.          some cases   the   one and in some the  other
                  In

of these times has been observed as the time of the tide ; and

in this manner have arisen such anomalies as have been men

tion"edT.he time of the change of current or the time of slack

water never coincides with the time of high water, except close
in upon the shore, and within its influence; the interval of the
two times is generally considerable. Great confusion has been
produced by these two times not being properly distinguished ;
so great, indeed, that almost all the tide observations which we

pos"seTshsearpeerosfuadsoiounbtfuthl avtaluine.waters affected by tides the water

rises while it runs one way, and falls while it runs the opposite
way, though wholly erroneous, is very general."

   Mr. Whewell instances the case of the waters of the river
Dee at Aberdeen, which have almost a constant current to

seaward, notwithstanding the opposite direction of the flood-
tide of the ocean. Many instances could also be adduced of
similar phsenomena constantly occurring in our estuaries and

rivers.

   In the river Thames the motion of the current continues for
some time after the tide has made its mark, which is undoubt
edly owing to the momentum. In general the tides of the river
Thames have been found to observe considerable regularity both
in their elevations and periodical times, except when influenced

by winds and floods. In comparing, however, the sea- with the

river-tides a considerable discrepancy is found to prevail in the
elevations ; in some cases on account of the convergence or
swelling of the tidal wave, on the principle of the conservation

of mechanical force, as in the Severn, &c, and in other cases a

lowering of the surface by expansion, as in the Mersey, which
is very narrow at its mouth.

   In the river Thames the height of the tidal wave diminishes

much less from the effect of friction and obstacles than might
be expected. From reference to Mr. Lloyd's observations on
4-92 FOURTH REPORT 1834.

the rise of the tides at Sheerness, with the mean of Mr. Lub-
bocks at the London Docks, it appears that

J\The spring tide high water at the London Docks                 o-oiei
above the same at Sheerness, is                     .. .
                                                                             0-2068

The mean high water      ditto   ditto              ditto        2-2429

                                                                         0-1050

The neap tide            ditto   ditto              ditto        2-3579
                                                                              0-6900

.....The spring tide low water   ditto              ditto        1-6679
                                 ditto              ditto                     0-3680
The mean level of the tides
                                                                 2-0359

Or, taking more correctly the half difference between ">
       spring high and low water at Sheerness, the L 1-7249
mean spring level is                                       J

It seems from the above summary, that as the water decreases
in height, so the height of the water's surface at London Docks
above the same at Sheerness also decreases, with the exception
of spring tides at the London Docks and the neap tide. These are
the means, not of the highest tides, but of the tides at a parti
cular time of the moon's southing : at Trinity high-water mark
at London Bridge, it was found by Mr. Lloyd to be 1-9040
above mean spring tide high-water mark at Sheerness.
With respect to the influence of the winds on the tides in the
river Thames, Mr. Lubbock states, on                                         of Sir
John Hall, of the St. Katharine Docks,              the    a"utdhuorriintyg
                                                    that                     strong

north-westerly gales, the tide marks high water earlier than
otherwise, and does not give so much water, whilst the ebb
tide mi is out later and marks lower ; but upon the gales abating
and the weather moderating, the tides put in, and rise much
higher, whilst they also run long before high water is marked,
and with more   veAlocsitoyuothf -cwuersrteenrtly;  nor do they  run out so long
or so low, &c.                                      gale has a   contrary effect

generally, and an easterly one gives some water ; but the tides
in all these cases always improve the moment the weather
moderates."

The very valuable tables of Mr. Lubbock, compiled with his
corrections from upwards of ten thousand observations, have
contributed very largely to our knowledge on this subject.
From a series of levels and observations made on the tides in

September and October 1820, between the entrance of London
Docks and Westminster Bridge, by Mr. Francis Giles, for the
Select Committee of the Bridge-house lands, the following were
found to be the facts :

1st, The high water of spring tides at the entrance of the
REPORT ON HYDRAULICS. -- PART II.  498

London Docks averaged a level of 1'5 inch higher, and ten
minutes earlier time, than at the lower side of London Bridge ;

   2nd, The low water of spring tides at London Docks averaged
a level of three inches lower, and nine minutes earlier time, than
at London Bridge ;

   3rd, The high water of neap tides at London Docks averaged
a level of one inch higher, and eight minutes earlier time, than at
London Bridge;

   4th, The low water of neap tides at the London Docks aver
aged a level of two inches lower, and fourteen minutes earlier
time, than at London Bridge.

   It was found also, That high water of the highest spring tides

occurs at three or four o'clock, and high water of neap tides at
eight or nine o'clock :

   The flow of the spring tides is from four to five hours ; and
the ebb from seven to eight hours and half :

    The high water of spring tides produced an average fall
through London Bridge of eight inches, but the greatest fall up
wards was 1'1 inch:

    The low water of spring tides produced a fall of 4'4 inches
through the bridge; but the greatest fall was 5-7 inches :

    The high water of neap tides through London Bridge upwards
produced a fall of 5 inches :

   At the low water of neap tides the fall upwards was 2'1 inches ;

but the least fall at low water was 1'1 inch.

   It appeared also, That it took forty minutes after low-water

spring-tides to produce slack water under the bridge with a
flood tide ; two hours with a flood of neap, and with an ebb
spring tide thirty minutes after high water, and fifteen minutes
after an ebb of neap tides :

   That the time of high water was about ten minutes earlier at
London than at Westminster Bridge :

   That the mean low-water line has a fall of--

        4-0 in. from Westminster to Waterloo Bridge ; 7 min. later at Westminster
                       than at Waterloo Bridge.

       4-3 do. from Waterloo to Blackfriars Bridge ; 6 ditto.
       3-2 do. from Blackfriars to Southwark Bridge ; 5 ditto.
       0-5 do. from Southwark to London Bridge; 4 ditto.

                                                                                   A
                                                                                                       "f                                                                                  s 0a H
                                                        "f

                                                                                     by

'A
Statement             shoiving  the Secti"nal         Areas          the River    Thames,                   taken                    in the Years          1823 and          1831,

                                                                     Messrs.      Rennik.

                                No. of S=urvBeyv. in       By        Difference in 1811. ScuBryvev     By   Difference in 1831.                      By         By    Difference in 1831.
                                Section.              Survey in                                     Survey                                      Survey in  Survey in
                                              1823.   1831.                       in 1813. in 1831.                                             1813.
                                                                                                                                                              J831.

                                              Sectional Area of the               Sectional Area                                                Total Sectional Area
                                                Tidal Water below                   below Low.                                                  of the River Thames
                                                Trinity High-water                 water Hark.                                                   below Trinity High.
                                                           Mark.
                                                                                                                                                       water Mark.

About 111 yards north of)                     sup feet. sup feet            sup feet sup feet sup feet                               sup. feet                                  sup feet
                                      1 1 11                         increase 11 111                                         a                  HI,.-US               increase      181
                                1             11111   1p11                                                               in1111 decrease 411               11,11

Near King's Arms Stairs1                      1p111   .,,            ditto    101 1011              1181 increase 11.m                          1111       1-11       ditto     1110       O -J

                                              1p1.m   111,1          ditto    1111 111              111                       ditto  81 19,11              11.m1      ditto     1111
                                              1p111   1pp1           ditto                                                    ditto                                   ditto      111
                                                                              .m1 1111 111                                           1p 111181 11,11                                       X
                                                                                                                                                                                           Co
                                                                                                                                                                                           --

                                11 1-11               .m,181         ditto    1"  111               101     decrease 111                        11111      11,11      decrease      11

Between  Blackfriars  and  )    .m ,,.m                              ditto    111 110               110                       ditto  1p 1pp1               111111 increase          111

                                                      1-.m1

                      N.B.-- Since the above Sections were taken the Areas have increased                                            much greater ratio.
                REPORT ON HYDRAULICS. -- PART II.                                  495

Gradation of the Ebbing and Flowing                of          the Tide       at London
  Bridge, taken above and below, on
   being the day of the new moon ; by              the         G29itlheso.f   July 1821,

                                                  Mr.

                                   Above Bridge.

Low water at Pepper Alley 50 min. High water at Pepper Alley 35 min.
                                               past 2 o'clock in the afternoon.
past 9 o'clock in the morning.

                      Flood Tide.                              Ebb Tide.

Depth                              /° "        1st hour, fall                      ft. in.
    commenced                            2 11                                       21
                                               2nd ditto                            27
1st hour rise                                  3rd ditto                            20
2nd ditto                                                                           19
3rd ditto                             3 0 4th ditto                                 15
4th ditto
45 minutes                            2 10     5th ditto                            12
                                      28       6th ditto                            10
                                      10       7th ditto                            0 11
                                                                                    56
                                               55 minutes

                                               Depth at low water

4 hours and 45 minutes .18 5 7 hours and 55 minutes                                18 5

                                   Below Bridge.

Low water at Coxe's Quay, 30 min.              High water at Coxe's Quay, 18 min.
         past 9 o'clock in the morning.             past 2 o'clock in the afternoon.

                Flood Tide.           ft in.                       Ebb Tide.       ft in.

Depth of water when flood 1 . ,,               lsthour.fall                         21
                                   /           2nd ditto                            44
commenced                                      3rd ditto                            31

1st hour, rise                        59                                            27
                                                                                    23
2nd ditto                             5 4 4th ditto
                                                                                    19
3rd ditto                             2 9 5th ditto                                 16

4th ditto                             2 5 6th ditto                                 0 11
                                                                                    04
48 minutes                            1 4 7th ditto

                                               59 minutes

                                               Depth left

4 hours and 48 minutes . 18 10 7 hours and 59 minutes                              18 10

.Difference between the Levels of high- and low-water Spring         ft.      in.
   Tides, between Rotherhithe and Battersea, in the year 1820. . 21
           Rotherhithe Old Horse Ferry                                        10
           London Old Bridge
                                                                   18 2

           Blackfriars                                             14 9

           Westminster                                             12 6

           Vauxhall                                                12 2

           Battersea                                               11 6

From Battersea Bridge to London Bridge . . 5 miles.
From London Bridge to Old Horse Ferry . . l£ ditto.
From London Bridge to the Nore                                     44 ditto.
496 FOURTH REPORT -- 1834.

The following observations were made in March 1833 :

                                                       March 6. March 7. March 8.

The difference in time of high water at London \       h. m.                 1 42  h. m.
Bridge after that at Sheerness                      /  1 34
                                                                                   1 36

The rise of tide at Sheerness                          ft. in. ft. in. ft. in.
                          Fresh Wharf.                 18 3 18 11 18 7

            New London Bridge .                                     20 8 19 10
The fall through the site of Old London Bridge
The difference of level of High-water mark at Lon- 1   IS 1 18 6 18 3

don Bridge above that at Sheerness                  J                  22 17

                                                        25 2 7 29

\The difference of level of Low-water mark at Fresh                          0 10 1 7
Wharf above that at Sheerness                       f

   N.B. --The above levels are from the Trinity datum as transferred from Lon

don Bridge to Sheerness by Captain Lloyd.

Observations and Experiments upon the Velocity of the Tides
                          of the River Thames.

The earliest experiments on this subject with which we are
            are those of  Mr.           H.                                   in the Phi
acquainted  Transactions  for                Syaeuamr are1z7,20i,ns"erOtend
losophical                              the                                  the strength

and gradual increase and decrease of the Tides of flood and ebb in
the river Thames, as observed in Lambeth Reach, off Manches

ter Stairs, and in the middle of the river, with a new instrument
called the Marine Surveyor, on the 9th and 18th of June 1790,
both with spring and neap tides."
   These experiments are interesting, as showing the effect of

Old London Bridge on the river previously to the alteration of
the bridge and enlargement of the waterway in the year 1754.

   Mr. Saumarez's tables indicate the depth and velocity of the
floods and ebb of spring and neap tides for every fifteen minutes,
and the following are the results :
                                                                   hra. min.
.... ...Ditto
The time of flood spring tide was only                          3 50
....Ditto   ebb . ditto                                         8 40
.... ....Ditto                                                  4 50
            flood neap ditto
                                             ditto     ....7 35
            ebb                                                  miles per hour.
                                                                  2'00
The greatest velocity in flood spring tides was
Ditto                           ebb ditto                            1-61

Total number of miles run by the flood spring tide . . 5*25
Ditto
                                             ebb 10-50

The greatest velocity in neap tides was                                            1'44
       Ditto, with ebb of neap tides                                               l'SO

The total distance run with a flood of neap                                        4*75
      Ditto, with an ebb of ditto                                                  7*75
                REPORT ON HYDRAULICS. PART II.                                              497

   According    to     the  eflxopoedrimtideentsareo, --f Mr.     Giles  in  the  year  1823,
the velocities         the
                of

From London Bridge to Putney Bridge, 2^ miles per hour ;
    Between     London, Southwark, and                   aWree,s--tminster   Bridges,
               an ebb tide the velocities                                               2   do.
And with

Between Westminster and Waterloo Bridges, 2 miles per hour;
Between Waterloo and Blackfriars Bridges, 2J do. ;
Between Blackfriars and London Bridges, 2$ do.

Experiments on the Flood Tide of the River Thames from London Bridge,
      \9thofJune, 1834.* (Wind W.S.W. Fresh breeze and clear.)

Name of place.          Time.       Tide , Distance    Time       Velocity        Remark!.
                                 Gauge at from       from low     at each
                                 London London
                                  Bridge. Bridge.     Water.        place.

London Bridge . . .         min. tt.   in.  miles.                   miles per
Southwark do                  6 17     3             hrs. min. hour.
Blackfriars do                              00
Waterloo do                 30 14     11              0 31 000 Float put in at centre.
Hungerford Market                      0    0-28      0 55 0-70 Centre of centre arch
Westminster Bridge          63 13      5
Horse Ferry                                 0-75          18 216 4th City arch.
Vauxhall Bridge . .         14 11     10     1-34
Chelsea Col. (Stairs)       23 10      3     1-50         39 1-68 2nd City arch.
Chelsea Bridge . . .        30 9
                                      10    200          48 1-07
J mile above do. . .        i50 8                          1 2-30 6th Middlesex arch.
                              37      11    2-42
1 mile do. do. . . .        84 5            2-95         15 1-82
                            55 4      10    4-21         28J 2-33 Centre arch.
1 1 mile(Wandsworth)                    2                50 2-48
2 miles                                     504
                              9                          20 2-36 6th arch.
Putney Bridge . . .         20               5-54
2\ miles                                    6-04         34 214
3 miles from Chelsea                        6-54
                                                         45 2-73
    Bridge                                   7-04
                            31               7-48        50 2-73
3J miles                                     7-54
                            12                                 7 2-73
4 miles
                            50                                15  3-30 11th arch.
HammcrsmithBridge.                                       4 18     103
1K miles                    53|
5 miles (Chiswick)
'>'· miles                    6 09           8-04                 2-40       i- from Middlesex
6 miles                     20 0 8           8-54                                pier.
G\ White Hart,Barnes        30 0 8            9-04                2-14
Thirty yards above          35 0 10          9-20                            Tide had fallen 4 in
                            45 1 2            9-54                300            ches.
   the White Hart .                         1004
                              0 1 11        10-54                 2-00
                            15 2 11         11-04
                            35 4 5          11-29                 2-00
                            45 5 1
                                                           6 15   200

                                                                  2-00

                                                                  1-50

                                                                  1-50

                        1 50 5 5

                                 hrs. min.          ft.  in.
Low water at London Bridge ... 7 35 . . 20
High water at   ditto.           ...12 30 .. . 0         3        under Trinity high-water  mark.

                                                         8]

· These experiments were tried with floats immersed               at different depths; also with

Massey's patent log.

1834.                                       2K
498 FOURTH REPORT 1834.

Experiments on the Ebb Tide of the River Thames to London Bridge,
    19th of June, 1834. (Wind W.S.W. Fresh breeze and clear.)

Name of place.          Time.    Tide Distance                  Time Velocity   Remaikt.
                               Gauge at from                  from low at each
                               London London
                                Bridge. Bridge.                 Water. place.

Thirty yards above                               mile*.
    White Hart . . .
                        50          10           11-30                0-12
fiiWhiteHart, Barnes.          9                 11-29                 1-36
                          0          27 5        1104                 1-25
6 miles                                                                1-58
                        II                       10-54                2-07
~>mi iles                                        1004                 1-60
5 miles (Chiswick) .    85                                           211
Water Works             01                        9-66                 1-60
44 miles
Hammersmith Bridge,      5                        9-54              200
4 miles                                           9-20
.'ij miles               H                                            1-67
3 miles from Chelsea                              904                 1-62
                        19 10                                         0-72
    Bridge                                        8-54                2-11
2$ miles                24 10                                         2-22
Putney Bridge . . .     10 1!                                         2-00
                                                                      2-22
J2 miles                58 12       568 2816090  8-04
                                                                    200
1 mile(Wandsworth)      16J 12      10           7-54               206
                        214 13                   7-48
....1 mile              34 13                    7-04                 2-44
                                                 6-54                 2-25
4 mile above            174 14                   6-04                 2-55
Chelsea Bridge . .        21 14                  5-54
ChelseaBridge (Stairs)                           5-04                 2-26
Vauxhall Bridge. . . .  16 15                    4-21                 2-83
Horse Ferry                                      2-95
Westminster Bridge .    31 15                    2-42               313
Hungerford Market .                              2-00
Waterloo Bridge . . .   55 16                    1-50                 3-37
Blackfriars do          26 17                    1-34
Southwark do            40 17                                  under Trinity high-water mark.
London do               50 18                    0-75
                        "r\                      0-28
CustomHouse(centre)
Traitor'sGato(Tower)                 20 6 1      000
St. Katherine's Dock             18
                        20 18 10
  ....entrance          29 19
                        31 19
Miller's Wharf
                        42 19
                        51 19
                        77
                                            03

                                18
                        10 18
                        88
                              0

                                            06

Low water at London Bridge...  hrs. mill.                ft.

                               7    45 ... 19
                                                 0
High water at   ditto.         ...12 30 ...                 >
          REPORT ON HYDRAULICS. -- PART II.                                        WJ

Comparative Average Velocities of the River Thames, as taken upon
                 the Flood and Ebb Tides, in 1831 and 1833.

               Between Westminster and Waterloo Bridges.

Years.    First of Flood. Last of Flood. First of Ebb.                    Last of Ebb.

            Feet   Miles     Feet     Miles      Feet              Miles    Feet   Miles
             per                                                     per     per    per
          Second.  Hpoeurr.     per   Hpoeurr.      per                   Second.
                             Second.             Second.           Hour.           Hour.

1833      -2-507 = 1-709     2-833 = 1931        2-840 = 1-936            3-221 = 2-196
1831                         2-599 = 1-772       2-730 = 1-861            2-834 = 1-932
          2134 1-591

Increase .173      -118 1234          -159 111                     -075   -387     -264

          Between Waterloo and Blackfriars Bridges.

            Feet    Miles      Feet   Miles        Feet            Miles  Feet     Miles
             per     per        per    per          per            Hour.  per        per
          Second.            Second.             Second.
                   Hour.              Hour.                                        Hour.

1833.,..  2-881 .. 1-964     3-495 == 2-382      3-643 =* 2-483           3-981 .= 2-714
1831...                      3080 == 2-100                                3-271 == 2-230
          2-490 == 1-697                         3100 =. 2-113

Increase 1391      1267      1415     1282       1543              1370   1710     1484

          Between Blackfriars and Southwark Bridges.

            Feet   Miles     Feet     Miles      J"Feet | Miles            per     Miles
             Ptr   Hour.     per      Hpoeur r.     P«r        1   Hour.             per
          Second.                                Second.                     per
                                                 -4-629 3156              Second.  Hour.

1833. .   2-903 == 1-979     4-327 == 2-950      4-371 = 2-980            4-926 == 3-358
1831      2-635 == 1-796     4-468 .= 3046                                4-200 == 2-863

Increase 1268      1183      141      1096       1258              1176   1726     1495

          Between Southwark and New London Bridges.

            Feet    Miles    Feet     Miles      Feet              Miles    Feet   Miles
             per   Hour.     per      Hpoeur r. ;1Sepcoenr d.       per      per   Hour.
          Second.                                                         Second.
                                                                   Hour.

          2-610 == 1-779     4-241    == 2-8*91  ! 5-293       ==  3-609  4-785 =.3-263
          2-844 --= 1-938    4-89     .= 3-334     6050            4-124  5-625 == 3-835
                                                               =.

Decrease 1234      1159      1649     1443 1 -757                  1515   1840     1573

                                      2k 2
500        FOURTH REPORT 1834.

                     Greatest Velocities.
     Between Westminster and Waterloo Bridges.

     Years.    Quickest Flood. Quickest Ebb.

                 Feet   Miles    Feet   Miles
                  per     per     per    per
               Second.         Second.  Hour.
                        Hour.

     1833      3-505 = 2-389 3-333 = 2-272
     1831      3-230 = 2-200 2-990 = 2038

     Increase 1275      -189   1343     -234

     Between Waterloo and Blackfriars Bridges.

                 Feet   Miles  Feet     Miles
                  per          per      Hour.
               Second.  Hour. Second.

     1833      4-279 == 2-917  41 86 == 2-854
               3-880 == 2-640  3-600 == 2-490

     Increase 1399      1277   1526     1364

     Between Blackfriars and Southwark Bridges.

                 Feet   Miles  Feet     Miles
                  per                   Hour.
               Second.  Hour. Second.

               5-217 => 3-556 5-428 == 3-700
               4-990 == 3-400 4-590 == 3129

     Increase 1227      -156   1838     1571

     Between Southwark and New London Bridges.

                 Feet   Miles  Feet     Miles
                  per   per per         Hour.
               Second.  Hour. Second.

     1833 ...... 4-788 = 3-204 5-725=3-903
               5-540 = 3-777 8160 = 5-560
     1831

     Decrease  1752     -513 I 2-435    1-657
REPORT ON HYDRAULICS. PART II.  501

   The surveys which have been made under the direction of the
late Mr. Rennie, by order of the Lords Commissioners of the
Admiralty and of the Corporation of the City of London, both

above and below bridge, at different periods, and also by Mr. Tel
ford previous to the building of New London Bridge, have left

ample data of the course and sections of the river Thames ; but
no measures seem to have been adopted to ascertain the effect
which the removal of the Old London Bridge was likely to
occasion in the operation of the tides ; and, as before stated,
opinions being very contradictory, it occurred to Messrs. Rennie
to institute a series of observations for that purpose.

    Accordingly, the new bridge having been opened to the public
in the year 1831, the demolition and total removal of the old
bridge commenced on 22nd November following; and on the
25th, Mr. Combe (Messrs. Rennie's assistant) was instructed by
those gentlemen to proceed up the river to collect information,
and to make preparations for establishing a series of observations
at Putney, Kew, and Richmond Bridges, and at Teddington
Lock. Tide-gauges accurately adjusted by levelling to a tide-
gauge similarly fixed at New London Bridge, and at Fresh Wharf,
and a little below the bridge, were therefore fixed at these
places, and experienced persons were appointed to keep a daily
register of the high- and low-water marks as indicated by the
gauges. Accordingly, everything being ready by the 30th of
November, a simultaneous commencement was made at the dif
ferent places on the 1st of December, and the observations were
daily recorded in a book kept by each person and forwarded to
London every ten days, until the first of June 1832 ; and in order
to prevent any mistakes, the gauges were frequently visited

and inspected, and upon every occasion Mr. Combe found them
undisturbed and each person attentive to his duty. Up to the
first of June, however, scarcely any part of the bridge which

obstructed the waterway had been removed, with the exception
of two piers which had been cleared away for the accommoda
tion of the craft navigating upwards during the building of the
new bridge, the works of which nearly compensated for the en
largement of the waterway under the old bridge. These alter
ations had, however, lessened the fall at low water about one
foot.

    The flood or low water in the early part of the year having
been found to interfere so much with the free action of the tides,

and as at the commencement of the year 1833 there was a consi
derable fresh in the river, it was deemed unnecessary to resume
the observations until the beginning of the month of March; at
 which period, however, both in the year 1833 and 1834, the
502 FOURTH REPORT. -- 1834.

gauges were again correctly fixed, and recorded as before, and
the results of the three years have been separately and collec
tively analysed and compiled for three months in each year, as
follows :
The prevailing winds in the months of March, April, and Mav

were,          In the year 1832, northerly in excess ;

                        1 1833, north and south equal ;
                                     1834, north 2, south 1.

   The sectional areas at London Bridge :                                            Sup. feet

 Yean.                                                                                73/jQ

J1 825, previous to any alteration, in Old London Bridget                             8700
            below Trinity datum                                                      1 agon
1832, after two piers of the old bridge were removed . .
                                                                                     17600
j1833, when nearly the whole of the masonry and\
             starlings of the old bridge had been removed
1834, Old London Bridge entirely removed

SuambmovaeryanfdorbelTowhreTerinYietayrsdaotuf mH,igath-PuatnndeyL, oKwe-ww,ataenrd  Mark
mond Bridges, and Teddington Lock.                                                   Rich

                               AT PUTNEY BRIDGE.

                                     High Water.

Years. Tide*.           Above  fTt.  dat.  Below T. dat              ft. In.
                                     in.       ft. in.
1832. 88 stood from 1 1 to 5 9; mean of all the tides 1 11-17
2-41833. 84
                               1 4;                                  1 5761
4-41834. 89
                               1 7;                                  1 961b

                                     Low Water.

1832. 88stoodfrom       -10 0tol2 7; mean of all the tides 11 8-08
1833. 84                       9 9 12 5;                             11 3'94c
                        11 9-13 0;
1834. 89                                                             12 364d

                  Duration of the Day Flood Tides.

                        hrs. min. hrs. min.                          hr*. mm. sec.
00441832. 87 flowed from 2 45 to 4 30; mean of all the tides 3 50 13
1833. 80                       3 30;                                 3 40 26e
                                                                     4 56 37 f
1834. 89                       3 30;

               ft. in.

       b Or 0 1-56 I wn'ch ^e high-water mark had risen,
           Or
       c   Or  0  4-14  1 w"'ch      *he low-water mark had fallen.
       d       0  7-64
                        I

       ' Or 6 min' 24 sec I decrease *n *he duration of flood tides.
               REPORT ON HYDRAULICS. PART II.                                                       50;}

                           Conclusions.

   The changes at Putney Bridge, situated 7 miles 3 furlongs
above London Bridge, have been as follow :

1. The high-water mark at the top "13 ins. higher than in 1832
of spring tides stood in 1834 2 ditto . . ditto . .1833.
2. The high- water mark at extreme 14 do. . . ditto . . 1832.
of neap tides
                                     1833 3 ditto . . ditto . . 1833.

3. The high- water mark on average 1-56 higher than in 1832.
                                     1834 3*85 lower than in 1833.
tides

4. The low- water mark at the top 21 ins. lower than in 1832.
of spring tides stood in 1834 24 ditto . . ditto . 1833.
5. The low-water mark at the ex 5 ins. lower than in 1832.

treme of neap tides, in 1834               7 ditto . . ditto . . 1833.
...6. The low- water mark upon the         ....7*56ins.lowerthaniiil832.
average stood in           . 1834          11-70 ditto                                              1833.

7. The range of the flood tide upon        9-12 greater than in 1832.
the average was in . . 1834
8. The range of the flood tide, how        7"85 ditto . ditto . 1833.

ever, at the top of spring tides           15 ditto     ditto                                       1832.
was in                                     17 ditto     ditto                                       1833.
                                    1834

                                           f21 ditto    ditto . 1832.

9. The range of the flood tide at the 1 ditto less than in 1833.
extreme of neaps was in 1834 6 min. 24 sec. longer
                                           than in
                                                                                                    1832.

j10. The duration of the flood tide\16min. 11 sec. longer
upou the average was in 1834               than in                                                  1833.

                           AT KEW BRIDGE.

                           High Water.

               Above T. dat Below T. dat.
Years. Tides.  ft. in. ft. in.
88 stood from 1                            mean of all the tides 1                                  344
82 1                       170to-34                                           0
0-431832.                            8                                                              9-61*
                                     8                                                           1
1833.                                                                                               5'37b
1834. 89       2

                           Low Water.

88 stood       from 4       6 to 8         mean of all the tides  8                                 0'39
82                      4                                         7                                 559c
                           10-8
2-91832.                             11 ;

1833.                                10;

1834. 89       8 11;                                              9 0-88d

               " Or 0 5-83 which the high-water mark had risen.
               b Or 0 193 which the high- water mark had fallen.
               c Or 0 6-89 which the low-water mark had risen.
               d Or 1 0-49 which the low-water mark had fallen.
504 FOURTH REPORT-- 1834.

                 Duration of the Day Flood Tides.

                       hrs. min. hrs. min.                                  hrs. min. sec.
45--31 832. 88 stood from 2 15 to 4 0 ; mean of all the tides 3 5 6
1833. 82               1 15;                                                  2 50 54 a

1834. 89               2 30 3 30;                                             3 1 47b

                             Conchisions.

   The changes at Kew Bridge, situated 13 mil. 0 fur. 12 pol.

Jabove London Bridge, have been as follow :

1. The high-water mark at the top~l 5 ins. higher than in 183.2.
         of spring tides stood in 1834 2 ditto ditto 1833.
2.  The high- water mark at the ex-         |   ,                               1832.
                                                                                1833.
       treme of neapr tides stood in        \   h/  .lns-  ,lower  t.h, an  in
    V1Q8a3/(4..                             J|                                  1832.
                                                                                1833.
J3. The high-water mark upon the.\ 1*93 ditto                      ditto        1832.
    average stood in 1834                       7*76 ditto         ditto        1833.

4. The low-water mark at the top 1 44 ditto ditto
    of spring tides stood in 1834 "40 ditto ditto
5. The low-water mark at the ex
        treme of neap tides stood in            12      ditto      ditto        1S32.
          1834                                          ditto      ditto        1833.
                                                1.3

6.. The low-water mark upon the 12-49 ditto ditto 1832.
    average stood in 1834                   f*19-29 ditto ditto 1833.

7. The range of the tide upon the"1 10-56 greater thanin 1832
    average was in 1834                ....J 11*53 ditto ditto 1833
8. The range of the flood tide how
         ever at the top of spring tides                ditto      ditto        1832.
         was in 1834                                    ditto      ditto        1833.

9. The range of the flood tide at"              21      ditto      ditto        1832.
        the extreme of neaps was in             1       ditto      ditto        1833.
          1834

10. The duration of the flood tide              3 min. 19 sec. longer
         upon the average was in 1834                than in
                                                                                1832.

                                                10 min. 53 sec. ditto 1833.

11. The average of high-water mark"             3-49 ins. less than in 1832.
        stood at Kew Bridge above               3-94 ditto ditto 1833.
         that at Putney in 1 834
21. The average declivity of low-
        water line between Kew and 0-87.07. ditto ditto                         1832.
                                                                                1833.
     JPutney Bridges, per mile, was f 1 '3405 ditto ditto

         in 1834

    OthOrs.      min.  sec.  decrease  in the duration  of the  flood  tide.
    b Or 0       14    121

                   3   19 i
               REPORT ON HYDRAULICS. PART II.                                                                                 505

                        AT RICHMOND BRIDGE.

                                  High Water.

                        Abort Trin. dat. Below Trin. die.                                                             ft. in.
Yemri. Tides.           ft. in.                  ft. in.
2-31832. 88 stood from 1 10 to 3 9 ; mean of all the tides 0 8*67
1833. 84                2 0;                                                                                          0 2"76»
1834. 89                                                                                                              1 l"70b
                        1 11-3 7;

                                  Low Water.

1832. 88 stood from 1 4 to 5 6; mean of all the tides 4 4'23
9-1833. 84
                        0 5 2;                                                                                        3 7'41 «
7-1834. 89
                        4 6 4;                                                                                        5 573d

               Duration of the Day Flood Tides.

                        hra. min. hn . min.                                                    hn. min. lee.
1832. 84 flowed from 1 15 to 2 45 ; mean of all the tides 1 59 3
-1833. 84
- -1834. 89 --          1 15                     2 30;                                                                1 52 37e
                        1 15                     2 20;                                                                1 50 10f

                                  Conclusions.

   The changes at Richmond Bridge, situate 16 miles 0 fur. 6 pol.
above London Bridge, have been as follow :

J1. The high-water mark at the top"! 1 in. higher than in . 1832
    of spring tides stood in 1834 3                                              ins.   lower than in                      .  1833
                                                                                 i.ns.  l.,ho.iwg8h,eerrt.t,h,,haann          1l,1oa88ao33o«23
2.  Thet. rehmig8eh-woaeftenreamprarkt.i.d,aets  thse1,t,0o8e0o3xd4,j-TJ>  2,,   i.ns.                                i.n  .
                                                                                                                      i.n  .
        in                                                                 J7,,

J3. The high-water mark upon the\5-03 ditto                                                    ditto                       . 1832
4.      average stood in    . . . 1834                                     10-94 ditto                                     .1833
    The low-water mark                                                     39 ditto            ditto                       .1832
                          at the top ofl                                                       ditto
    /spring tides stood in . 1834 46                                                    ditto  ditto                       . 1833

5.  The low-water mark at                        thsetoeoxd-f10                         ^tto   ditto                       .1832
        treme of neap tides                                                                                                  1833
    . in.-;                                                                             d-     d-
                                                 1834J                                                                     .1832
6. The low-water mark upon the\13'50 ditto                                                     ditto                       . 1833
    average stood in . . . 1834J 22-32 ditto                                                   ditto

               ft. in.
    » Or 0 5-91 which the high-water mark had risen.
    0 Or 0 5-03 which the high-water mark had fallen.
    c Or 0 8-82 which the low-water mark had risen.
    * Or 1 1-50 which the low- water line had fallen,
            Or 6 min. 26 sec. >
         'r· Or 8 min. 53 sec. )                  jn the duration of th,, flood tide.
1834.
                                                 2 K*
506 FOURTH REPORT 1834.

    JThe range of the flood tide upon"! 8'47 ins.greaterthanin 1832
        the average was in . . 1834 11-38 ditto ditto . 1833
8.  The range of the flood tide how-                           ditto ditto                1832
        ever at the top of spring tides               j  14    ditto ditto                1833
                                                      V  2'2

     was in                                  1834 J
9. The range of the flood tide atl
        the extreme of neaps was >                       9 ditto            ditto      .  1832
        in 1834 J                                        6 ditto            ditto      .  1833

10. The duration of the flood tide                       8 m. 3 s. less     than in       1832
         upon the average was in 1834                    2 m. 2 7 s . less  than in       1833

11.  The average high water mark"                        310 ins. less than in            1832
       stood at Richmond Bridge                          3-23 ditto ditto                 1833
       above that at Kew in . 1834
                                             of low-
12.  The average   declivity                             13388 ditto        ditto         1832
       water line    between                   Rich      14776 ditto        ditto         1833

     mond and Kew Bridges, per

     mile, was in                            1834^

                             AT TEDDINGTON LOCK.

                                       High Water.

             Above           Tr"in. .  dat.  Below Trin. dat.                      ".     in.
                                       m     ft. in.                               0
22--020;Yean. Tides.                                           of all the                 5'13
                                                                            tides
1832. 76
           stood from 1 8 to 0 8 j mean                                            0 9-51»
                             2 8;
1833. 84                     I                                                     0 3'88b

1834. 87

                                       Low Water.

1832. 76 stood from 0 7 to 1 3 ; mean of all the tides 0 7'52
7-11833. 84
                             1 6;                                                  0 0-35c
9-21834. 89
                             0 7;                                                  1 9'16d

             Duration of the Day Flood Tides.

                             hrs. min. hrs. min.                                                         hrs. min. sec.
1832. 55 flowed from 0 45 to 2 45
-1833. 72                                                mean of all the tides 1 32 10
                             0 30 3 15                                                 1 36 2*
-1834. 71
                             0 30 2 30                                            1 13 5'

             ". in.
      Or 0 4-38 which the high-water mark had risen.
     6 Or 0 9-01 which the high- water mark had fallen.
     · Or 0 7-87 which the low-water line had risen.
     * Or 1 1-64 which the low water line had fallen.

     O«rr  ?1o9mmi"m' . 55l  )"ec'               in the  duration of the           tide.

                             sec.
     /'r                               decrease                             flood
REPORT ON HYDRAULICS. -- PART II.                  607

                  Conclusions.

   The changes at Teddington Lock, situated 18§ miles above
London Bridge, have been as follow :

1. The high-water mark at the top"! 6 ins. lower than in 1832
        of spring tide stood in 1834J12  ditto     ditto . 1833
2. The high-water mark at extreme \ 16   ditto     ditto . 1832
of neap tide stood in . 1834 16
                                         ditto     ditto . 1833

...3. The high- water mark upon the 9-91 ditto     ditto . 1832
average stood in  1834 13-39 ditto                 ditto . 1833

4. The low-water mark at the top 16 ditto ditto . 1832
of spring tide stood in 1834 '28         ditto ditto . 1833

5. The low-water mark at extreme 16 ditto ditto . 1832

of neap tide stood in . 1834 '13         ditto ditto . 1833

J6. The low-water mark upon the"! 13'64 ditto      ditto . 1832
        average stood in . . . . 1834 21'51 ditto  ditto . 1833
....7- The range of the tide upon the~ 4'63 in. greater than inl832
average was in    1834 8'12 ditto ditto . 1833

8. The range of the tide at the top 8    ditto     ditto . 1832
        of spring tide was in . 1834 15  ditto     ditto . 1833

9. The range of the flood tide at the 2 ins. less than in 1832
extreme of neaps was in 1834 2           ditto ditto .1832

10. The duration of the flood tide\19min.5sec. ditto 1832
        upon the average was in 1834J 22min.57sec. ditto 1833

11. The average high- water markT
        stood at Teddington Lock (3'98 ins. less than in 1832
above that at Richmond f2'48 ditto ditto . 1832
in 1834

12. The average declivity of low-  0512 ins. less than in 1832
water line between Tedding
Jton Lock and Richmond i '5529 ditto               ditto . 1833

Bridge, per mile, was in 1834
512 FOURTH REPORT -- 1834.

                  Summary Table of the Day Tides,
Showing the greatest and the least tides in March, April, and

   May, 1832, 1833, and 1834, at New London Bridge.

   In the first year none of the lower portions of Old London
Bridge, (with the exception of two piers,) which prevented the
natural flow of the tidal waters, were removed ; and in the se
cond year almost the whole of that structure was cleared away
as regarded the masonry and starlings, although the section of
the river was far from being completed ; many portions still re
maining one or two feet above low-water mark, and which were
finally removed in the year 1834.

fta    Fall through           Range of       Duration of            Surface of High Water          Surface of Low
S      Old London            Flood Tide.     Flood Tide.       above or below Trinity datum.         Water Mark
          Bridge.                                                                                  below Trinity
                                                                                                         datum.

j§ o                                                                 Greatest of
                                                                         Springs.
                Ift 4m
3                            n                         O.                          O·              it        o.

       23                        I!                                                                      51
             516                    h
1o                           3*                        53
                01                                          8
                     Sft. in. ft. in. ft. In. ft. in. h. m. h. m. ft.in. ft.       in. ft. in. ft. in.
                                                                       above
1832.                    3010 16 10                15                                        below 15      15
                                 999                           1 01  4             15                          5e
                                               88                                        90
1833.                        18 13             44  34 20             10 ditto                ditto 17 11 15

1834.                        19                                      9* 20                             3

In conclusion,                   it  may be stated, -- That the drainage of the

pdrisotvreicdts--btohradterbianrggeosn,  the river Thames has                      been greatly im
       ;                                 which used formerly' to                   be' tovved up from

Putney to Richmond                       by  horses, are             now carried   --bTyhtahte         current
from London Bridge                       to                          in one tide;                      the fall
                                             Richmond
of the low-water surface below Bridge has been so considerable
                                 in many                                           ground in their tiers at
as to cause  --shaipnsd,         that from         instances,        to            the tides, kept by Capt.
low-water                                             register       of
4
            3

                    :
                           ;;

                                                      a

                                                                                         1

                                                                                6
                                                                                             2

                                                                                                8
Maugham of the London Docks, the average depth at low-water

on the cill of Shad well Dock was ft. 10 in. below the Old Tri

nity datum and that where formerly there were feet in depth
upon the Dock cill, there are now only feet inches on the
average on the 5lh of November, 1834, the tide fell as low as
feet inches on the cill.

  The accompanying Plate shows the section of the river Thames,·
from actual survey, from the mouth of the river Kennet to the
Nore. The upper part could not be taken in time.

      During equinoctial gales in March, wind N.W., but the average rise barely
exceeded six inches above Trinity datum.
                      Ih'dtidVsmstitttr'Sritfuv.JJty-i, .

*:#^yt                RIVER THAMES,

                      HE

                      HE NORE LIGHT

17 lit

tr . . OF THE ."IT]) ' '                                   .m I ' .m

P- $ . ii

74 Trinity ,-;j'M/nr

lor Une  Kit,-,

£

                      11.1  II!'                           120 122 112 }?J miles
                                                                Arertuic

                                                           ./.«.'/..'»
                                        [ 513 ]

TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.

       1. MATHEMATICS AND PHYSICS.

       MATHEMATICS.

On the Application to Dynamics of a      General  Mathematical

   Method previously applied to Optics.  By W.    R. Hamilton,
M.R.I. A., Astronomer Royalfor Ireland.

The method is founded on a combination of the principles of
variations with those of partial differentials, and may suggest
to analysts a separate branch of algebra, which may be called,
perhaps, the Calculus of Principal Functions ; because, in all
the chief applications of algebra to physics, and in a very ex
tensive class of purely mathematical questions, it reduces the
determination of many mutually connected functions to the
search and study of one principal or central relation. In ap
plying this method to Dynamics, (having previously applied it
to Optics,) Professor Hamilton has discovered the existence of

a principal function, which, if its form were fully known, would
give, by its partial differential coefficients, all the intermediate
and all the final integrals of the known equations of motion.
Professor Hamilton is of opinion that the mathematical ex
planation of all the phenomena of matter distinct from the
phaenomena of life, will ultimately be found to depend on the
properties of systems of attracting and repelling points. And
he thinks that those who do not adopt this opinion in all its
extent, must yet admit the properties of such systems to be
more highly important in the present state of science, than
any other part of the application of mathematics to physics.
He therefore accounts it the capital problem of Dynamics, "to
determine the 3 n rectangular coordinates, or other marks of
position, of a free system of n attracting or repelling points, as
functions of the time," involving also 6 n initial constants, which
ldepend on the initial circumstances of the motion, and in-
1834.  2
514 FOURTH REPORT-- 1834.

volving, besides, n other constants called the masses, which
measure, for a standard distance, the attractive or repulsive

energies.
      Denoting these n masses by ml ml...mKy and their 3 n rectan
gular coordinates by xY                              xHynzn, and also the 3 n
component accelerations,               yv #,
                                       or second differential coefficients of

these coordinates,         taken       wLitahgrreasnpgeect's  to the time, by x"1 y"1
z"l...x",,y"nz''ni he      adopts                              statement of this pro
blem ; namely, a formula of the following kind,
             /8yS.«n0r»8ar +
                                                     + *"8») m 8U, . . (1.)

in which U is the sum of the products of the masses, taken two
by two, and then multiplied by each other and by certain func
tions of their mutual distances, such that their first derived
functions express the laws of their mutual repulsion, being
negative in the case of attraction. Thus, for the solar system,
each product of two masses is to be multiplied by the reci
procal of their distance, and the results are to be added in
order to compose the function U.
      Mr. Hamilton next multiplies this formula of Lagrange by
the element of the time d t, and integrates from the time o to

the time t, considering the time and its element as not subject
at present to the variation 8. He denotes the initial values,
or values at the time o, of the coordinates x y z, and of their
first differential coefficients x' if by a           + b z',
                                                                 b     and      6 a'V                 and
                                                                    ,,c
                                                                                           c*
                                                                                              ;

thus he obtains, from Lagrange's formula (1.), this other im
portant formula,
                                   -tfly -- VI + js'S* c'&c) = 8S, (2.)
  . m(a.JSx-a'$a
SS                         (u
                                +
        s
      being the definite integral

             =tT                 + 2-  31      {x'3           yi+  sH))      at-      -               (s-}

      If the known equations of motion, of the formsn

         m x"t = 8S=--xU,y,,       Wj  Jy,,'i  =     8--U        nit s"i  =         8U,            .  a>

                                                       y,                           -s--zt' .         (4..)
                           ,                    S, I j
                                                              ,
had been completely integrated, they would give the n coor                            3
dinates x z, and therefore also as a function of the time
                                                                                                       t,

the masses m,...m*,and the Gn initial constants a                                   b          a'S b'  cf;
                                                                                      c

so that, by eliminating the                    initial components of velocities
             we should in general obtain relation between the
7 «'  V  c'                                          b,
                                                         a
    n quantities m, x, y, z, a, c, which would give as
      +                    S,
         2                     t,

a function of the time, the masses, and the final and initial co
ordinates. We do not yet know the form of this last function,
              TRANSACTIONS OF TIIK SECTIONS.                                                                515

but we know its variation (2.), taken with respect to the 6 n co
ordinates ; and on account of the independence of their 6w va
riations, we can resolve this expression (2.) into two groups,
containing each 3 n equations : namely,

           j---=                                                =             ozi = rm  s1,
                                                                                                  ;.
           tixi                                                                                          .
                 m,  x1,                               , ^iy-i      rn.ii/i,            .                   (5.)

s-- = -- rtii a't                                    jT-br i = --nit #,       s--d = -- mt d,               (6.)
                                                                         ,
   at
0                                                                              6

    if                                                                             3

             S,

                                       ,
                                                    0
the first members being partial differential coefficients of the
function which Mr. Hamilton calls the Principal Function
of motion of the attracting or repelling system. He thinks
that analysts had perceived this principal function                                   b                     and
                                                                                         t,

                                                                                                   S,
                                                                                                          3
these groups of equations (5.) and (6.), they must have per
ceived their importance. For the group (5.) expresses the n
intermediate integrals of the known equations of motion (4.),
under the form of n relations between the time the masses
              xy1

                         z1,

                           3
m, the varying   coordinates x, y, z, the varying components of
velocities         and the n initial constants a c; while the
                                                       33 n final integrals of the same known
group (6.) expresses the                                 3« relations, with 6« initial and ar
differential equations, as
bitrary constants a be                                          d,
                                                       a'           between the time, the masses,
                                                          D

and the n varying coordinates. These n intermediate and
  n final integrals, was the problem of dynamics to discover.
3  3
                   it

Mathematicians had found seven intermediate, and none of the

final integrals.
   Professor Hamilton's solution of this long celebrated pro
blem contains, indeed, one unknown function, namely the
principal function            S,                       to the search and study of which he

has reduced mathematical dynamics. This function must not
be confounded with that so beautifully conceived by Lagrange,

for the more simple and elegant expression of the known dif
ferential equations. Lagrange's function states, Mr. Hamilton's
function would solve the problem. The one serves to form the
                                                       of motion, the other would give their
differential  equations                                in pursuing this new track, and in dis
integrals.
              To assist
covering the form of this new function, Mr. Hamilton remarks
that must satisfy the following partial differential equation
   i! it
            +
                                                         2
                                                                 2
of the first order and second degree, (the time being now made
to vary,)

           *£{G5)"*GD'+ CD'}-*. -w
                                                                   L,
516 FOURTH REPORT -- 1834.

which may rigorously be thus transformed, by the help of the

equations (5.),

                                                                    (8.)

J«/o 2m l\$x Ix / \ly cy                      \o z SzJ i

S, being any arbitrary function of the same quantities, t, m, x,
Ify, «, a, b, c, supposed only to vanish (like S) at the origin of
time.       this arbitrary function S, be so chosen as to be an
approximate value of the sought function S, (and it is always
easy so to choose it,) then the two definite integrals in the for
mula (8.) are small, but the second is in general much smaller
than the first ; it may, therefore, be neglected in passing to a
second approximation, and in calculating the first definite in
tegral, the following approximate forms of the equations (6.)
- - -may be used,
       --'  =  m a',  ---'  =  m V, --J       -- m t> . (9.)
                      So                  ec
       Ba

   In this manner, a first approximation may be successively and
indefinitely corrected. And for the practical perfection of the
method, nothing further seems to be required, except to make
this process of correction more easy and rapid in its appli

cations.
    Professor Hamilton has written two Essays on this new

method in Dynamics, and one of them is already printed in
the second part of the Philosophical Transactions (of London)
for 1834. The method did not at first present itself to him
under quite so simple a form. He used at first a Character
istic Function V, more closely analogous to that optical func
tion which he had discovered, and had denoted by the same
letter, in his Theory of Systems of Rays. In both optics and
dynamics, this function was the quantity called Action, consi
dered as depending (chiefly) on the final and initial coordinates.
But when this Action-Function was employed in dynamics, it
involved an auxiliary quantity H, namely the known constant
part in the expression of half the living force of a system ; and
many troublesome eliminations were required in consequence,
which are avoided by the new form of the method.

   Mr. Hamilton thinks it worth while, however, to point out
briefly a new property of this constant H, which suggests a
new manner of expressing the differential and integral equa
tions of motion of an attracting or repelling system. It is often
                    TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                                                                     517

useful to express the 3 n rectangular coordinates a-, y, «,...
     a"» yn *» . as functions of 3 n other marks of position, which may
be thus denoted,                             ^...rtg, and 3n other new variables,
             y                                    ;     if

w, wi...m9t, be introduced, and defined as follows,ayfJ
                                        >),.Wi = x. (^jL* +
                                                        y              6+           Jf) . (l0-)
                                                                          n            .
                                                         Jf
                                                                                *>           6

                                                                                                        »j
                                                                                                                 ;
it it  is, in general, possible to express, reciprocally, the n va
     riables x x                           as functions of these
                                                                                  new variables ^

       is, therefore, possible to express, as such function, the
                                                                                    a

     -quantity                                                         U,              . (11.)
               HH == 2y. !(*"+*»+**)
                  F                                     6
     under the form      F2
                                                                            .
                                  is                                                .

                                                                              is

                                                                                                     .
                                                                                                        >j
           H = («,,... v*, q,,... i)3,) -- Ufop... >)»,), . (12.)

     in which the part                       rational, integer, and homogeneous of
           second dimension with respect to                             the variables or. Now
     the   Hamilton has found that when the
                                                                       quantity H expressed
     Mr.
     in this last way, as function of these n new variables, c, its
                        a

     variation may be put under this form,
                     8H = 2(V*«-- dll),
                                                                                                                      (13.)

       w' denoting the first differential coefficients of these new va
     ij'
                    ij
                                                                                                      3
     riables or, considered as functions of the time. The n dif
     ferential equations of motion of the second order, (4.), between
     the rectangular coordinates and the time, for any attracting or
     repelling system, may therefore be generally transformed into
     twice that number of equations of the first order, between these
           -variables and the time, of the forms
66                                            H         jo--n                                                         ,,..
   n
                                             «--                                                                      (14.)
          6          Iti=                         *t =
                                    ^

                                      ,

                                                     i

                                                t,
                                                           6 is
     To integrate this system of equations,                            to assign, from them,
       n relations between the time the n variables rjt or,- and
                                                                                    it,

                                                                                                       ,
     their n initial values which may be called et pt. Mr. Hamilton
     resolves the problem, under this more general form, by the
     same principal function as before, regarding                                      however, as
                                             S                         of final and initial posi

                                                                   ij
                                                                    e
     depending now on the new marks
     tions of the various points of the system. For, putting, in this
     new notation,
                                                        - H) <">
                    S=X (X.w                         VH                                                               (15.)
                                                                                           
                                                                                                   ·
                                                                                                           ·
                                                                                                                   ·
518 FOURTH REPORT 1834.

and considering the time as given, he finds now the formula of
variation
           2S = 2 (or a, -pie),
                                                                                                      (16.)

and therefore the 6 n separate equations
           -vt -- -oojSi-jj , Pi =
                                                       -oro- »                                          Cf%1*'?-)\
                                                                                                      of va
                                                        S et
                                                                                                         (A.)
which are forms for the sought relations.                                                                (B.)
      Professor Hamilton thinks that these
                                                                                       two  formulas

-riation, (13.) and (16.) namely
           2H= 2
      fral                                 w  ar1

and                      ;

               as = ^(wa.) -pie),          a

                                                                      (u*
                                                                          a

                                                             S
                                                                           a2

                                                                                 i]),
are worthy of attention, as expressing, under concise and
simple forms, the one the differential and the other the inte-
       equations of motion, of an attracting or repelling system,
                                           other problems of dynamics, be
  "hey  may be extended to
sides   this capital problem.                The expression H can always

easily be found, and the function can be determined with in

definite accuracy by method of successive approximation of
the kind already explained.
moTrehefsuellypirnopheisrtie"sSeocfonhdis   Principal                                Function are treated of
                                           Essay on                                  General Method in Dy-          .

namics*"; in which he has introduced several forms of a cer
                                           connected with the Principal Func
tain   Function of Elements,               and adapted to questions of per
tion,
        and with each other,
turbation and has shown that for the perturbations of a
ternary or multiple system with any laws of attraction or re
pulsion, and with one predominant mass, the differential equa

tions of the varying elements of all the smaller masses may be
expressed together, and as simply as in the usual way, by the
coefficients of one disturbing function, (namely, the disturbing
part of the whole expression H,) and may be integrated rigor
ously by corollary of his general method.
        a

      · This Essay will be found in the Philosophical Transactions for 1835.
          TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                519

On Conjugate Functions, or Algebraic Couples, as tending to
illustrate generally the Doctrine  Mofr.ImGraagviensarryespQeucatnintgitiethse,

and as confirming the Results of
pEtroxeinss,steioMnnc.eRo.If.oAaf.n,TIwmAosatrginoidnneoapmreynedreLRnotgoayIrnaitthlefmgoe.rrsIreiBnlaynthdWe. c.oRm.plHetaemeixl

Admitting, at first, the usual things about imaginaries, let

          u + v v' -- 1 = 1(*+ yV-- l)i                       (a.)
in which x, y are one pair of real quantities, and u, v are an
other pair, depending on the former, and therefore capable of
being thus denoted, uIl9, vXlSl. It is easy to prove that these
two functions, uXJ/, vXJ,, must satisfy the two following equations
between their partial differential coefficients of the first order :

          du dv du _ dv                                       * ''

          dx d y' dy~ dx

Professor Hamilton calls these the Equations of Conjugation,
between the functions u, v, because they are the necessary and
sufficient conditions in order that the imaginary expression
u + v 4/-- 1 should be a function of x + y '/-- 1. And he
thinks that without any introduction of imaginary symbols, the
two real relations (b.), between two real functions, might have
been suggested by analogies of algebra, as constituting be
tween those two functions a connexion useful to study, and as
leading to the same results which are usually obtained by ima
ginaries. Dismissing, therefore, for the present, the concep
tion and  alafnegwuapgroepeorftieims aogfinsaurciehs,CoMnrju. gHaatemiFltuonnctipornosp,osoersAtlo
consider

gebraic Couples ; defining two functions to be conjugate when
they satisfy the two equations of conjugation, and calling, un
der the same circumstances,  the pair or couple (w, v) a function

of the pair (x, y).
An easy extension of this view leads to the consideration of
relations between several pairs, and generally to reasonings
and operations upon pairs analogous to reasonings and opera
tions on single quantities. For all such reasonings it is neces
sary to establish definitions : the following definitions of sum
and product of pairs appear to Mr. Hamilton natural :

          (*, V) + («i*)" ix + a, y + b),                     (c.)

          (x, y) x (a, b) = (x a -- y b, x b + y a), . . . (d.)

and conduct to meanings of all integer powers and other ra
ESQ              FOURTH REPORT -- 1834.

tional functions of pairs, enabling us to generalize any ordinary
algebraic equation from single quantities to pairs, and so to in
terpret the research of all its roots, without introducing imagi-
naries.
   Without stopping to justify these definitions of sum and pro
duct, which will probably be admitted without difficulty, Mr.
Hamilton inquires what analogous meaning should be attached
to an exponential pair, or to the notation (a, b'f**; or, finally,
what forms ought to be assigned to the conjugate functions

***.», v**t >n the exponential equation                                                                        (e.)

         (a, ty* = («,,, v,,)

   In the theory of quantities, the most fundamental properties
of the exponential function a" = $ (jt) are these :

          (*)(*)-(* + $), and$(l) = a; . . . (f.)

Mr. Hamilton thinks it right, therefore, in the theory of pairs,
to establish by definition the analogous properties,

         (a, b1*ri (a, 6)* "3 = (fl, &)(' + &, + 0, . . . (g.)
-and
          (a, bf& (a, b)                                                                                       (h).

Combining these properties       with the   equation (e.) and with the
definition (d.) of product, and   defining  an equation between pairs
to involve two equations between quantities, Mr. Hamilton ob
tains the following pair of ordinary functional equations, or
equations in differences, to be combined with the two equations
-of conjugation :
         u*,y H .  lyv*,y % · = "» +        + ,, 1

                                                                                                               GO

-o. -*and also the following pair of conditions,                                                               (k.)
            "l,o "i,o
Solving the pair of equations (i.), he finds

         «,,y =/(«' V + P *) 1 cos {ay + 0 *),1

         =/f.,y                                                                                                00
)3                 +             1 sin

   «'

            /3'

                                 («'

                          y

                            P
                                  *)

                                                                   («

                                                  y

                                                                                                           /9

                                                 J
                                            + w),

a being any four constants, independent of x and y, and
the function/ being such that
TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                                                               521

and having established the following, among many other gene

ral properties of conjugate functions, that if two such functions

be put under the forms

^=/(fx,y).COS«X)yl                                                                          (n.)
                                  \

f still retaining its late meaning, the functions pxy 0xy are also
conjugate, he concludes that the 4 constants of (1.) are con
J _nected by these two relations,
0 = + «,                                   = ft                                             (o.)

so that the general expressions for two conjugate exponential
-functions are :
          "',y =/(« *                      £ y) 1 cos (* y + /3 *),]
vx,y =/(**-/3y).sm (ay + /3x);Jr 1 1 · (p-)

and it only remains to introduce the constants of the base-pair
(a, b), by the conditions (k.). Those conditions give

«=/(<*) -cos                               r /3,  =/(*). sin           a 0,                 (q.)
                                                                             is
and therefore, finally,                        b                                            (r.)
                                                                                 6)
   "X

  being an arbitrary integer, and being quantity which may   /3,, /30
be assumed as > -- w, but not > », and may then be deter
mined by the equations
»
                                      /30
cos =                                      ,      sin = -.                           ..  .  (s.)

The form of the direct exponential pair (a, (''*), (or of the
direct conjugate exponential functions u, v,) now entirely de
termined but the process has introduced one arbitrary inte
ger

   Another arbitrary integer introduced by reversing the
process, and seeking the inverse exponential or logarithmic
pair,
i.                                         A)
             ;                                       v)

               y)                                        is
(*, = Log. («,                                                                              (t.)

               (a,

                                                                                                  ,'
5&Z FOURTH REPORT -- 1834.

Professor Hamilton finds for this inverse problem the formulae
-* J"^ns*"' irrp '
                                                                                                                    {}

in which a |3 are the constants deduced as before by (r.) from
the base-pair (a, b), and involving the integer i in the expres
sion of /3 ; while p and 9 are deduced from u and v, with a new
arbitrary integer k in 9, by expressions analogous to (r.), namely,

            p^ + ^dr

                                                                                                                    (v.)

             9 = 90 + 2A»,
in which 90 is supposed > -- *, but not > », and

v,-uJ2*+                                    vsin 90 =
/-r---cos 90 =                    j.                                                                                . . (w.)
                                                                   .-
                                 r9                    i<2 + c2

By the definition of quotient, which the definition (d.) of pro
dfoulclotwsiungggeesxtsp,retshseiofnormofualaelog(ua.r)itmhmayicbepabirrie: fly comprised in the

and, reciprocally, the direct exponential pair (m, p), as already
determined, may be concisely expressed by this other form of

-the same equation,
                            (x,
if                               (*,/3),                                                                            (y.)

                 (f,

                                    t>) 0)

                               . y)

                                                                                        .
                                                                                         9),
                                                                                                             1
we still suppose

        («, = (fp cos 9,/p sin

(«,6) = (/a.cos/3,/«.sin/3).J

Thus all the foregoing results respecting exponential and loga
rithmic pairs may be                         in the equations (y.) and (z.)
   When translated               comprised  language of imaginaries, they
                                 into the

agree with the results respecting imaginary exponential func
tions, direct and inverse, which were published by Mr. Graves
in the Philosophical Transactions for 1829, and was in me
                                                                                                                it

ditating on those results of Mr. Graves that Mr. Hamilton was
led, several years ago, to this theory of conjugate functions*, as

   * An Essay on this theory of Conjugate Functions was presented some years
ago by Professor Hamilton to the Royal Irish Academy, and will be published
in one of the next forthcoming volumes of its Transactions.
         TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                                    523

tending to illustrate and confirm them. For example, Mr.
Graves had found, for the logarithm of unity to the Napierian

2k*S-- fbase, the expression

         Log . 1 = 1 + 2ivj/--
which is more general than the usual expression. This result
of Mr. Graves appeared erroneous to the author of the ex
cellent Report on Algebra, which was lately printed for the
Association ; but it is confirmed by Mr. Hamilton's theory,
which conducts to it under the form of a relation between real

pairs,  namely,       SUM,

          !«.(!.«,.
         (r,o) [1,4 tit)

and the connexion     of this   result with that Report was    th*outhgahnt
to justify a greater             in the present communication
                       fulness

would have been proper otherwise on a question so abstract

and mathematical.

On the   Theory of Exponential Functions. By     John          Thomas
         Graves, of the Inner Temple, Esquire,   A.M.

In October, 1826, the author of the Memoir, of which the
following pages contain an abstract, was engaged in researches,
and obtained results, which were communicated to the Royal
Society of London in the                                              in
Philosophical Transactions      year 1828, and   tpheubtliitslheed"  An   the
                                for 1829, under
                                                                          At
tempt to Rectify the Inaccuracy of some Logarithmic For

mulae."
Certain theorems of Newton, Euler, and Moivre were known

to establish a remarkable connexion between exponential and
trigonometrical functions ; and the corrections made by M. Pois-
son and M. Poinsot in formulae of the latter class, induced the
author to apply similar corrections to those of the former, more
generally than appeared to have been previously accomplished.
Accordingly, his original paper exhibited formulae involving
arbitrary integers, by means of which he considered that a
solution was afforded for various difficulties that had formerly

   * Since this communication was prepared, Professor Hamilton has learned
that Professor Ohm of Berlin has been conducted by a different method to re
sults respecting Imaginary Logarithms, which agree with those of Mr. Graves :
as do also the results obtained in other ways, by Mons. Vincent and by Mr.
Warren. The partial differential equations (b.) have been noticed and em
ployed, for a different purpose, by Mr. Murphy of Cambridge.
524 FOURTH REPORT 1834.

perplexed mathematicians. In particular, he professed to elu
cidate the subject of the logarithms of negative and imaginary
quantities, which, at different periods, had occasioned contro
versies between Leibnitz and Jean Bernoulli, Euler and D'Alem-

bert.
   The researches of others have since confirmed the views of

the author, whose claim to independent discovery and priority
of printed publication is undisputed. In a paper of subse
quent date, published in the same volume of the Phil. Trans.,
the Rev. John Warren of Cambridge, by original investiga
tion, arrived at some of Mr. Graves's results. In June, 1832,
M. Vincent published at Lille, results identical in effect with the
author's principal formulae. M.Vincent claims to have antici
pated Mr. Graves in their discovery, and appeals, in corrobora
tion of this statement, to unpublished documentary evidence in
the archives of the Soci^te Philomatique, containing the Rapport
of MM. Ampere and Bourdon on a Memoire read August 18,
1827, as appears by the proces-verbal of that day. This Me
moire is said by M. Vincent to have been substantially the
same as that of June, 1832, and to have been communicated to
M. Gergonne as early                                      hisFiinnaglelyn,iouPsro"feTshsoerorHy aof
milton, of Dublin, has  as April,                 1825.
                        deduced                   from

Conjugate Functions or Algebraic Couples" a complete confir
        Poefatchoecka,uitnhohris's"sRysetveimew.
mation                                            of the  recent  progress  of Analy

   Mr.
sis," (page 267 of the Transactions of the Association for 1833,)
noticed the researches of Mr. Graves, but did not acquiesce in
his conclusions, which he conceived to be difficult to reconcile

with received opinions, and to be founded on the untenable

assumption of a periodic logarithmic base. It was for the pur
pose of removing the impression which the high authority of
Mr. Peacock is calculated to produce that the Author presented
to the Association a second paper on the subject, in order to
invite the attention of analysts to a condensed statement of his
reasoning and results, exhibited in a more systematic and po
pular shape than in his former essay.
   He is of opinion that the embarrassments and absurdities
which still encumber the doctrine of exponential functions have
chiefly arisen from calculating without fixed original principles ;
from occasionally regarding disintegrated properties, of partial
and collateral application to such functions, as the foundations
of essential and unlimited theorems ; from incautiously em

ploying developments in unterminated series, without reference
to their complements and the limits of their accuracy ; and,
above all, from applying algebraic rules, that are appropriate
                TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                  525

only to individualized values, to formulae more or less indefi
nite, containing those values among others. This is in fact the
paralogism of applying to an equivocal term used in one sense,
a predication proved only with respect to a different sense. He
adopts the position of M. Crelle, (Journal filr die reine und

angewandte Mathematik, torn. vii. cah. 3 and 4,) that no equa
tion is admissible, of which one          "midayenntioctalbetrapnrsofvoerdmatotiobne",
by previous consistent postulates,  side
                                      an
of the other. He would not banish diverging series from ana
lysis, but he agrees with M. Poisson and M. Cauchy in holding
that the remainder or complement of a series, even after an in
finite number of terms, ought always to be taken into considera
tion, since postponement, however long continued, cannot, of
itself, destroy. He goes so far as to maintain that, even in con
verging series, this remainder, though an infinitely small quan
tity, may, in certain cases, produce sensible effects. Thus, in
his opinion, we are not always at liberty to assume that the sum
of the series obtained by differentiating an infinite number of
terms of a converging development will approximate indefi
                edxiaffmerpelen)tiathl ecodeiffffiecrieennttiaol fctoheefficfuienncttioonf,thbeecianufisneite(lays
nitely to  the
he shows   by

small remainder may be of finite magnitude. He assumes the re
ceived symbolic rules of algebraic addition, subtraction, multipli
cation, and division, (which are in accordance with certain lead
ing and elect truths of numerical science,) and he proceeds in
like manner to define exponential quantities and logarithms by
means of properties which he supposes that mathematicians
would generally acknowledge to be characteristic and funda
mental. He admits also the theorems of the integral and the
differential calculus as derived from the consideration of limits.

From these definitions and postulates, he contends that his
conclusions not only legitimately follow, but are consistent with
received notions, as far as the latter are consistent with them

selves and with each other.
He explains a* (where a and x may be any quantities, real
or imaginary,) by means of the following functional definition,
viz. "a* comprises in succession every function (4>#) of x, which,
independently of x and xy, fulfils the following conditions :
                                          x )\
                <}>

                           $
                              (x
                                    +

                         J
                $x x =                                         ,,

                                                                      v

                <M-«"                                          (

                                                                 °

From this definition, (which Mr. Hamilton recommended him
to make, in explicit terms, the basis of his former Essay,) he
proceeds to evolve all the properties of a*.
                                                It  embodies the

well-known characteristic which led to the extension of expo
526 FOURTH REPORT -- 1834.

nential notation from integral to fractional, to incommensurable,
to negative, and to imaginary quantities. He contends that
there are                                                                           with the theory more fun
damental          no propositions                              c"oninnecatneyd     exponential system, the ex
                  than that, first,
ponent of the product of similar exponential functions of any
                                                        sum of the exponents                         of the factors" ;
quantities        isseceoqnudally, to"thaen             exponential function                         of 1 is equal to
and that,

Ifthe base."

      a* = y, the search of either symbol, (y the power, a the
base, x the logarithm,) as a function of the other two, fur
nishes three principal problems.

   First, To find y in terms of a and x.

                  fThe solution is a*=f(xf-1a)                                                                               (2.)

In this formula the notation 0 signifies cos 0 + */-- 1 sin 0,
cos 0 and sin 0 being functions of any real or imaginary quan
tity 0, which, independently of 0 and fulfil the following con
ditions                                                                                 0',
                  :                                                                          (0 (0
                                  00                    -- sin sin                 = cos
                                                 0' 0"                             = sin        0') 0')J
                  cos cos                               + cos sin00         0' 0"                      [ "1+                 · · (3.)
                   sin cos                              + (sin0)s =                                                       ·+

                       (cos0)2                                              1

Let a =           r             V' -- Is, and being real, then the notation
                                                        r                   s
                      +
~ a signifies
f                              y
               1

                                               --       i                             V

                             ,-^sCos                                    t*         +--
                  2*'*H                                        --f-z                                 ,-aI

                                                                                          1                                  . (4.\

                                                                                           /

In this formula denotes or any integer positive or nega-
                                i                              ,1

               g                  1                     or --      0,according as         *          not less or less
                                                                                              s9 is
tive v.-- denotes
;

          s*

than 0. When                 s                          positive or          negative, */            denotes the po
sitive square root              is                                                                 considerable use
                                                        s\ The              author makes
                                  of

of the class of expressions of which ~7=i an example. They                                is

are extremely convenient in general formulae, particularly on
account of their property of obviating the necessity of separate

cases. cos~+ represents the arc, when radius =                                                                               in the
                         0

                                                            0
                                                                               it)

                                                                                                       1,

                                                                                           i.
first positive semicircle (including and                                                      whose cosine =
In the statement of propositions having limits, he suggests the
peculiar importance in these investigations of expressing clearly
whether the limits, or either of them, are to be taken inclu
sively or exclusively. H denotes the ordinary real Neperian
logarithm of             0.
                TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                       527

The value oif~la, corresponding to a particular i in (4.),
fjhe denotes by f~ ' a. There is a discontinuity in             ' a or

f~ ' (r + */ -- 1 s), as above denned.         When r is negative,

y*"1 (r + 4/ -- 1 *) is suddenly diminished by (quam proxime)
2 7T on the completion of the passage of * through 0 from po
sitive to negative. For the purposes to which the author ap

plies f~ a, it is not necessary that for all nascent and trans

itive, as well as finite and quantitative states and values of
the r and * and the r and *% belonging respectively to a and
a, it should be predicable absolutely that f~ a, as above de

fined, is the same individual function of a and i, thatj"^ a is
fjof a and the same i. It is sufficient for him, that, in all ima
ginable cases,      a, when i is supposed to be arbitrary, com

prises all the roots of the equationyfl = a, and, when i is sup
posed to be individualized, denotes a unique value. These lat
ter objects are attained by his notation, as above explained,

which  arbitrarily  defines  --  =    to mean  1, whenever s =  0.

                             v    s2

That value of a1 which is expressed byf(xj^ a), he de

notes by the symbol a* , and terms the Ith value of a* : a* is

an individual solution of $x in equation (1.) ; a* and a* are
similar individual exponential functions of x and x', in a sy
stem where a] is equal to a, and independent of i. The theo

rddeeemffiisnniittciiooonnntssa, iansneuddbpsinerirnvtchieiepnletasuothnaoslysru'smtopeadnpo;etarantdidoepnie,fndwdieffrueepreoennmt tpshuleobysoeerqdigu, ei--nnatilf

a value of a" different from his o. were arbitrarily assumed as

the primitive, the same theorems would still exist, though they
might require to be differently expressed. He gives sym
metrical converging developments and easily calculable formulae

for the real and imaginary parts of (r + */ -- 1 s)                 '

x and x" being real as well as r and *.
   Second. The second problem is to find a such that a* = y,
x and y being given quantities, real or imaginary.
The general solution is

                    a=f(^riy)=y~*,                                  (5.)

for y will certainly be found among the values of a", when a
528 FOURTH REPORT-- 1834.

is equal to any quantity furnished by formula (5.), and con

versely, if any value of a* = y, a cannot but be equal to

some one of those quantities.
   If, however, the problem be to find a, such that the i01 value

of a* may = y, i being given as well as x and y, it may be
impossible to solve the problem by any value of a represent

able by admitted algebraic symbols, or reducible to the form

r + v -- 1 s. The general result of the author's investigations

on this branch of the subject is, that being given the equation

at *~ ' = p + */ -- 1 q, we shall have, when r is not = 0,

at least n algebraically representable solutions, and may have
» + 1 solutions, if r* + *a be greater than n */ r* ; and that we
can have at most but one such solution, and may have not even
one, when r2 + s? is not greater than \/ r2. When \/ r* is
equal to or greater  than 1, one representable       "a   at least may
always be found to   satisfy the equation. The
                                                         chance of re-
presentability" of a, when a, v-1* js given, when i is for
the first time taken at random, and r is not = 0, may be de-

noted by ,~ , certainty being denoted by 1 . Let r be = 0,

then   tihebeeiqnugatgiiovnenb,ecaosmwesellaa^s  ~   ' =p + */ -- 1 q. This equa
tion,                                            s,  p, and q, will have an infi

nite number of roots for a, if -- / --==== be greater than

(2 i -- 1 ) », and not greater than (2 i + 1 ) v ; otherwise, it will

have not one representable root.
   Third, The third problem is to represent all the logarithms
of a given quantity in a given base.
     Let a" = y, then every quantity which, being substituted for
x,   allows any  value of a*, as explained by
is,  according   to the author's definition,         a(1".)lo, gtoabreitheqmual"                                       to y,
                                                                                                                        of y
in the base a.

     The solution of this third problem is

                 X-f-la                                                                                                <6-'

     Any particular logarithm (x) will be of the form f~e ' ? , i and i
i,                                                                                                                  a

                        *',

                                                         J'i
                                                                                                                 '
being arbitrary independent integers.
       in the denominator of the preceding formula, names, ac
cording to the   author's nomenclature,              "threan"kor"dinert"hatoof rtdheer.lo
garithm, and      in the numerator, its
               TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.            529

  If # be a logarithm of y of any rank in the 4th order in the

base a, we shall have a* = y.
   When individualization is required, the author proposes to

denote the logarithm of y in the base a, of the i'th rank in the
i'h order by the symbol a-log* y, since the ordinary symbol
(log y) yields no information as to the base, the order, or the

rank. Thus, e being theNeperian base, e-log^ 1 = 2i»-- «/_Li "

Having solved these general problems, the author proceeds
to affix limits to some commonly received equations,    stoubejexcptl,a--in
some of the difficulties and paradoxes incident to the
to account for known facts, and to deduce novel facts relative to

the equation o* = y, --to apply his theory to other useful for
mulae connected with exponential functions, and to show how
far it accords with ordinary notions in a variety of particular
cases ; but the limits of an abstract preclude an enumeration of
       The following, however, may be noticed :

        vV + **+ 1 ·(r» + s2 + -ir*>
jj - \fhis results.
   Let
     P=

then we shall have

Vcosf. + (r +  -- 1 *)

=*-±{-w^^<(^-7i^)}--<!->

_With reference to this formula, it is observable that
                                                                     P

+ --vt-1 -- jar is the reciprocal of p -- v 1-'--- p , and that

when s = 0, p is equal to 1 , */ r2, or either, according as · r*

exceeds, is less than, or is equal to, 1.
   By showing that the commonly received equation (a*)*' = a**,

requires to be thus modified (a*)*" = 1*' a**', and by determin
ing the corresponding individual values of the modified equa
tion, he points out the defect of the reasoning of M. Clausen,
of Altona, (noticed by Mr. Peacock, page 347 of his Report
for 1833,) which seems to prove that a value of e~ n is
equal to 1. He takes occasion to enforce the important distinc
tion between the algebra of formulae that are left more or less
indefinite and of individualized values. He remarks, for in-

1834.                   2m
530 FOURTH REPORT 1834.

stance, that though f~ ' a +f~l a =f~ ' (a cf), yet, as f~ ' a
+ f~ ' a, in its indefinite form, admits the addition of any one
value to any other             +v(aaf3~lu) e=' a2o,flcift~on+'said2, efi~rtehd*aasa,stawanindceitnahdsaemftin/a"intye'  values as
8/" /"' a : that            '
                                                                                                                        I +/" ' I ,
or generally f~ ' 1
f-1is precisely equivalent toy"- ' 1 or                                                                                  formula,

                                                            a respectively.

    a* = 1* a* or generally a* = \" a' , i. e. all the values of o*

are given by multiplying any single value in succession by all
the values of              Now          1* has an infinite   number of
unless x be a    1"*.  rational         fraction" (positive  or negative,                                               values,
                                                                                                                          inclu
ding integers,) in which case the number of values is equal to
Ifthe denominator of the fraction in its lowest terms.
       a" have among its values two quantities differing only in
sign, a: is a rational fraction, with, in its lowest terms, an even
denominator. Let a be positive and x a rational fraction,

which  in   its  lowest terms              =    --  ,  the  number  of          real                                    values     of

                                                n

a"  will be one   or              two,  according as        n is odd or even.                                            Let
a.  = y, then x,                  a be  negative and        y positive, must be                                         a ra
                  if

tional fraction, with, in its lowest terms, an even numerator

and odd denominator ; if a be positive and y negative, an odd
numerator and even denominator ; if a and y be both nega
tive, an odd numerator and odd denominator. When x is of
the form r + */ -- \s, a real, and r irrational, a" can have
only one real value. When a is real, r rational, and s not
= 0, a * -- , if it have one real value, has an infinite num
ber. When x is of the form \/ --Is and a real, whenever
one value of a* is real, all the other values, of which there are
an infinite number, are also real.
    A quantity                    V--
            a                                 may have no real logarithm, and
                       (j>                                                + V--
can   have  "nmo omdourlei+       than one in a given       base                                                        1        un
less  the                      "  of the quantity (=        \/'
                        (i2 is                                                                                              *),
                                                                 p*                                                            1,
                                         it) 1                      + (rq*, adopting the
                                         + q)
phraseology of M. Cauchy,) and of the base are both = in
which case the number of real logarithms infinite. When
                                                                  it is
                                                                       is       r=                                      --
one real logarithm exists, and one only,                                                                                :
                                                                                                                         + "-

                                                                                                                                   "-
                                                                                (t--vr                                                 .

When an exponent real and rational, and in such case only,
    will reappear at intervals with different ranks in different
it

orders, as logarithm of the same quantity in given base.
                                                       1

                                                               (i2

                                                                             a
    In conclusion, the author states, that, as all the values of 1*
were before known (at least when x was real) to be comprised
in the formula cos                      x       V -- sin          x ir), the principal
         TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                                              531

novelty of his theory consists, 1st, in always determining (and
that, in a form capable of approximate numerical computation)
some single value of a' (ex. gr. a*), which appeared not to
have been accomplished, for all real and imaginary values of
a and x ; and, 2ndly, in showing that the complete formula for
the logarithms of a given quantity in a given base involves two
arbitrary independent integers, or that every quantity has an
infinite number of orders of logarithms in a given base, and an
infinite number of logarithms in each order. He suggests the
application of his results to the theory of numbers, of equations,
and of factorial functions.

   P.S. -- Mr. Graves has learned, since his paper was presented5>les
to the Association, that Professor Ohm, in a volume, published
in 1829, of his highly valuable system of Algebra, gives some
formulae for exponential functions which agree with the princi-

      promulgated, probably about the same time, in the First
 Part of the Phil. Trans, for 1829, but are confined to cases
where the given quantities are real. This distinguished Ger
man analyst, however, was aware that expressions of a similar
kind might be obtained, which, like those of the preceding
Abstract, would include powers, where the root and the expo
nent, and logarithms, where the number and the base, were
imaginary.

                                     PHYSICS.

Notice   the Reduction of an anomalous Fact in Hydrody
        of
namics,  oafndFlooaf tainngewBoLdaiews.ofBtyheJoRhesnistSa.nRceusseFlll,uiMds.Ato.
                                 is                of                               the
Motion
                                                                  a
The author has been induced to contribute this paper to
the Transactions of the Association, in consequence of state
ment made last year by Mr. Challis in his excellent Report on
Hydrodynamics, the first part of which contained in the last
                                               is

volume of the Proceedings. The paragraph containing the
statement referred                   la"stAosfinthgeulaRrefpaocrtt,,"  and      to be
found in page 150,  to the                                             &c.  is
                    beginning                                               The au
thor also refers to another passage in the Report of Mr. Chal
lis, consisting of the two first sentences of the paragraph im
mediately before the former quotation (p. 149).
   From these statements, and many others that could readily
be quoted, appears that the theory of the resistance op
         it

                              ;

                                          2
                                                  2

                                                              is
                                                                                                           a
posed by fluids to the motion of floating bodies remains in
very imperfect state that the resistance generally stated to

                                     M
532 FOURTH REPORT 1834.

increase with the square of the velocity ; that this law is sub
ject to a remarkable exception at some point where the re
sistance suddenly ceases to increase in the former ratio, and

appears to follow a new and unknown law. To this subject
the author has been recently induced to pay considerable at
tention, and he has enjoyed some facilities of observing these
phaenomena on a large scale, as well as of making experiments
on a more limited one, which have induced him to take a view
of the subject considerably different from any with which he
has had the good fortune to meet.

  In regard to the point of velocity at which the phenomenon
occurs, he states that it is in the transition from 8 to 9 miles

an hour ; and that after passing that point, the force required
to propel the boat at the higher velocity is less than at the

lower. It is also consonant with his observations and with exact
measurement, that the vessel at this point rises out of the
water, so that a vessel drawing 12 inches of water when at
rest, rises 2 inches out of the water when brought up to a ve
locity of 9 miles.
   Such is the fact; and it is equally a fact, as Mr. Challis
remarks, that theory never predicted anything of the kind.
It appears to the author that the reason why theory has
hitherto been so ineffectually applied to this subject is that
the theory of immersed bodies has been confounded with the
theory of floating bodies. The immersed and the floating
body are in circumstances totally different. He has therefore
considered them apart from each other, and has arrived at the
following conclusions, which are entirely different from the
principles hitherto received, and which perfectly coincide with
the facts noticed, and readily account for them.
The following are the results of the investigation.
1. That in all cases and at all velocities the displacement of
                                          by communicating ho
water by a floating   body is diminished
rizontal rectilineal  motion to it: that  this effect is not con
fined to velocities of 8 and 9 miles an hour, but extends from
the bottom of the scale of velocity to the top of it.
   2. That this emersion is independent of the form of the
body, and will take place equally with the worst and best form
of vessel, the only difference being that the other elements of
resistance will render more force necessary to communicate
the required velocity in the former than in the latter case.
   3. That for the velocity of one mile an hour, the section of
immersion when compared with that section when at rest, con
sidered as unity, will be diminished by '0228, or T'y nearly ; at
5 miles an hour, the emersion becomes -1 14 =     nearly and
                                                  -fa

                                                                        ;
TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                                      533

by a further increase to 9 miles, "205 = £ nearly. The im
mersion goes on diminishing at superior velocities in a con
ftinuous ratio, the                                   "456 = £ ; at
                      emersion becoming at 20 miles   whole section
30, -684 = ; at
                     40 miles an hour, only ^ of the
will be immersed ; and at 43'859 miles the elevating force will
exactly balance the gravitation of the vessel, and she will rise
entirely on the top of the water, descending to skim its sur
face and again rising above it at alternate intervals of equal
Ifduration.
   4. The law may be generally expressed thus :       any float
ing body be put in motion with a given velocity, the pressure
which it exerts downwards upon the fluid in virtue of gravity
is diminished by a quantity proportional to the weight of a
column of the fluid having the height due to the velocity;
and the ratio of the height of such a column to the velocity it
represents will express the ratio of the dynamical section of
immersion to the statical one, and the resistance will be that due

to this diminished section.

   5. Although the author has not verified this law experi
mentally to higher velocities than 20 miles an hour, yet from
its perfect coincidence with observation up to that point, he
has sufficient confidence in its correctness to predict that it

will hold rigorously in the higher velocities ; and if either this

theory or a more accurate one substituted for it should be
found to hold, we may yet save our science from some imputa
tion of sluggishness.

Let S = section of statical immersion.
      v = velocity of motion.
     g = measure of gravity.
      st = dynamical section of immersion.

    vs = displacement of statical section.

-- = height due to velocity.

When s = 0, v = 2 g = 64? feet per sec.

Table showing the relation of the dynamical section of immer
   sion due to a given velocity, the statical section being consi
   dered as unity.

liles per hour.      Feet per second.         Amount of Emersion.
                              1-46
         1
        2                              . ...  -0456250
       3                                      -0684375
534                           FOURTH REPORT 1834.

             Miles per Hour.       Feet per Second.  Amount of Emersion.

                     5                  7-30                -1140625
                     6                                     -1368750
                                       8-76'                -1596875
                       7
                     8                10-22                  1825000
                     9                11-68                 -2053125
                   10                 1314                  -2281250
                                      14-60                 -2509375
                     11               16-06                 -2737500
                    12                17-52                 -2965625
                   13                 18-98                 -3193750
                   14                 20-44                 -3421875
                                      21-91                 -4562500
                     15               29-20
                   20                 36-50                 -5703125
                   25                43-80                  -6843750
                   30                 51-10                 -7984375
                   35                 58-40                 -9125000
                   40                 59-86                 -9353125
                   41                 61-32                 -9581250
                   42                                       -9809375
                                      62-78               1-0000000
                  43                  64
                   43-859

On the Collision of imperfectly Elastic Bodies. By Eaton
                   Hodgkinson, Salford, Manchester.

The theory of imperfect elasticity of which Newton gave
the elements, from experiments alluded to in the Principia
(scholium to the laws of motion), has not always been received
with that cordiality which attaches to scientific deductions
clearly proved ; and among our neighbours the French, it is
seldom used. This circumstance, together with the remarks
in a work of great value by a member of the University of
Cambridge*, and a suggestion of its distinguished author,
made me desirous to repeat the experiments of Newton ; and
to seek for data necessary to supply, amongst other things,
the laws that regulate the elasticities after collision in bodies
of the same, and of different natures.

  IIn this research I have been, as on former occasions, gra

tuitously supplied with every requisite, so far as found it ne
tcheasTstoauryso,ebdtbaybinyMtShri.erFrIaseiarsbauacltisrNn, e,thweetonmngiondheeiemrI,sueoslfuf, aMilnlaynwachhdieocsphtteetrwd. owabsalnlse,aArly,
B, were suspended from points C, D, with equal radii, so as
jAusEt Hto,  bBeFiGn ,cowntearcet   when hanging vertically                 curves
                                   circular arcs round the      ; and the
                                                                centres C,  D, in

scribed on a wall contiguous. The arcs were divided accord

                              * Mr. Whcwell, in his Mechanics.
TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.             535

ing to their chords, each way, starting from the lowest point,
the point of junction of the balls when still; since the velo
cities acquired by bodies falling down those arcs are as their

chords. In the experiments with the larger balls, two persons
usually supported the balls at any points, G, H, of equal height,
as directed, and let them fall at the instant that a sharp blow
was given on the wall for a signal, the author and another
person observing the points E, F, to which the balls returned
after having impinged at the lowest point. The chords of the
arc, fallen through and returned, were, as mentioned above,
considered as the measures of the velocities of impact and re
coil. In some of the experiments one of the balls was at rest
at the lowest point, before impact. The resistance of the air,
in the lighter bodies especially, was generally allowed for.

   In the tabulated results of experiments accompanying this,

each number set down for the elasticity is the greatest from
about ten impacts ; and in the smaller balls, especially in the
greater arcs, it is often from as many as twenty, on account of
the difficulty of obtaining, with large arcs, direct and central
impacts.

Conclusions from the Experiments referring to the "Tabulated
                  Results" for proofs and illustrations.

Conclusion 1 . All rigid bodies are possessed of some de
gree of elasticity ; and among bodies of the same nature, the
hardest are generally the most elastic.
This conclusion obtains a good illustration from metals.
Thus, the soft metal lead has an elasticity of '20, as exhibited
by its mean ratio ; brass, which is harder than lead, has its

elasticity '36 ; bell-metal, which is harder than brass, has '59 ;
cast iron, still harder, has '66 ; and steel, the hardest metal of
all, has -79 for its elasticity. (Expts.
The same conclusions might be drawn       1fr3o, m10t,he12e, la1sttioc3itife3s1o.)f
536 FOURTH REPORT-- 1834.

other bodies increasing in hardness : thus, malleable clay, stone,
hard-baked clay, glass, give elasticities of about "17, -79, -89,
·94. (Expts. 18, 27, 29, 24.)

   Conclusion 2. There are no perfectly hard inelastic bodies,
as assumed by the earlier, and some modern, writers on me

Ifchanics.
        Conclusion 1. be true, this will follow as a consequence,
the proofs of both being of the same nature.

   Conclusion 3. The elasticity, as measured by the velocity
of recoil divided by the velocity of impact, is a ratio which
(though decreasing as the velocity increases,) is nearly constant,
when the same rigid bodies are struck together with consider
ably different velocities.

   The proofs of this are very numerous ; they may be taken
(with some anomalies,) from almost every experiment. In ex-

                 1 and 2, cast-iron balls striking together with vel
1o>ceirtiimesentsas 4, 6, 8, 10, 12, gave, in the one case, elasticities
"69, -66, '66, '61, '59; and in the other case "70, *69, -66, "64,
·62. In experiments 10 and 11, balls of soft brass struck to
gether with velocities varying from 4 to 20, gave for their elas
ticities "38, -37, "36, "30, "33; and even lead, which permanently
changes its figure at every impact, preserves considerable ap
proximation to equality in its elasticities, as may be seen from
Experiments 13 and 14. The same may be said of other bo
dies besides metals, as will be evident by inspection of the
tables of results ; the irregularity and decrease of elasticity
being greater in those bodies that least recover their forms

after impact. It is probable, too, that the decrease of elasticity,
in some bodies, from the larger impacts, is somewhat less than
as indicated in the table, on account of the great difficulty then
of obtaining perfectly central impacts.

   Conclusion 4. The elasticity, as defined in Conclusion 3, is
the same whether the impinging bodies be great or small.

   This fact is proved by Experiments 1, 2, and 20, in which
the elasticities of cast iron are "64, '66, and '73; differing in
the first and second experiments only yy, though the weights of
the equal balls in experiment 1 are more than five times the
weight of those in experiment 2. In the 1st and 20th experi
ment, the difference of elasticity is but ^th, though the balls
vary in weight as 74 to 1.

   Conclusions. The elasticity is the same, whatever be the
relative weights of the impinging bodies.

   This will be shown by comparing the results of experiments
5 and 58, in which the same stone ball was struck against two
balls of cast iron, one 33 times as heavy as the other ; the elas
                 TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                                             537

ticity in the two cases being -71 and '76, or nearly equal. In
experiments 6 and 60, balls of brass, varying in weight as 30
to 1, were struck against the same stone ball, and their elas
ticities varied only from "62 to "68.
   Various other proofs, both of this  and  the  preceding                       " Con

clusion," may be obtained from the tabulated results ; and
therefore the elasticities given in the tables will apply, what
ever be the relative or absolute weights of the impinging
bodies.
Conclusion 6. In impacts between bodies differing very
much in hardness, the elasticity with which they separate is
nearly that of the softer body.
This may be shown by many examples : thus, lead, the elas
ticity of which is '20 (Exp. 13.), is much harder than cork,
whose elasticity is '65 (Exp. 25.) ; but the elasticity of lead
struck             cork  eilsas"t5ic7i,tiedsiffeorfingsteeoln, lyca^stfroirmon,  that of   cork
(Exp.   against  The                                                                        and
        44.).                                                                      stone,

glass, are -67, -73, -79, -94, (Expts. 30, 20, 27, 24) ; and these
bodies are very hard, compared with lead, whose elasticity is

120 ; but if they be successively struck against lead, the re
sulting elasticities will be -19, -17, -28, '25 (Expts. 50, 49, 56,
32); differing not widely from that of lead. There is fre
quently, however, a considerable loss of elasticity in impacts
between bodies differing much in hardness, arising from the
softer body being crushed with the blow, in the manner that a
soft body would be by a hammer.
Conclusion 7. In impacts between bodies whose hardness
differs in any degree, the resulting elasticity is made up of the
elasticities of both ; each body contributing a part of its own
elasticity in proportion to its relative softness or compressibility.

  From Conclusion 6 we see that if any body, as lead, be struck
successively by two other bodies, as cork and steel, one very
soft and the other very hard compared with itself, the lead in
the first case will contribute scarcely any of its elasticity, the
cork giving nearly the whole of its : and in the second case the
lead would contribute nearly all its elasticity, and the steel
                 if(Ethxeptlse.ad13h,ad25b, ee3n0,st4r3u,ck5a0g.a) insHt eanncoethweer
scarcely  any.                                                                              may
conclude  that                                                                             body
of equal softness or compressibility with itself, the lead would
have contributed half of its own elasticity, and the other body
half of its own, to form the resulting elasticity.
This reasoning seems to be borne out by experiment, as will
be seen further on. Admitting it therefore to be generally
correct, we see that in the two extreme cases of collisions, be
tween bodies of equal hardness and of very different hardness,
538 FOURTH REPORT-- 1834.

each body contributes a portion of its own proper elasticity in
proportion to its relative compressibility.   Hence in collisions
between bodies whose hardness differs in
                                             any other degree, it
seems natural to conclude that the same law is preserved.
   To exhibit this in a form capable of submitting it to the test

ofof experiment : Let a and b represent the relative hardness
two bodies, «' and V their respective elasticities, to find the
elasticity resulting from their collision.
   Since in bodies considered as springs the compression    of
each is inversely as the hardness, or resistance to compression,

calling -- = the compression of the first body, we have

       -- = the compression of the second.

Whence  --  +    -bj-  --  the  compression  from the two.

         a

            \_

               pa      =        , = the compression from the first

       ' -.

        ab

body in terms of the whole compression.

           J_    p as ----a j = th, e compression  ,         ,
                                                            the se
              b                                    from

        -j

                   tt b

cond, in terms of the whole.

But by the 7th Conclusion,

             b   x d = the elasticity contributed by the first

        a+ b

body;

        a + b X U = the elasticity from the second.

Whence their sum                -^-r = the required elasticity from

both.

   The modulus of elasticity seems to afford the best means of

Ijudging of the relative powers of bodies to resist incipient com

pression. have therefore selected that datum from Tredgold's
Essay on Cast Iron, in the few cases that answered my purpose,
                TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                          539

and supplied it in some others from my own experiments ;
reckoning the modulus in lbs., and for a base of an inch square.

        Cast iron                              18,400,000 lbs. Tredgold.

        White marble                           2,520,000

        Elm                                    1,340,000

        Lead, cast                             720,000

        Best double shear steel*, not hardened... 31,165,000
        Bell metal f, same as in our experiments 11,380,000
        Soft brass J, same as in our experiments 10,440,000
        Glass, from window-glass               8,580,000

        Ivory                                  1,630,000

        Cork                                         2,369

Suppose it were required to find the elasticity of glass struck
against brass.
The modulus of a glass being 8,580,000, and that of brass
10,440,000, their relative hardness is as 86 to 105 nearly ; and
the elasticity of glass is '94 and of brass '41 (Expts. 24, 22.) :
ahence in the formula, for the elasticity above, we have a = 86,
a' = -94, b        105, b, = -41,
        _. ab, + ba!
                 a+ b     86       x  -41 + 105 x    -94  _.7() '  fc  j '"'

                                           86 + 105

ticity   required (being   r'nth   less than that given by Exp.        34.).
   In   impacts between   other    bodies we have as follows :

jgjffiiNome, of Bodi«, with their EUaticitW*.  hJuSL.               Errors.

Glass (-94) against lead (-20)           -257       -25            -- ^jT
Glass (-94) against bell-metal (-67)...  -82
Ivory (-81) against cork (-65)           '64        -87                ^r
                                                    -60

   * A bar of best double shear steel, not hardened, -99 inch deep, -96 inch

broad, and 6 feet 8 inches long, weighing 224 lbs- was laid on props 6 feet
asunder, and 196 lbs. suspended from the middle bent it -63 inch without in
juring its elasticity: other weights, as 252, 308, 364, 420, bent it -81, 1-00,
T17, 1'35. The experiment was made with great care, and a long wedge of
wood was employed to measure the deflections.

   t A bar 2 feet between the supports, -51 inch deep and 1-03 inch broad, bent
-27 inch with 121$ lbs. without injuring its elasticity : 304 lbs. bent it -62, and

318 broke it.

   X A bar 2 feet between the supports, -52 inch deep, and 1-04 inch broad,

bent -15 inch by 66$ lbs. without injuring the elasticity: other weights, as
94$, 150* 171$, 219$, bent it -22, -48, -70, 2-87, showing its great softness and
flexibility. Its modulus calculated for double the weight necessary to destroy
its elasticity was only 5,270,000 lbs., half that given above.

    The modulus for glass was obtained from the mean between three experi
ments made by bending slips of window-glass,giving9,600,000lbs., 8,505, OOOlbs.,

 and 7,634,000 lbs.
    The modulus for ivory was obtained by bending two slips of ivory ; and for

 cork by compressing a rectangular piece 16 inches long and 2-05 inches sec
 tion ; the decrement with 1274 lbs. being -42 inch.
540  FOURTH REPORT 1834.

     S£.N«»*. or Bodicwltt their EJartlcltie..  Etaiucilie..  ErTM"-
                                                                  ji.
Ivory (-81) against lead (-20)           -39    -44           --
Ivory (-81) against brass (-41)          -76                  --
Ivory (-81) against bell-metal (-67)...  -79    -78
Brass (41) against bell-metal (-67)...   -53    -77           --  V*
Brass (-41) against cast iron (-73) ...  -52    -55
Brass (-41) against steel (-67)          -47    -50               --^^
Brass (-41) against limestone* ("79) .   '71    -47
Lead (-20) against limestone (-79) ...   -32    -73           \-- -fj-
                                         -37    -28
Lead (-20) against elm f (60)            -58    -41           --^
                                                -52
Brass (-41) against elm (-60)                                     $

   Other instances might be adduced, but the above may be
sufficient to show the consistency of the formula, and of the
7th Conclusion, from which it is deduced.

   I* have supposed the modulus of limestone to be 2,520,000 lbs., the same

which Mr. Tredgold found for white marble. The balls we used were some
what softer than it ; but Mr. Tredgold's results being obtained from the flexure

f Iat the time of fracture, must be too low, as he himself has observed.

          have assumed the modulus of elm, struck across the fibres, to be
1,000,000 lbs.; its value in the direction of the fibres being 1,340,000 lbs., as
before given.
       Tabulated      Results            of Experiments             on the Elasticities                                                        of Bodies      subjected    to various       degrees               of impulsive           force.

                                                   Weight of each Ball in lbs.               Approxi                                           Velocities of impact, as    Elasticities1 as measured        Mean Value
                                                              avoirdupois.                 mate Ratio                                          measured by chords of          by the ratios of the ve       of Elasticity.
                  Description of Balls.                                                    of weights                                          arcs   passed through   be     locities of recoil to those                               Remarks.
                                                                                                                                               fore  the blow.                of impact (unity repre
                                                                                             of Batls.                                                                        senting perfect elasticity.)

                                                                                               1. 1. 1 1. 1. 1- 1. 1. 1. 1. 1. 1. 1.           (Radius        11 feet.)
                                                                                          11 111 1 1 1 1 1 111                                  p1 1p 1 -1 -p1
       Two cast iron balls                                        11 lbs. each.                                                         to                    111, feet    111 11 11 11 -1                  1,-
                                                                                              ..                                        to     11 1,          111,         11 11 11 11 11                   111
         Ditto                                          1 1 1111 1lbs. 11 oz. each.                                                 .m11 tol.                                                                     .(Hi
                                                                                   11 11                                            1-1 tol.                                           111 11               111.
         Ditto                                     11 lbs. and         11lbs. 11 oz.                                                    to            111                              17 -11
                                                                    11                                                                 to 1.                                     11 11 11
       Cast iron ball, Leaden ball                 11 lbs. and      lbs. 11 oz.                                                         to           -1                                111 11               .11                     Experiment*.
                                                                                                                                                     -p                         .1 -11 -11                                  In this case and some
       Cast iron ball, Boulder-stone         1\balllbs. 11 oz. and lib. 1oz                                                                                                                                 .11
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              others, where one bo-
       Boulder-ston   ball1 Soft brass ball        lib. 11 oz. and       lbs. 11 oz.                                                                                                                        .1                dy much harder thanis is
                             14                                          lbs. .m oz                                                                                                                                           theother.the softer bo
       Boulder-stone      &ball, Leaden ball       1lib. oz. and                                                                                                                                            11                dy crushed1 and it-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              elasticity decreased.
       Boulder-stone  eball, Elm ball              lib. .moz.and11bs.              11 oz,                                           to 1.                                  11 -a       -"                   -.30

            (struck across the fibres)   \JJ (11"1                                                                                                   -1,1                  ., 11 -1
       Two balls of elm (struck across                                                                                                                        .m
                                                          lbs. 11 oz. each.                                                         to                  1                                                         17
            the fibres)                                                                                                                              11
11. Two balls of soft brass                               lbs. 11 oz. each.                                                         to                    1p 11            .11 -11 -1                       11' mean        The  ExpU.   11 to 18.
                                                                                                                                                                                                            11 .11                brass   balls were
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            much bruised by the
         parts copper1and        part tin)   / \J 7 1, 1                111                                                                                                                                       .69       impacts. The bell-me
                                                                    1                                                                                                                                       .11-1 mean      tal balls were bruised
11. Ditto             ditto                                       lbs. oz. each.                                                    to                  1,1                11 -11                           11/ .11         too, but in less de

.m. Two balls of bell-metal              (1                       lbs. 11 oz. each.                                                 to           p        .m, 11           111 -11 -1                             11        gree.            a
                                                                                                                                               1                                                                                        a
                  parts copper,  parts tin                                                                                                                                                                                       XjpU.l3.andl*.
       IS, Two balls of lead
                                                   lbs. oz. and lbs.                 oz .                                              to            11 1p 11              111 -11 -11 "11                                  In lead1        permanent
                                                                                                                                       to                                                                                     change of    figure usu
I1. 101  Ditto        ditto                        lbs. .m oz. and lbs. .moz                                                           to            1,11     1            111 -11 -11                                        ally takes  placeat eve

IS. Leaden ball, Elm ball                          lbs. oz. and lbs.                 oz                                             repeated.        1    1p   11          11 -11 -11                                       ry impact.
                                                                                                                                       tol.
11       Ditto        ditto                        Experiment       varied and                                                                         1      1            16 -11 -11                       11 The Erxepseurltims efnrtom11.clay

                                                                                                                                                     1,

       17 Elm ball, Soft brass ball                                                 111                                                                1      .m           11 -1       -10
            Two balls of clay, just malle-                                1                                                                          1
                  able with the hand                                 1

       ft. Clay ball, Soft brass ball                  11 1 1
                                                 1

                                             /"1
                                                   lbs. oz. and lbs. oz

                                                                  lbs. 11 oz. each.                                                 tol.       11 11, 1                    1.m -11 -1       -11             11              were very irregular   :
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            those set down arc the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            means from two ex
                                                          lbs. 11oz. each.                                                          tol.             1p            11      11 -11 '11 -11 -11               11 periments.

                                                                                                                                               1-
i               Description of Balls.                Weight of each Ball1 in lb*,                                                Approxi.         Velocities of impact1 as       Elalbosyctiictthiieteisesro1aftiroaesscooilmf tetohaesthuorvesede.   Mean Value     Remarks.
 21                                                              avoirdupois.                                                 mate ratio             measured by chords of          of impact (unity repre                                           of Elasticity.
                                                                                                                              of weight*             nrr- p.t-xti thruilgh t>e-     senting perfect elasticity).
                                                                                                                                                     fore the blow.
                                                                                                                               of Balls.

   Two balls of cast iron                                 1 1 1 11 1 1 1                                           1. 1.                          (Radius        1 feet.)        11 p1 p1 11
                                                                                                                                                                                      11 11 11
   Two balls of bell-metal                 , 11                         oz. drs. each.11 1                 11                 to                  .m1 11- 1 11                                                                                       11
                                                                        oz. drs. each.                                        to                                                                                                                     .10
                                  (same/ \/"1                                                                                                            11
   mixture as in Exp. 11
   Two balls of soft brass (same
   as in Exp. 11.)                                                      oz. drs. each.                             1. 1. 1. 1.   to                     1                        11 -11 -11                                                          11

                                                                                                           1 11               1 to                     11
                                                                                                                                                  11
                                                                                                                                 to
1  Two   ditto  (same mixture)                        lbs.  1oz. &1oz.                   .m drs.                                 to                      11111                   .11 -11 -=                                                          11
   Two   balls  of glass                             oz.                                                                                                   1-11                                                                                      11
                                                                                 1                1 11111                                                                                   11
                                                                          11                                                                                                     11 11
                                                                        drs. and oz. drs                                                                                                        1

11 Two balls of cork                                                    oz. drs. each.                                                                   11-1                                                            ;I                          17
                                                                                                                                                         each
         Ditto                                                                                                                                              1      way)          .11                                                                     is v
                                                                                                                                                          111
111 Two limestone balls                                                  oz. drs. each.                    111 1 1            to    1. 1.                     11                 .m1 p1                                                         11   11
                                                                        oz. .m drs. each.                                     tol.                                                                                                         a         .m1
.m. Two   ivory balls                                                                                                         to                     (1                          .m1 p1                                                              .m1
19. Two  balls of hard-baked                                                                                                                                                                      | "1 1
BO, Two  balls of best double                                                                                                 tol.                1                              .m9 -,
                                                                                                                                                                                                  1
                                          clay...    Ioz.l1$drs.&loz.                    11jdrs                                                           111
                                       shear                                                                                                             111(7
                                                 "1  11 oz. 11 drs. each.                                                                                1111                    11 11 1                                                             11

           steel1 (not hardened)                11111                                                                               1.                                           .m1 p1         p1                                                   11
tl. The same balls1 hardened                                                                                   to                                                                                                                                                           Experimental.
                                       / 1111111                                                           1p tol.                                                                                                                                         me»n      The h-;u. taken from
.m. Leaden ball1 Glass ball                             lbs. .m oz. and      1111111111  oz. drs,          .m1 to                                 11          1                  11 -11 -11                                                          111      11
                                                         oz. drs. and     &                                1p to                                                                                                                                     1.m/              the two first experi.
                                                         oz. drs. and                    oz. drs,          11 to                                           11                                                                                                          merits. The balls were
                                                          oz. drs. and                   oz. drs.          1-1 to
S1. Leaden ball1 Glass ball                             oz. drs. and                     oz. drs           1-9 tol.                  I. 1. 1. 1.           1                     ..m                                                                                       little cracked with
                                                        oz. drs. and                     oz. drs           11 tol.                                                                                                                                                     the hardening but
81. Soft brass ball1 Glass ball                         lbs. .m oz.                    oz. 11 drs          .m1 to                                          1                     .m1 p7                                                              11                that ha* not, think.
                                                     1oz. 1drs. and                    oz. .m drs          .m1 to                                                                                                                                                      affected an result, ex.
                                                        oz. drs. and                   oz. 11 drs,         1-1 tol.                                      11                      .m1 -,                                                                                cepl1perhaps1the last.
                                                        oz. drs. and                   oz. .m drs
81, Bell-metal  ball1 Glass ball                                                       oz. 11 drs                                                            1,.m                                                                                    .m1

:;<;.Cast iron ball1 Glass ball                                                                                                                             1,11                 11                                                                        11
                                                                                                                                                         11111                                                                                       .11 mean
'17. Leaden ball1 Ivory ball                                                                                                                                                     11 -1                                                               .1o} .«
                                                                                                                                                            111
is. Leaden ball, Ivory ball                                                                                                                              1111                    11 -11 -11                                                                11

19. Soft brass ball1 Ivory ball                                                                                                                        1                         11 p1 .m1

11. Bell-metal  ball1 Ivory    ball                        11                                                                                    1                               11 p1                                                               11
                                                     1
                                                                                                                                                          .m

                                                                                                                                     1. 1.

M. Cork ball1 Ivory ball                                                                                                                                                         .m1 '1         -,                                                   11
41  Cast iron ball, Cork ball                                     7 1 711111 1oz. drs. each.1 11 1                                  1.     tol.                   1,1  1S 11                  11         Krjils. '1 '3, ".
                                                                                                                                                                                                           worthy of remark.
.m, Shear steel ball (not harden-          J J )"1 /"I                                                                    1 1 1111     1-1 tol.                  .m.m                         11                          ,It
                                                 1                                      11                                                                     111,1                                                    isthat the elasticities of
    ed), Cork ball                                        oz. drs. and oz. drs                           1 1 1 11111 1 7                  tol.                1111     ·51 ·51                11
                                                                                                                                       17 to                                            .1 mean  /"1cast iron, steel, and
14, Leaden ball, Cork ball                                                    oz. drs. each,                                                                      1,1  11 -1            11 "1       lead, struck against
                                                                                                                                           tol.                   111                               cork, are all the same
15. Bell-metal     ball, Soft brass ball..                libs.               oz. and oz. .m drs,                                          tol.                   1,1                         11    quantity, and nearly
                                                                                                                                           tol.                        111 -71 -11            11    the same as that of
11. Bell-metal     ball1 Soft brass ball..                     oz.            oz. drs. each.                                              tol.                 1,1,1                          ·11   cork but rather below
                                                               oz.                                                                                            1,-1     17 -" -11
17. Cast iron ball, Soft brass ball...                11 9                       drs. each1 nearly.                                   1-1 tol.                                             "
                                                                                 drs. each1 nearly.                                                            1,111   .16 -11                      it.
                                                                              oz. drs. each.                                              tol.                 1,11
41. Cast iron ball, Bell-metal      ball...                                                                                                                    1,111   11 11
                                                                                                                                      1-1 tol.
11. Cast iron ball, Leaden ball                                                                                                       1-1 tol.                 1,1,1        11      -1
                                                                                                                                      1-1 tol.                         11
50, Shear steel (not hardened)1                           oz. drs. and oz. drs.         1 11111 1 1 1 1                               1-1 to                                    "
                                                                                                                                      11 to
    Leaden ball                                                                                                                                                                 , -11
                                                                                                                                      1-1tol.
". Shear steel (ditto), Soft brass                    11 oz. 11drs. and1 oz. drs.                                         1                                                                   11
                                                                                                                                      11 tol.                                           .p m<*n
    ball                                                                                                                                                                                .11.M1
                                                                                                                                       1p tol.
71. Soft brass ball. Limestone                   1                1                                                                                                    1·71 p1                11
                                           ball           oz. drs. and                                 oz. drs.                       .m1 tol.                                                11 1
                                                                                                                                                                                              111
73. Ditto             ditto                           loz. 11 drs. and oz. drs.                                                                                        11 11 11
                                                                                                                                                                                              11
11. Cast iron ball, Limestone       ball          1       oz. 4 liis. and oz. drs.                                                                          11         ·77 16 .m1
                                                 .                                                                                                       1, 11                                .10
                                                                                                                                                      11 1,
1. Bell-metal      ball, Limestone    ball            loz. 11 drs. and oz. drs.                                                                1. 1.                   1'J 19 -.m             11
                                                      1libs.
a. Leaden ball, Limestone           ball ...                                  oz. and oz. drs                                                                          110 11 -1              ·01

11. Boulder- stone  ball,           (very     11          lb. 1oz. and                                 oz. drs.                                                        '1.v, p1
                                                                                                        oz. drs,
    hard)1 Limestone       ball .../     J"I "I]" 1       1lb. oz. and                                                                                                 .17 p1

.m. Boulder-stone   ball, Cast iron ball

71. Boulder-stone   ball1 Bell-metal                  lib. .m oz.and                    oz. 11 drs,                                                                    1.71 p1
           ball

1. Boulder-stone    ball, Soft brass             1lib. oz.and                                          1oz. drs                                                        .11 11
            ball
544 FOURTH REPORT 1834.

Theoretical Explanations of some Facts                              relating     to the Com
  position of the Colours of the Spectrum.
  Challis.                                                            By the     Rev. James

  A ray of homogeneous light, in the undulatory hypothesis,

consists of the isochronous undulations of an elastic medium; and
the velocity at a given instant, of the undulating particles situ
ated on a straight line drawn in the direction in which the light

travels, is expressed by the function m sin f ----he), x being

the distance of any point on the line from a fixed point. The
condition of homogeneity is, that m and A be constant: the

Ifcolour depends on A.

      two rays be combined, for which m is the same and A dif
ferent, the compound ray, by the principle of the coexistence
of small vibrations, is expressed by

                            \ /t--x                             x      cA);

                           («                                 --j-
                           +  c\  +  msm.  I                        +

Z-J^ MX"orif
                           + and! =
2                                                                            X')'by

       ^
                      Tf)
          m cosf           + cA sin \^j- + c«)-

In the spectrum the greatest and least values of are to each other
                                                                       J; A
nearly in the ratio of to so that -^                                             at least equal
                           3                                                 is
                                   2,
                                            6
                                                           (
to ^-- and at least equal to A. Hence in the periodic func
,
     (

      I

                        V
tion cos    --             cA the periods recur much less frequently than

          --j

those of the other factor, sin       -- c3 in which                          L         an har
                           A
                                       (                                           is

                                    -j

                                                             h

                                                      ),
monic mean between and A'. It does not appear that the eye
can appreciate periods of slower recurrence than those corre
sponding to the rays of the spectrum. We may, therefore, con

clude that the periodicity of cos (----- c, would not be per
                                                              \-

                                                                    )

ceived, and that the eye would be sensible only of that of the
other factor. The compound ray will therefore be of an inter
mediate colour.
              TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                      545

  Newton asserts, in a letter to Oldenburg, that " if any two

colours be mixed, which in the series of those generated by the
prism are not too far distant from one another, they, by their
mutual allay, compound that colour which in the said series
                                            them*."
appeareth in  the mid-way  "bpetewrfeeecnt  sensations  of yellow and of
              states that
   Dr. Young
blue are produced respectively by mixtures of red and green,
and of green and violet light f."

   According to the theory here proposed, the compound colour
is independent of the origins of the component rays, for c and
d may be any arbitrary quantities ; and this agrees with ex

perience.

   It follows, too, from this theory that the red and violet can
not be produced by mixing two colours of the spectrum, but
every other prismatic colour may. Dr. Young takes red, green,
and violet as fundamental colours in his theory of composition.
In Mayer's theory, red, yellow, and blue are the fundamental
colours, and violet is supposed to be a compound only because
it produces, without being mixed with any other colour, a sen
sible impression of redness. See Herschel's Treatise on Light,
Art. 515.
   The difference between two rays expressed respectively by

--the functions m sin ( -=-- + c \ and 2 m cos ( --. V cA

sin ( -=- + c), is exhibited in figures 1 and 2. Since it is

known by experience that the eye is not sensible to a momen
tary interruption of a ray (as exhibited in fig. 3.), there seems
to be no reason to expect that it would perceive any difference
between the rays of figures 1 and 2. Nothing in light corre
sponds to discords in sound.

FigA.

Fig.5. --,

   Sir John Herschel is of opinion that the fact of the complete
imitation of the prismatic green by a mixture of adjacent colours

       ·  Horsley's Edition of Newton's Works, vol. iv. p. 303.
          Lectures on Natural Philosophy, vol. i. p. 439.
       t                   2n

1834.
546 FOURTH REPORT-- 1834.

favours the idea of the possibility of an analysis of white light
distinct from that afforded                                                       on Light,
Art. 516.) The tendency          by      the   prism. (Treatise
                                        the   preceding theory                   is to show,
                                 of
that the possibility of decomposing one ray is no ground for
thinking that another exactly the same in appearance is also

Ifdecomposable.

       m were not the same in the two component rays, the com
pound ray would not be so like a homogeneous ray, since the
intervals between the points of no velocity would not all be
equal. In mixing two simple rays there must consequently be
an adjustment of the quantity of light in each to bring out the
purest compound.
                                 Colours  of the Spectrum.                -- Let  RQBV
   Composition of all the
(fig. 4.) be the curve line        (as determined by                      the    experiments
of Fraunhofer,) whose            ordinates represent                      the
                                                                                 intensity of
light from R, the red end, to V, the violet end of the spectrum.

Fi9. 4.

Draw AB, dividing the area into two equal parts, R AB, V AB.
VKDivide each of the              into  the same number of small equal
                        pRaHrts  and         be taken in the proportion of
portions (m). Let
the values  of X        KforbethseucehxttrheamteanreodrdainndatevioPleMt  rays,   and let the
curve line  HP                                                            is as
                                                                                 the value of
mX ocnoircremspeoanndibnegtwteoentheRinHtenasnidtyVQKM. .   Also let D E be an har

                                                           Then, compounding the
                        two and two, taking one in         each of the areas
RsmAalBl ,poVrtAionBs,  beginning with the extreme
                                                           portions at R and
V, and proceeding with the others in succession to B, there will
be as many compound rays as there are portions, and each will
be expressed by such a function as
            \ -- \--2n m cos ·/V--x (- c, 1 si.n (I·*-r=x h ci),

in which I is greater in   parnodpoLrtioisn     as the combined                  portions
                                              always intermediate                   to the
are nearer each other,
values of X corresponding to A C and D E. The sum of all
these functions is the function expressing the result of com
pounding the whole spectrum. Nothing can be anticipated
respecting the nature of the final expression, except that it in-
                   TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                                                                                     547

dicates that the points of no velocity are at irregular intervals
from each other, as exhibited in fig. 5. This would appear by
combining two or three of the functions by mechanical construc
tion. It seems probable, then, that this condition is necessary
to produce white light, and that the whiteness is more perfect
in proportion as the intervals are more irregular. The colours
which are neither white nor those of the spectrum, may be con
ceived to correspond to undulations in which there is an ap
proach to regularity by the preponderance of two or more sets
of equal intervals.
IfNewton asserts that the sun's light is not perfectly white, but
has a tincture of yellow.                   there be a preponderance of any
colour, the preceding theory would lead us to                    eAxCpe,cwt hiticwho, ualds
be of that which corresponds to the ordinate
may be judged from Fraunhofer's curve, is situated in the yellow
part of the spectrum. (See the figures to Articles 419 and 496
IfopthofenHevenartlsucephoeorlt'fsioAn,Tscroehraartevisseep.oI)nvdeirnFygorlatrotgheteh, egarnoedradtieLnravtneeurmyAbCnee*ra.rolyf  the com
                                                                                                                                     equal to

         a  part   othf ethreesst pceocmtrupmountdoewdarads sbethfoere,vioAleCt  end                                               be inter
cepted,       and                                                                will                                              be shifted
            towards the red end, but D E considerably
a little                                                                                                                            more so.
Thus D E and A C will be brought nearer each other, and the
compound, if yellow before, will now be more decidedly yellow.
By stopping a still greater portion, these ordinates will approxi

mate still more, till they coincide, and at length D E passes to
the other side of AC. In the mean while the resulting colour
Ifwill pass through orange till it becomes red.

        the spectrum he progressively stopped, beginning at the
other                                      colours will be       oarpdipnraotxeismaAtCio,nsDEto
those   end, the resulting                violet end. The
       that lie towards the
will never in this case coincide, since the greater portion of
Ifthe light of the spectrum lies towards the red end.

       the middle part of the spectrum were stopped, the colour
which results by compounding the remainder may not be any
in the spectrum, though the two parts of which it is composed,
taken separately, give nearly spectrum colours ; for by the union
of these two parts, the intervals between the points of no ve
locity become more irregular than in either of them, the effect
of combination being in general to increase the irregularity.
   All this                               well with what is      said in Art. 409 of
                   IfTagrereaetsisev. ery"     the violet light  be intercepted, the
Herschel's

   · The residuum colour would be different for a different form of the curve.
May not the colours of the fixed stars be owing to a difference of this kind .'

                                                        2N 2
548 FOORTII REPORT -- 1834.
white will acquire a tinge of yellow ; if the blue and green be

successively stopped, this yellow will grow more and more ruddy,
and pass through orange to scarlet and blood red. If, on the
other hand, the red end of the spectrum be stopped, and more
and more of the less refrangible portion thus successively abs
tracted from the beam, the white will pass first into pale, and

Ifthen to vivid green, blue-green, blue, and finally into violet.

the middle portion of the spectrum be intercepted, the remain
ing rays, concentrated, produce various shades of purple, crim
 son, or plum-colour."

    The subject of this paper admits of more lengthened and ac
curate treatment than is given to it here. The object of this
communication is merely to call attention to a circumstance
which appears to have been overlooked in the undulatory
 theory of light, viz. an analogy existing between the composi
tion of colours and the composition of small vibrations.

On the Achromatism of the Eye ; in continuation of a Paper
itnhethReevla.sBt aVdoelunmPe oowfetlhl,e  British Association Reports.       By
                                           M.A., F.R.S., Sav. Prof, of
                                                                            Geo

metry, Oxford.

In the paper referred to the author inadvertently introduced
a formula which he did not observe was incorrect till the sheet
had been printed. The correct expression will be found by
taking the general formula for the principal focal length (F)
after refraction through two surfaces, at which the relative in
                the sines in the           order  of transmission) are /* /»,
dices (taking                              to be  affected by their proper
and the radii   r r (remaining

signs), which is (see the author's Optics, p. 23,)
                ft-i1
                =  !                       rLfLp=.,?J..'
                F
                   r,  (u,

Adapting this to a double convex lens (when r becomes nega

tive), and equating similar expressions for the red and violet
rays, the condition of achromatism will be found to be

                fV _ [(*· + r,)fir- rj n,
                                           f*» --
              is
                                               r;)
                                                                    r,}

                                                                 is
                f*/» [('* +                                            f-r

When    this    fulfilled, achromatism may                             be produced by the
        of the  medium in which the focus                              formed. This prac
nature

tically differs little from what was given in the former paper.
                   TRANSACTIONS OK THE SECTIONS.                             519

OnSoafthvUe. nPTdrhuoelafo,triyoonfosG.fetBohmey eDtthirseyp,ReerOsvxi.ofonBradd.oefnLPigohwt eblyl,thMe.AH.y,pFot.hRe.Ssi.s,

The object of this communication was principally to give
a brief view of the nature of the explanation afforded by
M. Cauchy's analysis of the dispersion, which has hitherto pre
sented so formidable a difficulty, whether to the undulatory or
to any other theory, and of some important suggestions which
have been made with respect to it. An attentive examination
of the quantities entering the analysis points out a limitation,
or condition, which must be annexed to M. Cauchy's conclu
sion. It is the object of his analysis to show that there exists
generally a relation between the length of a wave and the time
of its propagation. It appears from the nature of the expres

sions employed, that, in order that this should hold good uni
                   must add to his original hypothesis
versally,  we      the aetherial medium this condition,  as to      "thtehecodni
stitution                                                that
           of
stance between two molecules must not be very small compared
with the length of an undulation.

OnsMta.tnAhce.e,sRFbe.yRpu.tShlse.io,AncStaioven.xcPoitrefodHf,eobaeftt.wGeeBeoynmtehSteuryrRf,aecvOe.xsfBoaraddt .emn inPuoteweDlil,

That bodies at very small but finite distances repel each
other when                         seems probable from the analogy  of expan
sion by heat       heated,        supposed to be proved from some   very deli
                                  doubtful, experiments of Libri, Sargey, and
                   ; --was
                                  been assumed by Professor Forbes as afford
cFaretes,neblu; t--peanrhdahpass
ing an explanation of the vibrations of heated metallic bars, first
                    Mr.
obsAervseimdpleby        Trevelyan.  the  experiment  occurred      to  the  au
                   mode   of trying

thor of this communication. Two lenses of very small curva
ture are laid upon one another, without pressure, and form the
coloured rings. These afford an accurate test of the interval
between the glasses. Heat being applied, the rings always
contract, and the colours always descend on the scale ; or the
glasses are separated, and consequently repel each other.
The curvature, or warping, of the glass, owing to the heat,
will, upon consideration, be found to be such as ought, in the
first instance, to diminish the angle of contact, and conse

quently to make the rings enlarge.

   It should also be observed that the curvature must be suffi
550 FOURTH REPORT 1834.

ciently small to produce rings of considerable diameter, other
wise the surfaces in contact will not be sufficiently large to
allow sufficient effect to overcome the weight or inertia of the

glasses.

   The author has made various other researches on the sub

ject, which have been recently communicated to the Royal So
ciety, and which will appear in the forthcoming volume of its
Transactions. In particular he has attempted to compare the
times of communication of heat through two glasses in seve
ral degrees of                                                              found
it rather more  contact       (as  estimated by the tints),  and has          But
                 rapid      with   the higher degrees of     contact.

when the central black is produced, it requires a considerable
heat to overcome the powerful attraction which subsists at that
minute distance. Some singular illustrations of the intensity
of this force have been observed. It seems not improbable that

at this distance there may be a limit where attraction becomes
predominant. The contact between glass and liquids is proba
bly within this limit, since no heat seems capable of overcoming
the attraction. Again, the repulsive power seems capable of
being excited by heat only within a certain limit the other way,

and between surfaces regularly opposed to each other. An
iron at a bright red heat could not be made to repel a delicately
suspended gilt card disc, though brought to about one tenth
of an inch distance.

Suggestions respecting Sir John Herschel 's Remarks on the
          oWf tihleliaAmbsoWrphtieonweolfl,LigFh.Rt.Sby.  coloured  Media.  By
Theory
the Rev.                                                  F.G.S.

  IAt the meeting of the British Association last year, Sir John

Herschel made some remarks*, the object of which was, con
ceive, to show, that though it may not be easy to determine at
present in what way the dark lines of the spectrum and other
phaenomena of absorption are produced by the undulations of
the luminiferous aether, it is not difficult to show that there are
Iways in which those undulations may produce phaenomena of
such a kind.    would beg leave to add one or two considera

tions, which  athpapteairf  to me to bear upon what he then         stated.
He observes                 undulations have to traverse canals      which

ramify and meet again, there may be certain relations among
the lengths or other conditions of these canals which may pro
duce a destruction of undulations for one particular rate of vi
bration, and thus produce a dark line for one particular colour

in the luminiferous vibrations. To this view might be objected,

· Since published in the Philosophical Magazine, December, 18.'!3.
TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                                                                            561

(1.) the great number of the dark lines in many kinds of light,
which would appear to make a very complex structure of me
hdyiapontehceessissa,ryt,he(2a.)bsthoerpdtiivffeicuplrtoypeorfticeosncoefivminegditahasth, oounldsubceh
                                                                                                          an
                                                                                                         the

same in all directions. Both these objections seem to be much

diluted by the following considerations :

   1. A combination of channels of vibration which would
oafnythraatteraotfe,viibfrathtieonv,ibwraotuinldg
                                                   also destroy  all the
                                                   body were a   line.
destroy                                                                   har*
                                                                           the
Ifmonies
fundamental rate were much slower than those which were no

ticed by the senses,  this  consideration would     give many more
vibrating rates near  each                         the fundamental
                             other. Thus, if

rate were a million undulations a second, we should have a
dark line for every multiple of this; and, therefore, since red
light makes 458,000,000,000,000 vibrations, and violet light
727,000,000,000,000 vibrations, per second, we should have
270,000,000 lines in the spectrum on this account only.
   But it is to be observed that the vibrating masses of the
aether are not lines. The experiments on vibrating plates have
shown that the harmonics of plates are more numerous and va
ried than those of lines, as theory also shows. But the vibra
ting masses of aether are solid spaces, and the way in which
they may be divided by nodal surfaces into portions vibrating
isochronously will be still more various ; so that in this way the
rates of vibration for which the vibration is extinguished may

Ifbecome as numerous as any observations can require.

   2. we conceive with Sir John Herschel a medium which
will not transmit vibrations except through certain canals, these
canals must have a determinate direction ; and therefore such
a constitution of diaphanous bodies would give different pro
portions in different directions. But let a medium consist of
certain particles regularly distributed, the intervening space
being filled by a medium capable of vibration. Let it be sup
posed, also, that each vibration, on reaching a medium so dis
posed, proceeds in part directly, and in part by the indirect
routes which go round some of the particles and rejoin the di
rect course. We have thus combinations of ramifying and re
uniting paths, which, though very complex in each direction,
Ifare the same in different directions, in consequence of the re
gular distribution of the particles.               the distribution, though
regular, have a reference to certain axes, as in many crystals,
the phaenomena of absorption may be different in different di
rections with regard to these axes.
   In this way the theory of ramifying canals comes to coincide
with the theory of vibrations, of which parts are differently re
552 FOURTH REPORT 1834.

tarded, and thus interfere with each other ; a theory which has
been suggested by other authors.

   It is acknowledged that the above hypotheses are arbitrary.
The object is to show that there is no incongruity between the
undulatory theory and the phaenomena of absorption. For it

may be observed, the above hypotheses do not at all interfere
with the laws hitherto assumed in the calculations of the undu
latory theory. When the laws of the absorption here spoken
of are known, the undulatory theorist will have before him the
task of pointing out what is the constitution of transparent me
dia. The object of the present remarks is to show that the
existence of a constitution which shall embrace the facts as far
as we know them, is not at all at variance with the undulatory
theory.

On  the   VisibiliRteyv.oTf .thRe.  Moon in Total Eclipses.  By the
                                    Robinson, D.D., §c.

Some years since, the late Sir John Leslie brought forward
an hypothesis, that the planets, and in particular the moon,

shine, not, as is commonly supposed, by reflected light, but by
a kind of phosphorescence ; either absorbing solar light and
emitting it with some modification, or becoming luminous in
consequence of its action. He supported this opinion with his
usual ingenuity, and in particular availed himself of the argu
ments afforded by the moon's secondary light, and the red ap
           of her disc in total eclipses.   oTfh"eefairrstht sohfinteh,e"seanhde
pearance  far too intense to be the result
thought
the second still more disproportioned to that which is com
monly reputed its cause, the refraction of rays transmitted
through the earth's atmosphere. His reasoning on these facts
is, however, vitiated by defective data, for he certainly under
rates the reflective force of unpolished surfaces, and exagge
rates the moon's light ; and the author would not have reverted
to it but for an appearance that presented itself during the
eclipse of December 26th, 1833. While the moon was enter
ing the shadow, the eclipsed portion exhibited the usual yel
lowish red glare, which in this case, from the great illuminating
power of the telescope, was very striking, giving the idea of an
immense globe of brass faintly ignited. This was least bright
but most coloured at the eastern limb, and the division between
it and the portion still enlightened by the sun was made by a
zone of blueish grey light about 30" or 40" broad, which was
seen by several persons with this telescope. This disappeared
when the moon was totally immersed. At the middle of the
         TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                                5*5

eclipse her surface was all red, but towards its close a kind of
twilight spread over that part towards the place of emersion,
which became at length so bright as to make the moment of its
occurrence inappreciable. As soon as a portion of illuminated
surface was decidedly seen, the above zone could again be traced,
and was seen till about one third of the disk had reappeared.
This zone the author supposes to be the effect of those rays
that pass through the atmosphere, their illumination being
greatest near the edge of the shadow and gradually decreasing
towards its axis, which, as he presently shows, it is improbable
that any of them ever reach except at a distance far beyond
the moon. The reddish light must proceed from some other
cause, which the author does not attempt to conjecture ; it is
commonly ascribed to the absorption of the more refrangible
rays in  their transmission,   oanfdeviellnuisntgr.atedBubtyifretfheirsenacbesortoptitohne
setting  sun and the clouds

be effected by the vapours diffused in the atmosphere rather
than by the air itself, we are forced to conclude that no light
can pass through the region where they occur bright enough
to be sensible when reflected from the moon.
The deviation of a ray of light passing through our atmo
          will be twice        horizontal                        of that stratum
sphere   which is at      the  vertex of        refraction      Considering this
                         the                   its path.
of air
stratum as an elementary zone of a refracting sphere, it will form

an imagee of the sun at the distance -s:m--27mH when r = zone's
radius and H the horizontal refraction. In this image all the

rays transmitted by the zone must be found ; and the inverse
proportion of their areas would give the ratio of direct sunshine
to that of the refracted light were air perfectly transparent.
This ratio can easily be transferred from the image to the lunar
section; and summing the effect of any number of these zones,
we obtain the lunar illumination derived from the source.

                                               9^

TLet, for instance, T I and G be refracted rays coming from
tRheGlo. weIrGanwdillubpepetrhepoimintasgeo;f  the sun's disc,  and   also R I
                                               after which the  rays            and
                                                                       diverge  and
                           FOURTH RKPORT-- 1834.

all that have passed through the element T will be found in the
line N H at the distance of the moon ; and going round the
zone, all its light in the circles described with N M, H M as
radii.
   TARThe cones            and K L C are dark, but in I A C and
ICG the intensity is       doubled by the                                                      As
                           taken higher in                stehcetioantmoovseprhlearpepinHg.
the refracting zone is                                    M till they coincide,              dimi
nishes, and the point      A approaches
                                                                                               and
the point M, or that point of the moon which is central in the

shadow, receives no light from the higher zones.
                    Putting S = sun's semidiameter,
                         and p = moon's hor. parallax,

we have IAM = AEI + AIE = S + 2H;
but when A coincides with M, I A M = p, and at the limit

H  =  --*--      ,  or at  their mean  values             (Baily's  formulae)
              ^

                                    H = 20' 29"-7,

scarcely less than that observed by the academicians at Quito.
   The angle
                           -NEM = S + 2H-/j

                           M E H = S 2H-p.
         calling I the
Hence,                     Tin,tewnesiotybtaoifnligfohrt   in  the pencil transmitted
through   the element                                     the  zone's addition to the
density  of illumination in O H or N M, omitting the higher
powers of h, the height above the surface,
                                    p* x.1 x. dh
                           rtTi --
                           ~r{S«+(2H-/>)8};

Ifintegrating which between the        limits (H)                   =    35' 6" and
                                       illumination                 of
H = 2C 29"'7, we obtain half the                                        the point M.
   we take H = p -- S -- n for the latter limit, we obtain the
mean illumination of a space, whose diameter is 2n. For
this we require to know the relation between S and H, but it
depends on the law of density, of which we know little more
than this, that it must be between the decreasing geometrical
and arithmetical progressions when h increases in the latter.
For the present purpose it is sufficient to assume it such as will
                    actual condition of the atmosphere
represent the       is afforded by the observations which               between (H)
                                                                        Gay Lussac
and H. This
made in his celebrated aeronautic expedition. The heights as
given in the account of it depend on Laplace's hypothesis of the
decrease of temperature, being each derived from comparison
with the barometer of the observatory ; but we avoid this para
               TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                           555

logism, if we break the total elevation into a sum of smaller

ones, as through a few hundred feet the average temperature
can differ but little from the half-sum of the extremes. Deriving
the densities from the barometer heights and temperatures,
using the expansion of dry air, we find very nearly

                                . ax

when a = 39534 feet and x is the decrease of density divided
by that at the surface.

   As the horizontal refraction is proportional to the density of
air at the vertex of the ray's trajectory,

                    X-(H)-H '                                          for this in
                                              (H)

  The quantity I is given with sufficient accuracy

-2sHquiry (see M4c. C6L, iv. 283.) by the equation
                         I = e,

e being the base of Napier's logarithms, and t a coefficient de
rived from the observed extinction of light in traversing the

atmosphere, which for H = (H) is supposed to give

                              1 = "3746 '

Substituting these expressions and putting
2H-»a /¥¥x
               2(H)- p                 S

and developing d h, we obtain
         "Vy
dD=                           xlf+^yfA-B.y + C^-.&e.]
       rS«Xif(1-")

_in which A = 1 . -(- 2 X.s, and the others B, C, &c., its suc

cessive differential coefficients divided by 1, 1'2, &c., which
are easily derived independently. This series is converging,
though but slowly, and 27 terms of it give for the integral be

tween  the  limits y =     +  ---- ----    .
                                        ^
       r -D
            =  1 0' 93368  -j 5-34377                              ~\
                  [u,0
                                              0-02635 1.

Thus we find that for a circle 7 minutes radius round the axis
of the shadow, the illumination derived from this source must
556 FOURTH REPORT-- 1834.

be the hundred and ten millionth of direct sunshine, which as
suredly would illude all vision; and as the moon's latitude at
the middle of the eclipse was only four minutes, a considerable
part of its disc ought to have been dark.
The only part of this reasoning which may be questioned is
the coefficient e. It was derived by Laplace from Bouguer's
experiments, and we cannot but feel that we have a right to
demand something better from the improved powers of mo
dern research. The actinometer, described at the last Meeting
of the Association, (see Reports of      the Cambridge Meeting,
p. 379,) promises such a result, which,
                                         if possible, should be ob
tained at different elevations, and accompanied with determina
tions of the density and hygrometric state of the air. In the
ascent of Gay Lussac he did not pass the region of clouds ; but
even at heights much inferior, it is possible the quantity of ab
sorption may be very different from what prevails at the sur
face. We also want a comparison of moonlight with sunshine.
The author states that these remarks are submitted to the Sec
tion in hopes that some of its members maybe induced to turn
their attention to supply these desiderata. It is also probable
that, if carefully examined, traces of polarization would be found
in that blueish        illumination which has been noticed              at the
                 grey  were wanting in the red part of the              lunar
same time. If    they
disc, this would decide the difference of their causes. This,
however, the author could not try, as, independent of other rea
sons, the first were too faint to be visible through a plate of
tourmaline, the only analyser which he possessed.

Account of some Observations made for the purpose of deter
mining the Positions of the  Axes  oPrfoOfepsstiocralMEliallsetirc.ity  in  ob

lique prismatical Crystals.    By

   In crystals belonging to this system it is well known that
one of the axes of optical elasticity coincides with that crystal-

lographic axis which is perpendicular to the other two axes.
The object of the observations was to determine the position of

the remaining two axes of optical elasticity, and, if possible, to

discover some general law by which their position could be
made to depend upon the form of the crystal. After having
found the positions of the axes of elasticity in a variety of
oblique crystals, the hypothesis suggested by Neumann's ob
servations on gypsum, viz., that the faces of the crystal could
be referred to the axes of elasticity as crystallographic axes,
was tried, but, except in one instance, did not succeed. In many
crystals no other relation between the form and axes of elasti-
              TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.              557

city could be traced. But in felspar, epidote, and pyroxene,
according to the author's own observations, and in chromate of
lead according to the observations of Professor NSrrenberg,
one of the axes of elasticity in question coincides very accurately
with the axis of one of the principal zones of the crystal.

AnBAyccRo.unAtddoafmas,  new Phenomenon of sonorous Interference.
                         Lecturer on Chemistry and Natural Philo

sophy.

   Two systems of sound waves, simultaneously generated by a
tuning-fork, in tubes, interfere and neutralize each other when
the axes, or lines of direction in which the two systems are
propagated, are at right angles to each other.

   The apparatus which the author of this communication em
ploys to demonstrate the foregoing case of interference, consists
of two glass tubes, one inch in diameter, each furnished with
a piston, in order to adjust the length of the included column
of air, so as to make it unisonant with a tuning-fork (according
to the method first devised by Mr. Wheatstone). These tubes
are placed rectangularly, one vertically, the other horizontally,
and with their mouths in contact, edge to edge.

   When a tuning-fork is vibrated, and held so that the medial
line between its branches coincides with the intersecting point
of the axes of the tubes, there will be no sound heard ; but
upon covering the mouth of either tube with a card, an audible
sound is reciprocated by the air in the open one.

   Variations in the intensity of the sound occur by altering the
angle of position of the tubes.

Account of Magnetical Observations in Ireland, and of a New
Method of observing      the Dip and the Force           with the same
Instrument. By the       Rev. Professor Lloyd,
                                                         F.T.C.D.

In the last Report of the Transactions of the British Asso
c"iatthioant   for the  Advancement      of Science   it was recommended,
              a series  of observations   upon the   intensity of terrestrial
magnetism be executed in various parts of the kingdom, similar
to those which have been carried on in Scotland by Mr. Dun-
lop ; and that observations should be made in various places
with the dipping-needle, in order to reduce the horizontal to
the true magnetic intensity." After alluding
pied in the preliminary observations required        to  sthuechtima etasokc,c--u
                                                     in

such as those made to ascertain the magnetic condition of the
needles used for the force, and the changes of this condition
558 FOURTH REPORT 1834.

dependent on temperature, -- Professor Lloyd proceeded to
give an account of a series of observations which had been
commenced in Ireland by Captain Sabine and himself, and of
the steps which had been taken to carry into effect the recom
mendation of the Association in that country.
The first object of the observers was to compare, with accu
racy, the direction and intensity of the magnetic force at Dub
lin and Limerick, the two stations from which it was proposed
to set out. This was accomplished with much care, the mag

netic intensity at the two stations having been compared by a
repeated interchange of needles ; and in this manner a close
approximation was made to the direction of the magnetic lines
in Ireland, and thus the most favourable points of observation
ascertained. The latter of these two stations has recently
been compared with London, by an interchange of needles be
tween Captain Sabine and Commander Ross ; and a similar com
parison of the total intensity in London and Dublin has been
made by Professor Lloyd, so that the series is thus connected
with observations taken elsewhere. The series itself will, it is
hoped, be shortly completed, and a connected view of the re
sults laid before the Association at its next meeting.
   Besides the usual method of determining the terrestrial mag
netic intensity suggested by Hansteen, Professor Lloyd adopted
another, in which the dip and the intensity are ascertained by
the same observation, and with one instrument. This method

consists in observing the direction assumed by an ordinary dip
Ifping-needle under the combined influence of magnetism and
gravity.  two small weights be successively attached to the
southern arm of the needle, and if ? and 0 denote the inclina
tions of the needle in the two cases, these angles will be con
nected with the dip and the force by the equations

          /a cos £ = Q <r sin (8 -- ?)
          v cos 9 = $ <r sin (8 -- 6),

in which ft and v denote the moments of the added weights, 8
the dip, <p the force, and <r a constant depending on the distri

bution of magnetism in the needle. Hence, if the two moments,

   and be known, and the angles, and be observed, the
two unknown quantities, and $, will be completely determined.

   The friction of the axle, however, which the main source
of error in the dipping-needle, will affect these quantities differ
ently in different positions. Professor Lloyd has found from
theory that the limit of error in the determination of the dip
arising from this cause will be least when the position of the
ft.
              v,

                            8 if
                                                                                    £

                                                                             is 0,
                 TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                      559

needle coincides with the line of the dip, while that of the force
is least when the needle is at right angles to that line. These,
then, are the most advantageous positions for the determina
tion of the two elements ; and accordingly the best mode of ap
plying the preceding method consists in observing, 1st, the
position of the needle when unloaded ; and, 2ndly, when loaded
with a weight sufficient to render it nearly perpendicular to the
line of the dip. As the inclination of the needle in the first
position is nearly equal to the dip, and would be accurately so

if the centre of gravity of the needle perfectly coincided with
the axle, it is convenient to consider this first angle as the ap
Ifproximate value of the dip, and to seek the correction required
in order to reduce it to its true value.            t denote this correc

tion, it can be readily shown from the formulae already given,

that                        sin *=f,-- sin (?-·),
                                           cos $8
                 8 = ?+ .,

p denoting the ratio of the moment of the needle itself to that of
the weight afterwards added. When the needle is well con
structed, this ratio is very small, and the correction itself may
be disregarded. The force is deduced from the second posi
tion of the needle when loaded, and is given by the formula
                            _ -*
                            ~     /3cos  9
                               sin (8
                                            is «)'
being constant, which determined from the values of
|8                          it a                                          8
          S                      is

              a
and at the place where the force taken as unit.
In the usual method the horizontal force determined by
                                                             is

the rate of vibration of horizontal needle, and the actual force
deduced by multiplying by the secant of the dip. The in
strumental errors, therefore, are of two kinds, and as these may
have the same sign, the limit of error thereby increased. But
                                            is

even supposing the determination of the horizontal force to be
perfect, the limit of error in the actual force, arising from the
error of the dipping-needle, to that in the method now pro
                   is
                                it is

                                                         is
posed, in the ratio of the tangent of the dip to unity so that
                                                                 ;

the latter method           more accurate whenever the dip exceeds

45°, and in our latitudes its accuracy                       nearly three times
greater than that of the received method. This result has been
verified by observation, and has been found that, with a small
circle 4£ inches in diameter, the value of the force deduced from
the mean of two or three observations may be depended on
with certainty, to the third place of decimals inclusive.
560 FOURTH REPORT -- 1834.

On an apparent Anomaly in the Measure of Rain. By Sir

      Thomas M. Brisbane, President of the Association.
   Sir Thomas M. Brisbane has for some time observed a curious
fact with respect to the rain collected in his gauge, the receiver
of which is 7 feet from the ground, and about 210 feet above
the level of the sea. The rain always stands in the gauge some
hundredths of an inch higher an hour or two after it has fallen
than it doesybwr or Jive hours after; and the author suggests

that the phaenomenon may be owing to atmospheric air absorbed
by the drops in their descent, and afterwards slowly escaping
from the gauge.

US'eeccond Report of    the  Result of Twelve Months' Experiments
                             Rain falling at different Elevations above
     on the Quantities  of
psotPhoefhepriithmSlhliueciepranfAlsatssc,Ss,eooFbcc.oyRiiaef.ttPtSiyhor.oen;fFewG.sbriGstoyho.urSWnR.d,ePimlhSalitaeialrclmYkirpesotrsakoG.,rnireuatsnhydeo,efRrJttuehakesneu.Yn,ltosaraknotsdfhthitPrehereorsfePeeqhsuEsielooxsrt

CaIm. bRriedpgoertMoefetthinegExopfetrhiemeAnstsso.c--iatTiohne*  report presented to the
                                                                    contained the register
for twelve months of the quantities of rain collected above the
top of York Minster, on the top of the Yorkshire Museum, and
on the ground adjacent ; the elevations of the upper stations

being 212 feet  1s0e£rieinschoefs,twaenlvde  43 feet 8            inches.        with  the
   The present                                 months             is continuous

former, and commences on February 1 , 1833. The same gauges
were used with the same precautions as in the previous year;
but for particular objects the intervals of measuring the con
tents of the gauges were purposely and considerably varied. It
will be recollected that the discharge-pipe of the gauges was
stated to have been kept stopped with a cork, and during the
whole of the first twelve months this was always observed ; but
for more than three months of the present series the cork of
one of the gauges (the middle one) was left out. Comparative
experiments were made to determine the probable increased
loss from evaporation arising from this cause and a compensa
tion calculated. The corrected numbers are placed in the co
lumn, and the original observations in smaller figures on the
side.

       · See Reports of the Brithh Association, vol. ii. p. 401.
                    TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                                                      5(31

1833-1831.                        Minster.        Museum.            Ground.

Feb. 1 to Feb. 28.                Inches.                Inches.     Inches.   ["Chiefly snow and hail
                                   1-509          2-108              2-834    < and cold rain drift-
March       13.                                                                L ingfromN.N.W.,&c.
            28.                      1327          1560 (-539)          1791
                                     1540           1687 (-663)
April       21.                                     1745 (-709)      1018     J["Rain
                                     1570           1787 (-735)      1030           3rd,

May .       20. 1686                              0-                  1-015               fell on the 2nd,
                                                  1-942(1-902)                            4th, and 20th of
                                                                      0-
            .10. 0-                                  1619                     L May.
            17. 1-525                             1-030
June .                                                               2-386
July .        1. 1559                               .484
August                                                                 1791       Small Hymenoptera
                            1810                  3000               1-246         in the Minster gauge.

                         Ml.        1391             1473!             1575      With Mr. Lubbock.
September . 16.                   2-175                              3-835
                                                                              { Small Hymenoptera
                                                                       1460        in the Minster gauge.

                                                                                 This is the only obser
                                                                                 vation in which the

October .   8. .386                                                              middle station had

                                                                                 most water.           The

                                                                                 nights were exces

                             11.    1050            1083               1106         sively dewy.
                         17.        1263            1373               1406      "With Major Emmett,
                                                  1-574              1-894                             fall of
November . 12.                    1-216                                       m^ just after the        rain.
                                                  2-558              3-641     (_ perpendicular
                                                                                 High winds.
                                                  2-798           !  3-678                    violent
December . 31. 1-811                                              ;           i["MNo.sWt .       Snow    gales
                                                                                                       on the

February . 1 . 2139                                                           \_ 11th of December.
Totalof 12 months 14-963
                                                  19-852             25-706

  II.   Remarks on the                          Results    ogafutgheesExapt eYroimrkenatnsd.  -- The quan
        of rain collected                       in other                                      in the neigh
tities

bourhood agree nearly with those recorded for the ground
        in these experiments. For 1833, from February 1 to
-£ilnM J.fa>uegceember 31,
      At York                     we       have,

                                  fin      the  -ga"rden" gauge "             "               22-028
                                                  Gray's self-registering        gauge        22-205
                                        i  Mr.

        In gDroru.nWd,as1s2e'msilegsauNge.,WMoat Hall, on higher 23-488
        Mr. Cholmeley's, at Brand shy ; level with top
        of Minster, 12 miles N.                                                               24' +
The quantities and ratios at the several stations for particular
periods of the year are as under :

1834.                                                     1Jo
562 FOURTH REPORT 1834.

           Periods.                   On                   On            On           Ratio*.
                                  Minster.            Museum.        Ground.
....Whole year                  In. of Rain.         In. of Rain.  In. of Rain

7 colder months .        48-2   14-963               19-850        25-706       58-20 77-21"]
7 warmer months          40-8    8-817                             15-858       55-6 . 75-4
5 colder months .        55-5    7-415               11-959        11-850
5 warmer months                   7-548               9-606        13-856       62-6 810
Winter quarter .         393      6-146
Spring                           5-459               10-285          9-848      54-6 74-2
                         58-5    2129                              10-153
                         36-3    3-285                 7-932                    62-4   80-5    'lOO
                                 4-090                 7-464         3-854      53-8    73-3
                         47-6                         2-779          4-998      55-2  721
                         60-8                         4105           6-701
                         48-3                         5-503                     j65-7 821

                                                                                610 821

   On comparing these ratios with those obtained in 1832, it is
impossible not to be struck with their wintry character, which
agrees with the fact of the months of February, March, April,
October, November, and December, being almost diurnally
rainy. In 1832-3 the greatest part of the rain fell in the warm
months ; but in 1833-4 the cold months were most rainy. In
1832-3 the mean diminution of rain was
            on the Minster (r/)
                                                                   33-9 per cent.
            and on the Museum (d1) . . . 14"7
but in 1833--4- these numbers were,

                                                                   41-8

                                                                   22-8

Iwnas18A3'520-,3--tihne  mean annual value of                      the function       of the height
                         1833--4 it was h '*3.                      By uniting
                                                                                      the observa

tions  of thirty         months, (to August           30, 1834,)                A'4S.          will
                         very apparent that          a few years'                observations
   It  is hence
give this mean value very accurately, determine the limits of its
variation,                                             of this upon
perature     and          the   dceapuesnedse. nceI  shall, however,            the monthly tem
            and          other                                                  purposely abstain

from discussing the subject any further at present, because the
experiments will be continued under the present arrangement
six months longer, and thus any                      conclusions                Iwdhoicnhotmwahyolbley
offered rendered more trustworthy.                      Besides,
despair of being furnished with some aid from other
in different regions and under various circumstances,                                 observers

                                                                                       for I am
far from thinking that all the conditions of this curious problem
can be determined at one locality, however favourably situated*.

   · My friend Mr. W. D. Littledale has established three gauges at Bolton-Hall,
in Craven, and Mr. A. Halliday has obliged me by undertaking a similar labour
at Manchester.
                  TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                    563

   The following table shows the sum of the diminutions per
cent, of quantity of rain at the two upper stations for two years,
with a column of numbers inversely proportional to the tempera
ture during the several parts of the year.

                                           In 1833-4. Mean.  At    Di (Terence.

                                                             1

Whole year . . .                  48-6     64-6   56-6       58-7   2-1 +
7 cold months .                   61-9     79-0   70-4              10--
7 warm months                     41-7     56-4              69-4   2-0+
                                  74-8     71-2   490               10--
5 cold months .                   47-1     57-1   730        510    3-7--
5 warm months                     82-2     73-4   521               0-2+
Winter                            60-2     72-7              72-0   6-9--
                                  30-4     52-2   77-8       48-4   5-3+
Spring                            57-5     56-9   66-4              1-4+
Summer                                            41-3       78-0
Autumn                                            57-2       59-5  110 +
                                                                   12-6--
                                                  56-60      46-6

                                                             58-6

Mean values of d+d', whole year*. . .

                  7 cold and 7 "1          59-75
                                           62-55
                   warm months/            59-55    60-91
                                           61-80
                  j5 cold and 5 |
                    warmmonths
                  3 cold and 3 )

                           warm months J
                  SpringandAu- 1

                           turnn        I

                                                  117-51

           General mean (a)                         58-75

   By comparing the last column with the mean values of d + d',
their almost exact coincidence will be immediately evident ; and
therefore it appears that the conclusion advanced in the last
Report, p. 408, as to this value being an inverse function of the
temperature, is now strongly supported by additional observa
tions, the whole nearly agreeing with the simple formula

                                 At = d + d'.

On the Difference of       the    Quantity of Rain  Gartoduinffde.rentBHyeLiguhktes
above the
           SFu.Rrf.aSc.e,  of     the neighbouring
Howard,
                           J-c.

   The author, referring to the experiments on this subject,
printed in the second volume of the Reports of the British As
sociation, pp. 401, &c, proposes a different opinion as to the
cause of the augmentation of the quantity of rain at the lower

stations.

                                  2o2
   5G4             FOURTH REPORT 1834.

      He allows that this effect of the coldness of the superior rain
   enters for something into the aggregate of the causes of increase
   by descent ; but that it is considerable or appreciable he does

   not admit.
      He observes (and refers for further particulars to his work on
   the Climate of London), that rain falls principally in two ways :
   1 . By the condensation or collapsing of the mass of an elevated
   cloud,  (effected by the subtraction  of the electrical atmosphere
   of the  cloud, or by the extension    of the atmospheres of the
   spherules of the cloud, through their mutual attraction, the

   electrical charge now taking its seat upon the smaller surface
   of a congeries of larger drops, as is manifest by the charge

   these give to the insulated rod,) or, 2. By loss of heat in the
   whole mass of air from which it is about to rain (this lowered
   temperature being the actual cause of the rain), in which case
   the separation of the water is effected precisely in the manner
   of the precipitation of solids from a menstruum in which they
   were held in solution. The nascent drops exist in every part
   of the raining space, and find their way to the earth subject to
   the small augmentation, by virtue of the lower temperature
   found at greater heights above mentioned.

      In the first case the rain at the top of a building and the rain

   at the ground are equal in amount ; in the second, there is an
   augmentation in the lower strata, which so overbalances the
   former case, both in frequency and amount, as to give the aver
   ages the character they exhibit.

   An attempt to   cowninthecet sstoambleishoefdthPehybseicsta-kl nPorwinn ciPphlecesn.omBeynaProof
      Meteorology
   fessor Stevelly, A.M., of Belfast.

   The author examines, in this point of view, the following
   four points :
   1 . The nature and origin of clouds ;
   2. The production of rain, and some of its consequences ;
   3. The origin of wind from clouds or rain ;
         The formation of hail.
   4.    Nature and Origin of    Clouds. --The  author  adopts  the
   1.
   opinion, that the constituent particles of clouds are minute
   spherules, but not vesicles ; and refers the suspension of clouds
   to two causes: the extreme slowness of descent through the air
   of such exceedingly minute particles, and the repulsive action
   of the electrical atmospheres of these particles upon the ambient
   air.
   Clouds are stated to owe their origin to the excess of vapour

.
               TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                             565

which at any time happens to exist in the air, collected into
drops by the capillary attraction of the elementary particles,
which now appear as spherules of water; the spaces around
them becoming drier than before, and the whole space occupied
         cqluoaundtihtyaviongf                       reduced in
by  the                         its elastic tension  into water.  proportion
to  the                         vapour converted
                                                                   In conse
quence of this circumstance, a diminution of sensible tempera
ture will be occasioned, and a secondary formation of clouds
may take place, notwithstanding some addition, on the other
hand, from the development of the heat latent in the vapour.
   The atmospheric equilibrium being thus disturbed, wind will

blow from all points toward the cloud, and if this was previously
in motion, there will be a comparative calm before the cloud,
and a strong wind following it. Hence the appearance of the
edges of driving clouds varies ; small portions detach themselves
from the ragged posterior part, and float away, while the an
terior part is of smoother outline, and suffers little change.
   Another consequence of the conversion of the vapour into
drops of water is an increase of electrical intensity in the

cloudy space.
Clouds frequently divide into portions which have opposite
electrical states, when they come into contact with a hill, in
               of  Rthaeine.f--fecWt hoef nthtewoordoipnpaorysitelalwy seloefctinridfiuecdtiocnlo.uds
consequence    of

   2. Origin
rush together, and the spherules unite into drops, these descend
lower in the atmosphere, or fall in the form of rain, which is
more or less heavy, according to the densities of the original
clouds or the degree of their electrical intensity. On the
principles of electrical induction may also be explained the
cessations and renewals of rain, and the intermitting peals of
thunder.
   As the rain descends, a void space is occasioned in the place
lately occupied by the clouds, and a depression of temperature
in the superior regions, by the expansion of the air. An in
crease of temperature, to a smaller extent, happens below, from
                   Woinf dt.he--aBirre. ezes
the condensation                              and  gales  are  produced  by the

  3. Origin of
secondary formation of clouds, particularly when the clouds are
formed from a mass that has, in appearance, attached itself to a hill.
   Squalls are gusts of wind caused by heavy showers passing

over the country in vast and distinct patches. In the front of
the shower the wind is driven out by the rain most violently
in the direction in which the general current was previously
moving. Towards the close of the shower, however, the wind
becomes moderate, or even reversed, the chief rush of the air
566 FOURTH REPORT 1834.

from behind being directed upwards, to supply the spaces
above. The author states that the phenomena of tropical and
other extraordinary rains and winds agree with the results
which may be deduced from the foregoing facts and consi
derations.
   4. Origin  of hail. --Referring  to Sir J.  Leslie's  experiments,
and to the well-known effects of the compressed air in the
engine at Chemnitz, the author explains the formation of hail
by stating, that when very sudden and violent falls of rain take
place, especially in summer, the air, expanding into the void
space left aloft, robs the succeeding rain so effectually of its
caloric as to freeze the drops. The author proposes to pub
lish his views in an enlarged form, with adequate illustration
by statements of observed facts.

    Extract of a Letter to PCrohfreissstoier . Forbes from Professor

    The writer observed a very peculiar and well-defined light
proceeding, in the form of a ray, from the sun as it was setting,
having the sun for its base, and retaining the same position for
about half an hour. The ray was absolutely vertical, gradually
decreasing in splendour, until it was lost, at about the height
of 20° or 25° above the horizon, expanding but slightly from
its base to this point, and it was unaccompanied by any lateral
rays. Its expansion in breadth did not in any part exceed a
degree and a half on each side. These circumstances attracted
his attention on the occasion of his first witnessing the appear
ance ; and on a more particular examination he was persuaded
that it could not be of the ordinary description of rays, pro
ceeding from an opening in amass of cloud. Independently of
its permanence in a very peculiar position, there were appear
ances in the ray itself which precluded such an opinion. The
30th of June, the day on which he first observed the pheno
menon, had been clear and hot. At the time of the observa
tion, above the sun there were faint streaks of haze, scarcely
to be denominated cloud, increasing in density towards the
horizon, and on these the ray was exhibited ; but he does not
remember to have noticed any well-defined clouds, even in the
horizon. At sunset on the 17th of July he again witnessed this
phasnomenon, but the ray was stronger and better defined than
on the former occasion, and although of much greater extent,
reminded him of the form and appearance of the tail of the
comet of 1819. Its position was, as before, absolutely vertical,
and it continued visible for about half an hour. The sky had
TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                                567

been cloudless all day, and the sun intensely hot; a decided
change of temperature took place about sunset, at which time

a fine breeze from E.S.E. sprung up, gradually increasing,
rendering the evening and night cold. At sunset the sky was

clear, except towards the north and west, where dense masses
of cloud rose a few degrees above the horizon ; and also in the
intermediate part above the sun, where streaks of thin haze
were rendered visible by its light : upon these a narrow but
slightly expanding vertical band of well-defined light, having
the sun for its base, was again exhibited.

   It had occurred to Professor Christie, after he had first
observed this light on the 30th June, that it might be due to a
succession of images of the sun imperfectly reflected by strata
of thin vapour, and all the appearances which he observed on

this second occasion tended to impress this notion more strongly
on his mind ; but he thinks repeated observation of the phaeno-
menon will be required before it can be decided whether this be
the correct explanation. On both occasions, the position in
which Mr. Christie saw the light, was looking almost immediately
across some extent of sea, the sun setting behind the Hants
and Dorsetshire hills. The light was most brilliant very shortly
after sunset, and gradually declined in brightness till it wholly
disappeared, about half an hour afterwards ; but its direction
was invariable, and its general character the same during the
whole time of its continuance. Early on the morning of the

18th July there was thunder and lightning, with rain, which
continued more or less until the middle of the day.

Notes on mean Temperatures in India. By Lieut. Col.
                             Sykes, F.R.S.

The author states the results of several observations of mean
temperature in India, at different elevations above the sea,

between 10° and 25° N. lat., and 70° and 82° E. long., for
comparison with the formulae of Meyer, and the generalizations
of Humboldt and others.
JMhon, in Malwa,
   above the sea ;
in                       lat. 22° 23' is 2000     ofbt.-*|>    0
the                       mean temperature
served by Dr. Craw                                           74-00

JCalculated by Meyer's formula, and adopting"!               »(, Sf'
   the correction of 1° Fahr. for 300 ft. ascent
JCalcutta is
    its mean
in nearly                the same lat. (22° 35')  and"]      78'13
temp, as                 determined in 1781,      and y
again after a lapse of 52 years
There is therefore a difference of 4° 13' between the mean
568 FOURTH REPORT -- 1S34.

temperature of Calcutta and that of Mhon, giving 480 ft.
nearly to each 1° of temperature.
   Ahmednuggur, in the Deccan, in lat. 19° 6', and 1900 feet

above the sea, has a mean temperature, as determined by Dr.
Walker, of 78° Fahr., while the calculated mean temperature at
the level of the sea is 78°-6, giving a difference of 0o-6 of a
degree, for a difference of level of 1900 ft. The mean tem
perature at Col. Sykes's residence in Poona, lat. 18° 30', eleva
tion above the sea 1823 ft., was 77°*7. The calculated mean
temperature at the level of the sea is 78°-94, giving 1° for

1471 feet.
The mean temperature of a spring in the excavated caves in
the Hill-fort of Hurreechundurghur, lat. 19° 23', at 3900 ft.
above the sea, was 690,5 Fahr. The calculated mean tempera
ture at the level of the sea, 78° "45 ; giving 1° Fahr. for 435 ft.
   The mean temperature of Seringapatam, at 2230 ft. above

the sea, is 77o,06, corresponding nearly to the mean of Poona
and Ahmednuggur, although the latter places are between
6° and 7° of lat. further north, and their levels nearly the same.
The calculated mean temperature of Seringapatam, at the level
of the sea, is, by Meyer's formula, 8 1°- 77; by Brewster's amended
formula, 790,9, and by his general formula, including the con
sideration of two poles of maximum       cIonldt,he(sfeierstTcraasnes,thoef
Roy. Soc. Edinburgh, vol. ix.) 76° "55.                                      the

                                                                             dif
ference of temperature corresponding to 2230 ft.=40,71, (or 1°
for 473 ft.) ; in the second, 2°-84 (or 1° for 785 ft.); in the third
the result is negative.
In an observation at a height of 8500 ft., the value due to
each degree of alteration of temperature corresponds very
closely with the general result (332 ft.) adopted by Professor
Forbes in his Report on Meteorology.

   The mean temperature at the equator has been stated at
81^°: the result of 21 years' observations at the Observatory of
Madras, more than 10° from the equator, situated on an open
beach, has determined the mean temperature of that place to
be 810,69; and in general, Col. Sykes concludes that the ob
served mean temperatures in India everywhere exceed those
given by calculation. By the result of several years' observa
tions, he has found that the mean temperature of the hour of
the maximum diurnal atmospheric tide (between 9 and 10 a.m.)
is equal to the mean temperature of the year in India. The
heights of places mentioned in this communication were deter
mined barometrically.
             TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                          569

On a peculiar OscillatioJn. HoafiltshteonBea.rometer.       By the Rev.

   The author presented a table of observations on the height of
the barometer, at short intervals of time, between November 28,
1833, and January 10, 1834. The circumstance in these ob
servations, which the author especially desires to point out for
the attention of meteorologists, is, a small and short oscillation
of the mercury, sending it up seldom above a few thousandths
of an inch, after which deviation it resumes its usual march

again.

On the  use  of  Leslie's Hygrometer with  a  new           Scale.  By

                         H. H. Watson.

   In this communication, the author states the reasoning and
experiments by which he was induced to apply to Leslie's
hygrometer a scale of equal parts, such that the cold produced
by evaporation of water, being measured upon this scale, and
the parts considered to represent degrees of Fahrenheit's ther
mometer, the dew-point, or constituent temperature of the
vapour, should be immediately known. The author states, as
the consistent result of many experiments, that the difference
in degrees between the temperature of the air and the dew-
point, is to the degrees of cold produced in Leslie's hygrometer,
by evaporation of water, as 20 to 13: this ratio is consequently
employed for the divisions of the new scale of the hygrometer,
which thus is supposed to give results sufficiently in accordance
with the direct experiment on the dew-point, to justify its use
in cases where rigorous accuracy is not demanded.

Account of   Experiments  oAnlethxeanEdxpearnJs.ioAndioef,  Stone   by the ap
  plication                                                         Engineer.
             of Heat. By                                     Civil

   The author laid this communication before the Association
principally to give the expansion of sandstone, taken from what
is called the Liver Rock of Craigleith Quarry. The subject
under experiment with the pyrometer, is placed in the interior
of a double metallic case, which is heated by means of a current
of steam, a method which is very convenient for keeping up a
steady temperature for any length of time, and affords great
facility in preserving the substance in the same hygrometric
570 FOURTH REPORT 1834.

state. The length of the rods, of which the expansion was
determined, was 23 inches, and they varied in the cross section
from half an inch to three quarters of an inch square : the length
is laid off on the heads of small silver studs, sunk into the stone.
The micrometer microscope of the pyrometer measures the
thirty-thousandth part of an inch ; and as a test to satisfy him
self of the correctness of the instrument, and of the uniformity
of its results, the author determined the expansion of cast zinc,
selected, as a simple metal, having the greatest range, and his
determination of it agreed very nearly with that given by
Smeaton. He then procured a rod from a very equally-grained
block of sandstone, from what is called the Liver Rock of
Craigleith Quarry, from the same part of the bed from which
the large stone in the pillar of the mural circle in the Edinburgh
Observatory was cut ; it possessed a considerable degree of
flexibility when wet, but gradually stiffened as it became dry.
The expansion of this sandstone, as determined from a length of
twenty-three inches, with a range of temperature of 145° Fahr.,
gives -0270446 of an inch for 180° Fahr., or -001 1758 in decimals
of its length, which is the same as the expansion of glass given
by Berthoud, and very nearly the same as the expansion of cast
iron as found by Lavoisier. Black marble, from Galway, in
Ireland, has the least degree of expansibility of any substance
which Mr. Adie has tried, with the exception of wood. He states
it to be -00043855 of its length for 180° F., which is rather
more than one third part of the expansion assigned by Lavoi
sier to steel, and nearly half that of platinum and glass for
the same number of degrees. He also measured the expansion
of Carrara marble ; but as the specimen used was only one foot
long, he does not state the result numerically: it was less, how

ever, than that assigned to it by M. Destigny. A rod of oak,

split from the tree to insure the straightness of the fibre, ex
panded -000062007 in decimals of its length, for 180° Fahr., which
is just one fifteenth part of the expansion of platinum for the
same number of degrees ; an insensibility to the change of tem
perature which arises very much from the wood being very
dry when the experiment was made. The number here given
is a mean of three trials, but the same rod of wood gave a very
different result when a very small quantity of steam was allowed
to blow into the case which contained it. It is Mr. Adie's in
tention to repeat these and other experiments during the
winter, when he hopes to be able to command a greater range
of temperature in his instrument. He will then give a full
account of them, and the manner in which they have been
                  TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                                        571

performed, together with a drawing of the pyrometer, in order
that it may be the more easy to judge of what reliance may be
put in the accuracy of the results.

           II. CHEMISTRY.-- MINERALOGY.
Table of the Proportions of anhydrous acid in acetic acid of

  every degree of concentration between pure water and the

   hydrated acetic acid, compared with the specific gravities,

  water at 59° Fahr. being taken at unity. Founded on Ex
  periments, by Adam van der Toorn.

Anhydrous                    Anhydrous                    Anhydrous .
Acid in 100 Density at 59°.  Acid in 100 Density at 59°.  Acid in 100 Density at 59^.
parts by weight.             parts by weight
                                                          parts by weight

0 1-0000 29 1-0472 58 10740
1 10019 30 10485 59 10745
2 1-0037 31 1-0498 60 1-0749

3 1-0055 32 1-0510 61 1-0753
4 1-0072 33 1-0522 62 1-0756

5 1-0089 34 1-0534 63 1-0759

6 1-0107 35 1-0546 64 1-0762
7 10124 36 1-0558 65 1-0764

8 1-0141 37 1-0569 66 1-0765

9 1-0159 38 1-0580 67 1-0766

10 1-0177                    39 1 0591                    68*                  1-0766
11 1-0194                                                 69
12 1-0211                    40 1-0601                    70                   1-0766
                             41 10611                                      . 1-0765

13 1-0228 42 1-0621 71 1-0763

14 1-0245 43 1 0631 72 1-0759

15 1-0261 44 10640 73 1-0754

16 1-0277 45 1-0649 74 1-0748
17 10293 46 1-0658 75 1-0741
18 10310 47 1-0667 76 1-0732

19 1-0326 48 1-0675 77 1-0722
20 1-0342 49 1-0683 78 1-0710

21 1-0358 50 1-0691 79 1-0696
22 10373 51 1-0698 80 1-0681

23 1-0389 52 1-0705 81 1-0664

24 1-0404 53 1-0711 82 1-0646

25 1-0419 54 1-0717 83 1-0626

26 . 10433 65 10723 84 1-0603

27 1-0447 56 10729 85 10574
                                              10735
28                1-0460     57                           85-1 1           1-0570
572 FOURTH REPORT -- 1834.

Account of some Experiments on             thBe yElReoctbreicrittyWo.fFtohex.                 Copper
          Vein in Huel Jewel Mine.

   The author transmitted a section of the deepest part of the
mine, with a description of the manner in which he conducted
the experiments on its electricity.

Huel Jewel. Deepest workings on South or Main Lode, which
                underlies about 23° towards the North.

Black and vitreous Copper in the Vein, with some yellow Sulphuret intermixed.

             Wett.
§8 fathoim from \

   the iurfacc.

                     W) fathom*. ".'

                                                                                108 fathoms.
                                      Vitreous BS Copper.

                                           Direction of Electricity from the Vein.

Scale offathoms.                      2(1  Positive. Negative.                                     Distance.

                 in                            C to B                                          19 fathoms.
                                               D ... B                                        37 ditto.
                                              E ... B                                         34 ditto.
                                              C ... F                                         23 ditto.

   The vein consists of black and vitreous copper above, and
below, the yellow sulphuret of copper. Their boundaries are
shown by the dotted lines.
              TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                573

A represents the observed station in a level 98 fathoms
under the surface.
   B, C, D, E,and F, show the points of contact where the metallic
plates or copper wires were pressed against the vein, mostly
by means of a wooden prop ; and the dotted lines represent
the copper wires employed.

    Copper and zinc plates were alternately, or rather succes
sively, used at each of the points of contact with the vein, except

at D ; but these changes of metal did not affect the character
or direction of the electricity, nor did the contact of points only
with the ore do so. But in all cases the easterly wires were
positive with respect to the westerly ones. These experiments
were made in order to prove that the electrical action is derived
from the vein, and that it is not in any degree excited by the
mere contact of the metal with the ore, as some have sur

mised.

   In order to obtain some idea of the electric energy of the vein,
the author placed a galvanic trough as in the circuit, at m, and
caused it to act with the electricity of the vein, and also against
it. In the former case, the deflections of the needle were con
siderably increased ; and in the latter, when the electricity pro
duced by the galvanic apparatus was opposed to that of the
vein, the positive electricity from C was reversed, the gal
vanometer giving evidence of a slight negative action in that
              The                from D, however, was      only just
direction.          electricity  was merely diminished in  intensity,
neutralized,  and
                   that from E
the deflection of the needle being in the same direction, and
equal to about 40°, from the magnetic meridian, instead of 100°
at least, produced by the vein alone.
   The galvanic apparatus consisted of a plate of copper, and

another of zinc, plunged into strong brine, to which some sul
phuric acid was added, and each plate exposed about 180
square inches to the action of the liquid. The voltaic activity
was much diminished before the completion of the experiments;
but even at the last, when the wires of the apparatus were
applied to the galvanometer without the intervention of the
vein, and the extensive circuit and comparatively imperfect
contacts which it involved, a violent agitation and rapid rota
tion of the needle were produced.

   These experiments afford strong evidence of the energy of
the electricity of the vein; and this method may become useful
to the practical miner, in helping him to appreciate the value of
his discoveries, and enabling him to ascertain whether the ores
in distant parts of a vein are connected or insulated, or whether
what appear to be parallel veins are really so, or ramifications
57t  FOURTH REPORT -- 1834.

of the same vein. Galena, and copper, and iron pyrites are the
only substances usually met with in the Cornish mines which are
capable of conducting voltaic electricity ; and as iron pyrites is
much more generally found in insulated masses than the other
two, the test here suggested may be employed with a consi
deIrtabwleasdeingrHeeueol fJecownefild, eanncde
                                                 on many occasions.    ago,  that  the
                                                 more than four years
author first obtained electro-magnetic results. The workings
have been so much extended since, that the last experiments
were made 60 fathoms deeper, and at least 80 fathoms further
towards the east, than the first ; and it is satisfactory to find
that the direction of the electricity remains unchanged, viz.
positive from the east. The temperature at the bottom level
of the mine, 38 fathoms under the surface, was then 59°, and it is
now, at the depth of 108 fathoms, 70°. The author has observed
that when the sulphuret of copper or of lead is heated, or even
slightly warmed, it becomes positively electrical, and yet the
deepest parts of the veins of those ores, although warmer than
nearer the surface, appear generally to be negative.

Notice respecting DaarveimdarBkraebwlestSepre,cimFe.Rn .So.f Amber. By Sir

   This specimen of amber was brought from India by Mr.
Swinton, and was found in the kingdom of Ava. Its size is
nearly equal to that of a child's head, and its general aspect and
physical properties, seem to differ considerably from the ordi
nary specimens of amber. The remarkable fact, however, which
distinguishes it from all specimens of amber which the author
has seen or read of, is that it is intersected in various directions
by thin veins of a crystallized mineral substance. These veins,
which cross one another, are sometimes as thin as a sheet of
paper, and in other places about the twentieth of an inch thick.
In order to determine the nature of the mineral, he extracted
a portion of the thickest vein; and having obtained, by cleavage,
a small rhomb, succeeded in measuring the inclination of its
planes, and found it to be a carbonate of lime. The specimen,
however, did not enable him to ascertain whether the angle was
that of the pure carbonate of lime, or that of carbonate of

lime and magnesia.

   At the next meeting of the Association, the author hoped to
be able to bring forward a detailed account of this curious

specimen, and to exhibit it to the Section ; but he considered
the single fact which he had now mentioned as calculated to
throw so much light on the origin of amber, that he trusted it
TRANSACTIONS OF TUB SECTIONS-  575

would induce those who are in possession of specimens to ex
amine them with attention, and especially in reference to empty
or filled cavities, and to veins or portions of foreign matter
which may exist in the mass.

ReImfatmiroknisneoorfnalMsthineweevrraaelul eaSlpol effcoOirempst.eicdaBlfyrCohmSairrascoDtlueatrvisoidninsBthcreeonwdtaissitcnerinirm.gintahe

same ingredients, having the same temperature, and crystallizing
in perfect tranquillity, the differences recognised by the chemist,
the crystallographer, and the optical observer would have no
existence ; but as this hypothetical state of the mineral, when
in astate of fluidity or solution, is inadmissible, we must consider
minerals as having been formed under the influence of many

disturbing causes. In order to illustrate this remark, the author
takes the case of chabasie, which he regards as a congeries of

several substances, formed in succession round a central rhomb
of the same mineral in a perfect state. The central rhomb has
a certain degree of double refraction, which is equal in all
parallel directions; but there is another rhomb formed round
it which has a less double refraction, and each successive
rhomb has its double refraction successively diminishing till it
disappears altogether, at which period the form of the crystal
would be a cube. Beyond this neutral line an opposite kind
of double refraction appears, corresponding to a new series of
rhombs, deviating more and more from the cubical structure.

    Now it is very obvious that these changes may have, or rather
must have, taken place, either from some agitation in the fluid
which prevented its particles from assuming the perfect type
of the mineral, or from the addition or abstraction of some of

Ifthe ingredients of which the central rhomb was composed.

         a crystallographer, therefore, were to examine such a
mineral, he would report to us only the condition of the outer
rhomb, while the chemist would detail to us the elements which
form the whole compound mass. The optical observer, how
 ever, is alone admitted into the secret, and his results are in
 fallible. The changes which take place in the optical characters
 of minerals by heat, do not in the least affect their value, any
 more than similar changes affect the ordinary characters which
 are employed by mineralogists. The specific gravity of bodies
 varies also with heat, and probably the hardness also of the
 softer minerals ; and it is well known that changes of tempera
 ture not very great may drive off the more valuable ingredients
 of minerals, and thus prevent the chemist from obtaining their
 actual composition.
576 FOURTH REPORT -- 1834.

Experiments on  the effects of  loBnyg-cthoentRineuve.dWHiellaiat mon  Mineral
   and Organic                                                         Vernon
                Substances.
Harcourt, F.R.S.

   Mr. Harcourt gave an account of the experiments on this sub
ject, which the kindness of the proprietors of the Low Moor
and Elsecar iron works in Yorkshire, had enabled him to in
stitute.

   The blast furnaces at Low Moor are sometimes regularly
worked for twelve years or more; but the average time for
which they continue in action, is from six to seven years. The
furnace at Elsecar is usually blown out at the end of three
years. During these periods of time the fusion of the iron
stone never ceases in the hearths ; the bottom stone of the fur
nace may be considered as constantly kept at the temperature
of melting iron, and the hearth-walls in some parts at a still
higher heat. When the furnace is blown out, the cooling of so
great a mass of masonry is extremely slow.

   The bottom stone, which is about 16 inches thick, is worn
away and excavated by degrees, sometimes to more than half
its depth, by the action of the iron, so that a pool of metal lies
in the hollow, below the level at which the iron is from time to
time run off ; this stone is cracked in various directions by the
heat to which it is subjected, and the cracks are filled with
veins of melted metal, which occasionally penetrate into the
sand on which the stone is laid, and fuse it.

   It is in the metal thus detained within the bottom stone that

the segregation of metallic titanium takes place, disseminated
in general irregularly through the mass of iron, but where acci
dental vacuities have admitted of its crystallization, forming
clusters of cubes.

   On examining with attention the bottom stones of furnaces
which had been worked out, Mr. Harcourt observed in them
several other species of crystals, some of which appeared to be
owing simply to the mutual reaction of the ingredients of

the stone itself. The stone is a felspathic grit, and if this ma

terial alone is capable, under these circumstances, of supplying
instances of chemical and crystalline rearrangement, it seemed
not unreasonable to expect, that by multiplying the means of
such rearrangements scope might be afforded for the ap
pearance of numerous interesting phaenomena of a similar de
scription.

   Forthis purpose,and toforward an undertaking sanctioned by
the Association, the Yorkshire Philosophical Society, with great
liberality, furnished a supply of materials from its museum, and
                                                                                                                                                TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.  577

it                                                                                                                                              with the assistance of Professor Phillips, Mr. Harcourt selected a
                                                                                                                                                variety of specimens of rocks and minerals from its collection,
     is                                                                                                                                         which were arranged, some in mass and some in powder, in a
                                  a                                                                                                             strong deal box, the capacity of which was five cubic feet. Some
                                                                                                                                                synthetical compositions of minerals were added, and oppor
                                                         ;                                                                                      tunities contrived for the formation of others, by placing differ
                                                             ;                                                                                  ent substances in contact, and making provision for the passage
                                                                                                                                                of volatile bodies through materials with which they enter into
                                             it,                                                                                                union. Metallic substances were introduced at different points,
                                                                                                                                                and among different materials, both to serve as measures of
                                                             2                                                                                  heat, and to furnish illustrations of the phaenomena of veins.
                                                                 p                                                                              A second box of equal dimensions was chiefly devoted to the
                                                                                                                                                purpose of placing organized substances, recent and fossil,
                                                                                                  :                                             animal and vegetable, under a variety of conditions with re
                                                                                                                                                spect to the materials in which they were imbedded.
                                                                                                         a
                                                                                                                                            ;; ;   The boxes were conveyed to the foundries of Messrs. Hird
                                                                                                                                                and Dawson, at Low Moor, on the 17th of July 1833. They
                                                                                                                                                were placed immediately under the bottom stone of the furnace

                                                                                                                                                in the sand which supports and built round with fire-brick
                                                                                                                                                larger pieces of various rocks, metals, &c. were placed by their
                                                                                                                                                side, and similarly inclosed by walls of fire-brick.

                                                                                                                                                   The defect most to be apprehended in this arrangement is,
                                                                                                                                                that the heat in the position above described may not suffice
                                                                                                                                                to produce the fusion or semi-fusion of the rocks and minerals

                                                                                                                                                      presumed, however, that the cracks of the hearth-stone
                                                                                                                                                and the shrinking of the materials will admit such an influx
                                                                                                                                                among them of the melted metal as will secure this object
                                                                                                                                                but lest such should not be the case, Mr. Harcourt was
                                                                                                                                                anxious to effect repetition of the experiments in position
                                                                                                                                                nearer to the source of heat. An opportunity of accomplishing
                                                                                                                                                this was afforded by Earl Fitzwilliam at his foundry at Elsecar,
                                                                                                                                                near Wentworth House. Here, under the direction of the
                                                                                                                                                Superintendant, Mr. Hartop, holes were worked in the bottom
                                                                                                                                                stone itself, and in the back wall of the hearth, to contain the
                                                                                                                                                subjects of experiment the number of holes was twenty-three,
                                                                                                                                                those in the bottom stone being about a foot in diameter and in
                                                                                                                                                depth, whilst those in the back wall were two feet in depth and
                                                                                                                                                six inches in diameter, worked obliquely downwards. In some
                                                                                                                                                of these were placed crucibles of six inches in diameter, and
                                                                                                                                                eight inches in height in others similar cylinders of granite and
                                                                                                                                                limestone, hollowed out, and containing various materials, the
                                                                                                                                                spaces round, and the interstices within, being filled with
                                                                                                                                                powders of different kinds of rocks in the rest the minerals
                                                                                                                                                and organized substances were imbedded in powders of the
                                                                                                                                                same kind, without any other receptacle than the stone itself.

                                                                                                                                                    1834.
   578 FOURTH REPORT-- 1834.

   The orifices of the holes were filled to the depth of three or four
   inches by stoppers made of the gritstone of which the furnace
   was built.

      The danger in this disposition of the materials is, that
   a portion of them may be obliterated by the intensity of
   the heat and the wear of the furnace; but there is reason to
   expect that enough will remain to show what light is likely to
   be derived from such experiments, and in what manner they
   may hereafter be most advantageously conducted. . 

      The experiments themselves are nearly similar to those which
   have been before described, the chief difference consisting in a
   more liberal introduction of crystals, especially of that class
   which includes water as a constituent part. As examples of the
   intention with which these were added, it may suffice to notice

   the selection of natrolite, a mineral which, if the water it con

   tains were expelled, might be expected to pass into sommite ;
   and of apophyllite, which in the same case might perhaps re
   solve itself into tabular spar and quartz.

      The time at which the Elsecar furnace commenced working,
   was in October 1833 ; it is probable, therefore, that an exami
   nation of the hearth may become practicable before the end
   of 1836.

     Dr. Clark gave an account and an explanation of the suc
   cessful application of the Hot Blast to the production of Cast

   Iron.
   In the Clyde iron-works, near Glasgow, during the first six
   \\months of the year 1829, every ton of cast iron required for
   its production 8 tons   cwt. of splint coal, reduced to coke, at
   a loss of 55 per cent.
      During the first six months of the year 1830, after the appli
   cation of Mr. Neilson's invention, when the air had been heated
   to about 300° Fahr., every ton of cast
   cwt. of splint coal, converted into coke.  iron required 5  tons 3^
                                               Adding 8 cwt.
                                                               of coal
   consumed in heating the air, the saving effected was 2± tons of
   splint coal on every ton of cast iron produced. And the same
   blast was found to be capable of making much more iron, the
   diminished requisite of air being pretty nearly proportioned to
   the diminished fuel required.
   But during the first six months of the year 1833, when the
   temperature of the blast had been raised to above 600°, and
   when the process of coking the coal had been discovered to be
   superfluous, and was accordingly omitted, a single ton of cast
   iron was produced by only 2 tons 5^ cwt. of splint coal. Even
   when we add 8 cwt. of coal to heat the air, the quantity of

\
                      TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                                 579

splint coal required in 1833, to make a ton of cast iron, was
only one third of what was used in 1829. The blast machinery
continued the same, but the same blast made twice as much
iron as in 1829.
The same coal produced thrice as much cast iron ; the same
blast twice as much.
The iron-furnaces alluded to are worked 23 hours out of
the 24; a half-hour every evening, and another every morning,
being occupied with letting off the iron produced.
During every working-hour, the solid materials which feed
the furnace at the top amount to 2 tons almost exactly, while
the air forced in at the bottom, in the same time, amounts to
the surprising quantity of 6 tons.
Since a smelting-furnace must have a certain elevated tem
perature, in order to work                 it  faavirouarnabhloyu, r,w--he2ncwwt.e   consider
                                of 6 tons  of                                       a minute,
--thesucpopolliiendg   effect  bottom of
                      at the               the furnace, and entering near the

hottest part, it is easy to account for the increased energy of
the furnace when this prodigious refrigeratory is removed, by
heating the air before it passes into the furnace.

On hydrated Salts and metallic Peroxides ; with Observations

    on the doctrine of Isomerism. By Professor Graham.

    Various classes of salts, besides the arseniates and phos
phates, contain water, which is essential to their constitution : of
this the sulphates of magnesia, and the protoxides of zinc,
manganese, iron, nickel, copper, and cobalt, are examples.

    These salts crystallize from their aqueous solutions, either
with seven or five atoms of water, one of which is in a state of
much more intimate union than the other six or four. Thus,
crystallized sulphate of zinc loses six atoms of water, at a tem
perature not exceeding 65°, when placed over sulphuric acid
in vacuo, but retains one atom of water at 410° and all inferior
temperatures. This salt may be viewed as a sulphate of oxide
of zinc and water, with six atoms of water of crystallization; a

constitution which may be expressed as follows, HZnS+6H.

This sulphate may be made anhydrous, but when moistened
always regains one atom of water, slaking with the evolution
of heat. This last atom of water appears to discharge a basic
function in the constitution of the salt, and affords a clue to the
disposition of this sulphate to form double sulphates. Sulphate
of zinc combines with sulphate of potash, and forms a well-
known double salt, in which the basic water of the sulphate of

                                                          2p2
580 FOURTH REPORT -- 1834.

zinc, is replaced by sulphate of potash, without any further

change. The formula of the double sulphate is (K S) Z n S 6 + H.
In the double salt, the whole six atoms of water are retained
with somewhat greater force than in the simple sulphate ; but
even the double sulphate becomes anhydrous below 212° in

vacuo.

The sulphates of the other metallic oxides mentioned are
quite analogous to sulphate of zinc in their habitudes with
water, although the particular temperature at which they part
with their water of crystallization is different in each. The
anaOlofghyydhrooludss  also in the double sulphates of those oxides.
                       sulphate of lime, or gypsum, the two atoms     of

water which it contains appear to be essential, and are retained

at 212°. At a temperature not exceeding 270°, this salt becomes
anhydrous, but retains the power of recombining with two
atoms of water, or setting. The salt is then in a peculiar con
dition. It is the debris of the hydrate, and not a neat chemical
compound. Heated above 300° the salt becomes properly
sulphate of lime, and has lost the disposition to combine with
water.
The protochlorides, and corresponding cyanides of zinc, man
ganese, iron, &c., are disposed to combine with two atoms of
water. Hence the cyanide of iron combines with two atoms
of cyanide of potassium, to form the double cyanide of iron and
potassium, commonly called the ferroprussiate of potash.

   Berzelius found the peroxide of tin formed by the action of
nitric acid on metallic tin, to differ in certain properties from
the same compound precipitated from a persalt of tin by an
alkali, and distinguished the first under the name of the nitric
acid peroxide of tin. Both peroxides combine with muriatic
acid, but the muriate of the nitric acid peroxide is peculiar in
Ibeing insoluble in water strongly acidulated with muriatic acid.

But the precipitated peroxide of tin assumes, find, all the
properties of the other modification, when kept for some time
exposed to the heat of boiling water, or even when strongly
dried over sulphuric acid in vacuo, at the ordinary temperature
of the atmosphere. The two modifications are merely differ
ent hydrates of the peroxide of tin, but it is difficult to ascer
tain what proportion of water is essential to each. The hy
drates, combine with acids, and form two sets of compounds ;
but absolute peroxide of tin itself (which is obtained by heat
ing the hydrated peroxide to redness,) has no disposition to
combine with acids. The same is true of many other metallic
peroxides; they combine as hydrates only with acids. There
             TRANSACTIONS OF THE SUCTIONS.                                   581

are at least two hydrates of peroxide of iron : the muriate of
that which contains least water is red in solution, and the muri
ate of the other, yellow; but these muriates pass readily into
each other. Mr. R. Phillips observed of the red muriate,
that it is precipitated by an access of acid, which, it may be re
marked, establishes an analogy between it and the muriate of
the nitric acid peroxide of tin, which possesses the same pro

perty.
   Metallic peroxides can in general be obtained by the appli
cation of a moderate heat to their hydrates, in a state in which
they are the debris of hydrates, and not neat chemical com
pounds. Upon heating peroxides in this condition to redness,
they generally glow or become spontaneously incandescent at a
                                                                             which the attention
opaf rctihceumlaisrtstemhapserbaeteunre,pa(artipchualaenrloymedniroenctetod  by Berzelius,) and
lose their solubility in acids at the same time. Till they have
undergone this change, they are not absolute or proper perox
ides. Various salts, such as phosphates, antimoniates, &c.,
exhibit the same phaenomenon when heated ; but they all had
possessed water, which is essential to their first constitution,
but not to their second.
The doctrine of isomerism, or that two bodies may exist of
the same composition, but differing in properties, has been pro
posed by Berzelius as a sequence from such facts as the pre
              But the propriety of the inference                              may be doubted.
ceding.  if  not all cases of apparent isomerism                             may be explained
Most,

by reference to one or other of the following facts :
1. Water is essential to the constitution of many bodies.
Thus, what have been called metaphosphoric acid, pyrophos-
phoric acid, and common phosphoric acid, are three different
phosphates of water, or compounds of one absolute phosphoric
acid with three different proportions of water.

  2. A particular condition of bodies must be recognised, in
which they are the debris of some compound, and not proper
chemical compounds of their constituents. Thus, on heating
a certain borate of water and magnesia to redness, water only
is expelled ; but what remains is not a simple borate of magnesia,
but a mixture of boracic acid and magnesia, from which the
former may be dissolved out by water. Stucco in a state for
setting is in this particular condition. But this is a depart
ment of corpuscular philosophy which stands much in want of
further development.
3. The proximate constitution of many bodies may be widely
different, of which the ultimate composition is the same. Thus
the cyanic acid of Wbhler is undoubtedly an oxide of cyanogen,
but we have no evidence that cyanogen exists in fulminic acid,
582 FOURTH REPORT -- 1834.

which consists of the same proportions of carbon, nitrogen,
and oxygen as cyanic acid. It is wrong, therefore, to speak
of the fulininic as a second cyanic acid, and useless to couple
them together as isomeric bodies. Tartaric and racemic acids
are of the same ultimate composition, but they certainly con
tain different radicals, and probably have as little natural rela
tion to each other as any two vegetable acids which could be
named. Why, then, associate them as isomeric bodies, and call
them the tartaric and paratartaric acids?

   4. A minute trace of adventitious matter may sometimes affect

the properties of a chemical body to a surprising degree.
   Professor Rose, of Berlin, has shown that the two kinds of

phosphuretted hydrogen, one of which is spontaneously inflam
mable in air, and the other not so, are of the same composition
and specific gravity. To account for their possessing different
properties, recourse is had to the doctrine of isomerism. But
my observations indicate the existence of a peculiar principle
in the spontaneously inflammable species, which principle may
be withdrawn, and leaves the gas not spontaneously inflamma
ble. Phosphuretted hydrogen gas, which is not spontaneously
inflammable in air, may be made so, by the addition to it of one
ten-thousandth part of its volume of nitrous acid vapour. There
are grounds for supposing that the peculiar principle of the
ordinary gas is a volatile oxide of phosphorus analogous to
nitrous acid, and that it is present in a minute, almost infinite
simal, proportion. Subsequently to the meeting of the Associa
tion, an account of the author's researches on phosphuretted
hydrogen has been published in the number for Dec. 1834, of
the London and Edinburgh Journal of Science.

OnMofs. otAmheret.nMeSewotcroC.,phoEelnmisg.iicnaeleBrpyrotodGutechteosrgCoehbatratLeionrweedde,  in the Gas-works  ,

                                                                                                   F.G.S., M.R.I.

                                                                                                  Gas Company.

   Mr. Lowe stated that in consequence of the recommendations
adopted at the last meeting of the Association, he was induced
to lay before the Section some specimens of the products of
heat, obtained at the Metropolitan Gas-works. He exhibited a
fine specimen of artificial pyrites, containing cubical and octa

hedral crystals.
   These are produced by a long-continued action of fire, at a

dull red heat, and are deposited on the aluminous interior coat
ing of the cast iron pots, in which muriate of ammonia is sub
limed into the sal ammoniac cakes of commerce.

   The rough muriate contains also some sulphate of ammonia,
and the clay soon becomes saturated with muriate of iron.
          TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.            583

Mr. Lowe conceived that this artificial mode of producing
the bisulphuret of iron, in crystals, would be an interesting
fact to the geologist, as affording some confirmation of the
igneous origin of trap rocks, in reference especially to the
observation made by Professor Sedgwick and Mr. Murchison,
that rocks of an aluminous nature are often found at the point
of contact with basaltic matter, to be not only indurated, but
to contain crystals of pyrites.
                                                   .,
He also showed upon a portion of a worn-out cast iron
retort numerous octahedral crystals of protoxide of iron,
the effect of long-continued heat. Good specimens of these
crystals are very rare, now that only the best iron, and
that of the second melting, is used in the gas-works to which

Mr. Lowe is attached. A wrought iron bolt, which had been
for many hours acted upon by steam, at a bright red heat,

presented a crystallized surface.

   Mr. Lowe likewise laid before the Section specimens of pure
Prussian blue, and of blue and green pigment, obtained from
the refuse lime-water of gas-works.
This refuse was for many years allowed to run to waste into
the river Thames ; of late it has been evaporated under
the bars of the furnaces, and passed, partly decomposed, up the
chimney. It may now be rendered available for a more useful

purpose.

OHnetnhrey qHuaonutgithy  of Carbonic Acid in the  Atmosphere. By
                          Watson. Communicated     by Dr. Dalton.

   At the commencement of his undertaking, the author con
fined his experiments principally to the quantity of carbonic
acid in the atmosphere of the town of Bolton ; and then, to

arrive at the difference in quality between an atmosphere in
its natural purity and one like that of Bolton, which we know
to be artificially impregnated, he fixed upon Horrocks Moor,
a situation three miles north-west of the town of Bolton, and
elevated, as he had found by barometrical observation, about
584 feet above it ; and made the remainder of his experiments
upon air received at this place, except that thrice during the
course of his investigation he operated upon air received on

the top of Winter Hill.
   Winter Hill is situate from five to six miles north-west of

Bolton, and about a mile north-east of the well-known Rivington
Pike ; its height above Bolton is about 1211 feet.

   The author gives his first experiment as an example of his

method of analysis. A bottle capable of holding lSS'iOO grains of
584  FOURTH REPORT 1884.

water was filled with air, by repeated blasts of a pair of hand
bellows, and into it were poured 480 gr. measures of lime-water
such as requires 460 gr. measures of test sulphuric acid, for neu
tralization, the test acid being such that sulphuric acid of specific

gravity 1*135 constitutes j^th part of it: 520 gr. measures of

pure water were added. The mouth of the bottle was secured ;
and the liquor, after being frequently and well agitated, (which
was done inmost instances daily for a week or more,) was passed
through a paper filter with the washings of the bottle ; it was
then found to be neutralized with only 270 gr. measures of
the -j-^3 test acid ; this being 190 gr. measures less than it
would have required previously to being put into the bottle.

   Now if 100 gr. measures of sulphuric acid, sp. gr. 1*135, is

equal to 174 grains by weight of real dry sulphuric acid, 190 gr.
measures of the Ti5 test acid is equal to 0*3325 of a grain by
weight of real sulphuric acid. And taking the atomic weight of
sulphuric acid at 35, and that of carbonic acid at 19*4, the
0*3325 of a grain of sulphuric acid is equal to 0*1843 of a grain
by weight of carbonic acid, or 0*3921 of a cubic inch.

   And deducting 1000, the bulk of the liquor put into the bot
tle, from 188400, the total capacity of the bottle, we have 187400,
the number of water grain measures of air operated upon,
 = 742*3 cubic inches.

   Then 742*3 : 0*3921 : : 10,000 : 5*282.
   Therefore, in this instance, 10,000 volumes of air contained
5*282 volumes of carbonic acid.
             The following                 isa    list of the Experiments             made    on Air  from                  the town   of Bolton.

             Time when the air was received.           Whetheraa  fair or rainy day on which the      Number of fair or wet             Temperature  Number of volumes
                                                                   air was received.                   days previous to that           when the air   of carbonic acid
                                                                                                                                       su received.   in 10,000volumes
                                                                                                         on which the air
                                                                                                            was received.                                   or the air.

1832.  Sept. 28th, ati iJ Jt1 2 { 9past5p.m.                                  fair.                   81 46812435211921511fair  days.                5-282               i> >-i
1833.                                                                                                                     fair  day.                 5-282
       Oct. 5th, at    p.m.                                                   rainy.                                      wet   days.  53°           5-282                  O
                                                                                                                          wet   days.  60            4-448
       Oct. 11th, at 10 a.m. to        3*   p.m.                              rainy.                                      wet   days.  57            5-282                  ·vj
                                                                                                                          fair  day.   38            5-559                  H
       Oct. 13th, at noon.                                                    rainy.                                      fair  days.  36            5-000                  H
                                                                                                                          wet   days.                8-620                  ·>
       Dec. 31st, at noon.                                                     rainy.                                     fair  days.  38            5-000               o o
                                                                              rain at night.                              fair  days.  75            4196                   Wn
       Feb. 22nd, at 10 at night.                               little                                                    wet   days.  74            5-559
                                                                              snow.                                       fair  day.   54            4-739                  ·s.
       March 9th, at                 3 p.m.                                                                               wet   day.   60 ·          6-393
                                                                                                                          fair  days.  51            5-838
                          past     G                                                                                      wet   days.  60            4-196
                                   in the morning.                            fair a.m.                                   fair  day.   56            4196
       April 30, at    past                                                                                               wet   days.  51            5-000
                                                                                                                          fair  day.   57            6-393
       May 7th, at noon.                                                      fair.                                       wet   day.   58            4-448
                                                                                                                                       46
       May   9th, at p.m.                              fair till after the air was received.                                                         5-300               X
       May                                                                            fair.
       May   11th, at 12 at night.
       May                         6
             15th, at  past in the           morning.                         rainy.
                                                                              fair.
             18th, at 12 at night.
                                                                              fair.
       May   29th, at noon.                                                                                                                                              s-i
       June  4th, at at night.                                                rainy.
                                                                              rainy.
       June  11th, at 10 at night.                                            rainy.
       July                        18                                         rainy.
             23rd, at  past          p.m.                                     rainy.

       Sept. 24th, at past           at night.
       Dec. 14th, at noon.

                                                                                              Mean of the above 19 experiments

                                            In this and the first experiment  the temperature         was not observed.                                                  ss

                                                                                                                                
                     The following            is  a        list of the Experiments                         made         on Air  from      the Country.                                  Si c 9 -i X ft o 3

                                                                          Whether fair Number of fair or wet                Temperature                             Number of volumes
Place where the air                                                        or rainy day on   22132649 712previous to that     when the    Direction from which the   of carbonic acid
     was received.   Time when the air was received.                      which the air was  days        which the air          air was       wind blew when the      in loooo volumes
                                                                                   a           on                              received.         air was received.
                                                                                                         was received.                                                     of the air.
                                                                          received.

Horrock's     Moor.  1833.  Aug.   1st, at i3 i3 3 3 2 |1past at night.72  fair.                               fair days.       61° north.                                 3-890
                     1834.  Aug.   8th, at      p.m.                       fair.                               fair days.       55 west.                                   4-448
Winter Hill.                                                               fair.                               fair day.        65 east.                                   4-739
                                                                                                               wet days.        62 north.                                  3-890
Horrock's     Moor.         Sept.  6th, at     past           p.m.        rainy.                               fair days.                                                  4196
                            Sept.  14th, at      r.M.                      fair.                               wet days.        60 north-north-west.                       4-448
Ditto.                                                                                                         wet days.        52 south-south- west.                      3-614                          c
                                                                          rainy.                                wet days.       46 west, and very strong.                  3-614
Ditto.                      Oct. 2nd, at r.M.                             rainy.                         12 wet days.           40 west, and very strong.                  4-196                          S3
                                                                          rainy.                               wet da vs.       34 north-north-west.                       4-196
Ditto.                      Oct. 24th, at      p.m.                        fair.                                                34 north.                                  4-196*                         T
                                                                           fair.                               fair day.                                                   4-196
Ditto.                      Nov. 6th, at      p.m.                                                             wet days.        41 south-east.                                                            -
                                                                          rainy.                                                40 west.                                  4-135
Ditto.                      Dec. 6th, at      past       2 222p.m.         fair.                                                                                                                          GO
                                                                                                                                                                                                          lb.
Winter Hill.                Dec. 25th, at p.m.

Horrock's     Moor.         Jan.   2nd, at  fJ4past           p.m.
                            Jan.   30th, at     past          p.m.
Ditto.                      Feh.    11th, at    past           p.m.

Winter Hill.

                                   When the wind blew from the west and north-west,                                     it was from the seaward.

The author's experiments    on country air, from which only can uniform results be expected, differ                                       very little from those of De Saussure,
who found the mean of 100 experiments           to be 4-15.
in his experiments                          the seasons,              He   does not,   however, agree            with De Saussure         in attributing  the variations  observable
                                                                    and   the dryness    or wetness of           the weather, (with
                     to the variations  of                                                                                                which the Table shows that they do not

accord,) but rather to the unavoidable      errors of experiment.

                                                                This air was received during               a     dense fog.
       TRANSACTIONS OF THK SECTIONS.            587

OnAtnhteimCohneym. icBayl JC.oFm. pWos.itJioohnnosfttohne ,cFry.sRta.Slli.zEed. F.OGx.iSc.h,loRreidaedeorf
in Chemistry and Mineralogy in the University of Durham.

When a solution of oxide of antimony in muriatic acid is

diluted with water, a white powder is precipitated, which has

Ifbeen long known under the name of the powder of algaroth.

    the diluted solution be set aside, the precipitate assumes the
crystalline form, presenting the appearance either of a fine
sand with little lustre, of long transparent slightly yellowish
needles radiating from a centre, or of a congeries of micro
scopic right oblique prisms having the acute terminal angle
about 84° 40'. These crystals are slightly yellowish, transpa
rent, having occasionally a high degree of lustre, give off no
water when heated, but at an elevated temperature decrepitate
and emit fumes of chloride of antimony. Heated with dry, or
boiled with a solution of, carbonate of soda, they are decom
posed, and oxide of antimony remains. Nitric acid also decom
poses them by the aid of heat, leaving antimonic acid.

   Several analyses of this substance have been published, but in
none of them, the author believes, was the compound employed in
a crystallized state ; and as it is partially decomposed by washing
with water, it is obvious, that unless in this state the true con
stitution of the compound cannot be obtained by analysis. In
four experiments, crystals prepared at different times gave the
author 11-32, 11-26, 11-22, 11-215 per cent, of chlorine re

spectively. Of these the highest is preferred, for the reason

above stated. In six experiments, by three different methods,
Mr. Johnston obtained: 1st, 76-82; 2nd, 75-93,76-506,75-98;

3rd, 76-6, per cent, of metallic antimony. Of these he prefers the

last. The compound, therefore, consists of
                                  Chlorine, 11*32= 2-55 atoms.
                                  Antimony, 76-6 = 9-498

                      Loss, Oxygen, 12-08=12-08

                                                             Atoms.

or the (Cl + 0) : Sb : : 14-247 : 9-498 : : 3 : 2 nearly. It consists,
therefore, of oxide combined with chloride of antimony, and
they are in the proportion of one atom of chloride to 4£ of oxide,

orof2:9. This gives the formula 2 (3 CI + 2 SI) + 9 SI. The

results of calculation compared with experiment are as follow :

       f CI 6-63     Calculation.  Experiment.

                       11-49        11-32

36-29  I O 6-75       11-79          1208
                     100-          100-
              57-74
588 FOURTH REPORT-- 1834.
   The chlorine and antimony found by experiment are, as was

to be expected, a little less than is indicated by theory, causing
the amount of oxygen to appear greater than it ought to be.*

On the phcenoBmyenCa haanrdlepsroJd.ucBt.s Woiflalialomwsf,orMm.Do.f Combustion.

   It must have been often observed, that after a candle is ex
tinguished in a dark room, if no spark be left on the surface,
the wick continues to be, for a few instants, faintly luminous.
This phenomenon attracted the author's attention many years
ago, and on investigating the matter further, he found that
wax, tallow, oil, resin, sealing-wax, and many other compound
inflammables, are luminous in the dark, when heated to a point

considerably below redness. A bar or mass of iron, heated to
incandescence, and then allowed to cool till it ceases to give
out light in a dark place, affords the most convenient means of
Ifexposing substances to the degree of heat required for this
phenomenon.        small portions of wax or tallow be thrown on
this iron, they give out a pale bluish light, which, if the heat
approaches to incandescence, assumes the form of a lambent
flame. Various animal and vegetable oils, resins, lac, caout
chouc, cotton, hemp, linen, paper, flour, starch, gum, silk,
cloth, leather, hair, feathers, and almost all compound com
bustibles, exhibit, in various degrees, the same phenomenon.

Sugar does so very slightly. Camphor and other volatile matters,
and defiant gas, may be made to show the light by bringing
the vapour or gas  into contact  with a hot   iron held over them.
                   of the most   material of   these facts was pub
A short statement
lished in the Annals of Philosophy for July            The author
has lately found that some of them were        1823.
                                              noticed   by Mr. T.
               ttohebePh"ils.omTerankisnadctioofnisnflfaomr m1a7t9i8o,n."and
Wedgwood, in                                                                    were by
him suspected                                                                 The lumi
nous appearance has generally, however, been considered to be
of the nature of simple phosphorescence, like that of fluor
spar and other minerals when heated.          These substances
give out light independently of access of air, and under water
or oil ; and the cause of this singular property, to which the
term phosphorescence has been applied, is wholly unknown.
On comparing this phenomenon, however, with that of heated
inflammables, the author saw enough difference to induce the
belief that they are not similar, but that the latter is owing to
a kind of low combustion.

   · For a fuller account of these experiments sec Edinburgh Journal of
Science, January 1835.
TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                               589

To bring this matter to the test of experiment, he tried
whether the light would continue to appear when the bodies in
question are heated without the contact of air. Wax, tallow,
and other inflammable matters were heated in different close

tubes in the dark ; they were observed to give out no light
until they were opened, when it appeared as usual. On closing

them again, if the heat was kept up, the light gradually disap
pAearorelld,ofbpuat pwears,  restored on                    the tubes to the air.
                             heated in a  again  opening    part was charred,
                                          close  tube till
gave out no light, but a piece of paper applied externally to the
heated tube became immediately luminous. Some tallow heated
in a ladle till it became luminous, lost its light on being plunged
into carbonic acid gas.

   It having thus been proved that the absence of oxygen pre
vented the appearance of the light, it was natural to expect
that a free supply of this element would increase it. Some wax
was heated in a ladle till it became luminous in the dark, and

on being plunged into oxygen gas it became brighter, and if
the heating had been considerable, although there was no
spark, it burst out into an open flame. Wax, lac, cocoa oil,
tallow, sperm oil, sulphur, and some other things could be
kindled into open combustion in this way ; but with paper,
most vegetable oils, silk, &c. the pale light was only brightened
by contact of oxygen.
The author considers therefore, proved that the light ob
it
                                        ; it,

                                                                                 is
                                                                                          is
                                                                                         is a
served was not phosphorescence, but depended on chemical
action between the air and the subject of the experiment; that
   was, in short, a form of combustion. The bodies which give
out most light are wax, animal oils, hair, silk, wool, fine white
paper, cotton fabrics, aether vapour, olefiant gas, and sulphur.
Some of these, as paper, tallow, and cocoa oil, begin to give
out light in a dark room below 300°. Wax requires tem
perature of at least 400° and this, the author remarks, the
reason why wax candles burn with little or no smell, whilst, in
those of tallow, portions near the wick are heated sufficiently
to undergo the imperfect combustion, which causes the odour
so disagreeable in an imperfectly extinguished candle. The
degree of heat necessary for low combustion may be estimated
by the fact, that as soon as oils or other compound inflamma
bles begin to give out vapours, they will be found to be lumi
nous in the dark. When, therefore, tallow or oil heated to
Ifebullition in contact with the air, the surface actually under
going combustion.            the heat be further increased, the pale
luminosity elevates itself into a lambent flame, which, under
circumstances favourable for the accumulation of heat, will
590 FOURTH REPORT -- 1834.

burst out into open ignition. It is to be remarked, how
ever, that this low combustion differs from ordinary inflamma
tion in its products, and that the transition from one to the
other is not gradual, but abrupt, and attended with a slight

explosion.
Several of the metals exhibit the phenomenon of low com
bustion. The action is limited in most cases by the speedy
formation of a coat of oxide on the surface of the metal ; but in
the case of arsenic, whose oxide is volatile, a pale flame sur
rounds it at any temperature capable of raising it into vapour,
and continues until the metal is consumed. The fresh filings
of zinc, iron, cobalt, antimony, tungsten, and copper, become
momentarily luminous when thrown on an iron heated below
redness. Potassium presents the phenomena of low combus

tion at ordinary temperatures ; in fact, the rapid tarnishing of
                 after it is cut or rubbed,    isbraigchcotemrpainf itehde
its surface,     a faint light, which becomes                               by the
                                                                            tempe
evolution of

rature is raised.
The light of this low combustion is worthy of notice, which
varies somewhat in different shades of pallid or bluish white.
It becomes a question, what constitutes this light ? That of ordi
nary flame is supposed to consist of minute particles of the com
bustible, or of its product, in a state of incandescence. Sir H.
Davy extended this supposition even to the low combustion of
phosphorus, attributing its feebleness of heat to the extreme
paucity and tenuity of the particles of phosphoric acid thus

raised to a white heat. The author conceives that if this were

the cause, there would be a red tinge occasionally present, as
the result of the cooling of these particles to the red degree of
heat. In most ordinary flames such a red tinge occurs, and is
particularly apparent in daylight, but the author has never
seen it in low combustion. The lowest luminous degree of
heat has commonly been stated to be red, that called by arti
sans cherry red being the first visible degree. If, however,
we examine the phaenomena of incandescence in a room other
wise perfectly dark, by watching a large piece of iron cool
from a red heat, we shall find that, before it ceases to be lumi
       it loses          its red light, and appears of a pale               or
nous,            wholly                                                     of
milky  white.     This,  although fainter, is precisely the colour
the lights of low combustion.
   The author then drew a brief comparison between the pro

ducts of low combustion, and those of fermentation and putri-
faction, in which he noticed a new process for the expeditious

manufacture of vinegar. In this case an infusion of malt, or
sweet-wort, is made to drop through a room full of faggots of
                   TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                                                                                  591

twigs, so as to be exposed freely to the air in their interstices ;
and what goes in at the top as cold-wort, comes out at the
bottom, in the course of an hour, hot vinegar.

AbWestxraialmclitainmaotfiotGhnereoDgfistohcreoyvp,erorMideu.sDct.ms, aoFdfe.Rdbe.ySst.DrEur.c.tivReeiDcihsetinllbaaticohn,.  in  his

                                                                                                                                  By

    Dr. Reichenbach, in the course of a series of experiments,
of great extent and accuracy, on this subject, has shown that
the products of destructive distillation are of a very complex
nature, and contain, besides a variety of principles previously
known, not less than six new principles, all of which are sus
ceptible of some practical application. These new principles
are:
         Paraffin. --This is a solid        body,  white,  without        taste                                                   or
     1.

smell, soluble in hot alcohol and aether, which deposit the
greater part on cooling, insoluble in water, fusible atlOO°Fahr.,
boiling at a very high temperature, and distilling unchanged.
It is not  aisctesduscoenptbibyletheofstmroanngyesutserefaugl eanptsp,licaantidonfsr.omItitsbuprenrs

manence

with     a bright  --ligThht isanids  without smoke. Sp. gr. 0"870.       boiling
    2.   Eupion.                      a very mobile and volatile liquid,
at about 1 12° Fahr., and distilling unchanged. It is equally
permanent with paraffin, and, like burns brilliantly withoutit,
           has an extremely fragrant smell. It  is 1 it
smoke.     It                                              is       more ex
                It                                            a is
pansible by heat than any known liquid, and                       the lightest
                          it
                                  is

                                         a
known liquid under ordinary pressure, having sp. gr. of
0-655. Its expansibility recommends for thermometers, and
    seems well adapted for burning, from the brightness and
it

pu3ri.tyKroefosthoete.lig--htThisprodulciqeusi.d, sp. gr. "037, transparent and
colourless, said   to combine a             Floawhrr.e, fraancdtivdeistwilisthunachhiagnhgeddis.per
sive power.        boils at 400°                           is

                                                                  It
                                                                        It
possesses a strong smell of smoke, and the antiseptic ingre
dient of tar, smoke, and pyroligneous acid. It sparingly

soluble in water, abundantly in alcohol and acetic acid. It
coagulates strongly the albumen of animal substances.
                                                                                                                                  has
been applied with success to the cure of toothache, acts as a
powerful styptic, and the active ingredient of tar, tar-water,
aqua binelli, and Dippel's oil.is is
                                            It  may be usefully employed

in the art of curing hams and other smoked meats.
    4. Pittakall. --This a solid body, resembling indigo, of a
splendid blue colour, passing on the polished surface into the
592 FOURTH RKPOHT -- 1834.

aspect of gold. It is not volatile when pure. It is easily fixed
     cloth, and                 permanent dye of remarkable beauty.
on  5. Picamar.  f--ormThs isa  is the bitter principle produced in

                                                                      de
structive distillation. It is an oily liquid, heavier than water,
                                                    500° Fahr. It is
boiling  at a temperature above                                       very perma
nent.                                               taste. From its   permanence
         It has an intensely bitter
        fiKxaitpyn, oimt iosr.w--ellTahdisapitseda    for greasing machinery.
and                                                 liquid, sp. gr. 0*977, boiling at 365°
    6.                                              property is its power of dissolving
Fahr. Its most important
caoutchouc. It forms the chief part of the coal naphtha em
ployed in the arts.
   Besides these new substances, Dr. Reichenbach has recog
nised acetic acid, pyroligneous and pyroacetic spirits, in the
products of destructive distillation. He considers, and appa
rently with good reason, the pyroligneous spirit as a mixture

of alcohol with pyroacetic spirit. The alcohol is formed by the
fermentation of sugar in the sap of the wood, and distils over
when heat is applied to the wood. Naphthaline is not, accord
ing to Dr. Reichenbach, a product of destructive distillation,
properly so called, but is always formed when any of the pro
ducts above mentioned are exposed, in the state of vapour, to a
red heat.
Dr. Reichenbach has also shown that the naphtha distilled
from the Italian and Persian petroleum, is not produced by
destructive distillation, but is oil of turpentine unaltered, the
origin of which he attributes to the pine-forests of which most

coal beds are composed. Some very fine naphtha, sent by

Mr. Swinton from the East Indies, was found by Dr. Christison
to have all the characters of oil of turpentine. Dr. Christison
supposed that this oil had been fraudulently substituted for the
naphtha, but Dr. Reichenbach has succeeded in obtaining a
similar oil from several species of coal, by distilling along with
water, in which case no destructive distillation could occur.
   One naphtha, however, from Rangoon, appears to be a pro
duct of destructive distillation. Dr. Christison discovered in
it paraffin, which he called petroline, Dr. Reichenbach's expe
riments not being at that time known in this country ; and
Dr. Gregory has lately proved in it the presence both of
eupion and kapnomor. There is reason to think, therefore,
that this naphtha, and perhaps some others, have been pro
duced at a high temperature.
              TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.         593

I-

    III. MATHEMATICAL INSTRUMENTS AND
                   MECHANICAL ARTS.

   On a new Sympiesometer. By Professor Forbes, F.R.S.
A barometer acting by measuring the volume of a confined

portion of air, first recommended by Dr. Hooke, has been re
cently constructed in a convenient form, under the name of the
Sympiesometer, by Mr. Adie of Edinburgh. The chief difficulty
found in operating with this instrument consists in ascertaining
the precise temperature of the inclosed air. This is proposed
to be accomplished by placing both the gaseous ball and that
of the attached thermometer in one common chamber, sur
rounded with mercury ; whilst the difference of temperature
which may exist between that mercury and the external air is
determined by means of a small differential thermometer.
The scale of the mercurial thermometer is read downwards, and
the volume of gas is indicated by a thermometric scale of its
expansions under a constant pressure of 30 inches.

On the construction of Achromatic Object-Glasses. By David

             Dick, Architect and Engineer, Edinburgh.

   Having several years ago attempted the construction of a
triple object-glass of 4 inches diameter, of which the interior

surfaces were cemented together, as recommended by the late
Professor Robison, Mr. Dick found that, when the surfaces

were found to coincide, it was rather difficult to separate them
without scratching, and therefore preferred to proportion the
radii of curvature so as to leave a small interval of the meniscus
form, which was filled up with the cementing substance. This
mode of construction suggested to him the possibility of em
ploying a cementing substance having such an action on the
green light,  in relation to that of the two sorts  odifmginlaisssh,edt,haitf
the colours   of the secondary spectrum might be

not entirely removed. By referring to the discoveries of
Sir David Brewster regarding the action of the different re
fracting media on green light, it was found that Canada bal
sam, oil of turpentine, and in a very high degree the oil of
cassia, were all possessed of the quality sought for, and the
author has in fact succeeded in the construction of object-
glasses of considerable size, which produce images almost, or
              2q
    1834.
594 FOURTH REPORT 1834.

perhaps quite, as free from colour as the images produced
from reflection.

   To prove the durability of a glass thus constructed, the
author mentions the fact of a four-inch object-glass, which was

put together three years ago with Canada balsam, and has been
exposed to heat, cold, and solar light, without injury. In order
to remove a doubt recently started on this subject, the glass
has been subjected to a heat of 140° for more than half an hour,
and immediately afterwards tried on the moon, when it ap
peared to have suffered no injury.

    Considerable care must be observed in putting in the cement.
   Tt should be poured upon the centre of the concave lens,
over which the centre of the convex lens being let down
should be brought into contact with the cement, so as to pre
vent the introduction of air bubbles ; the superfluous cement
is then to be gently pressed out, the pressure being applied at
the edges of the lenses. When this has been done, should
the lenses subsequently be shifted much, or turned round their
centres on each other, the distinctness of vision would almost
invariably be destroyed, and is not afterwards recovered.

On a new Klinometer and portable Surveying Instrument. By
                 John Dunn, Optician, Edinburgh.

                              [With a Plate.]

   Fig. 1.  represents this   instrument          drawn to half    its real
size. On    the brass plate                       there is traced  a semi
                              A B C D,
circle, divided into half-degrees, and within it a series of
rectangular coordinates, commencing                    the centre. Round
the centre of the semicircle, an arm,          E  at   moves, carrying the

                                                   F,
sights ef, and a spirit-level L, turning on two pivots ; and at
one corner of the plate is placed a small compass-box, d, re-
moveable at pleasure. The plate is attached to the tripod T,
fig. 2, by a universal joint, H S ; and the clamping-screws,
S and N, enable the observer to secure it in any required

position.   this  instrument  as a  klinometer,        the edge A D is laid

   To use
on the dip of the stratum, and the arm E F is made horizontal,
    means of the level L,  when            angle of    the dip is indicated
by                                  thKe,              ratios of the base
on  the semicircle by the  edge I          and the

to the   altitude and   slope of the inclined plane by    the rectan
gular   coordinates,   and the divisions on the straight
                                                           edge I K.
For the more accurate purposes of the mining-engineer, and in
cases where the dip is to be determined over a considerable
extent of surface, the instrument is placed in a vertical posi-
JJFTfJJ » NB1T KllMOMXTSK,

    P'OMVASiB ''J'.S3£©lDmBllPJ,;£.

rim'7?K3£E5ffi£"  ,,,,,,,

                  *S&*

                           fir

noil
               TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                  595
ftion on its stand, and the sights e directed to the top of a
post of equal height with the instrument, at the other extremity
of the slope.
    The instrument,  when placed in    adhivoirsiizoonnstalonpoIsitKio,na, nsdervthees
as                   in this case the
    a plane table ;
rectangular coordinates, offer peculiar facilities for the execution
of a rough survey.      KT,hethedisrteaandciengbsetowneetnhetwroecsttaantigounlsarbleininegs
found on the scale   I
will at once give the easting and northing of the undetermined
station ; these can at once be transferred to a skeleton, prepared
by tracing squares on a piece of paper, and each successive
step of the survey is thus completely indicated on the map.
The bearings of the different lines must, of course, be noted, in
order that, by setting back upon them, the observations may
be rendered independent of any changes in the magnetic direc
tion.

On aChronometer with a Glass Balance-spring. By E. J. Dent.

   Mr. Dent presented an account of the rate of this instru
ment, kept at the Royal Observatory, Greenwich, since the last
meeting of the Association. He shewed a chronometer in

motion, with a pure palladium balance-spring ; and produced
a table of the variations of gold, steel, palladium, and glass,
from 32° to 100° Fahr. ; and another table of the quantities

respectively due to direct expansion, and to loss of elasticity,

in steel and palladium.

        On the Polyzonal Lens. By Mr. Gordon.

    Mr. Alexander Gordon exhibited Moritz's modification of
Fresnel's polyzonal lens, which (with a common Argand flame)
is proposed as an ceconomical light for ports and harbours, and
                                                  used) for
to be adopted (when a more intense     flame is  parabolic     coast
lighthouses, in situations where the                         reflec
                                       use of

tors is not absolutely necessary.

On  an  Instrument for  taking   up Water  at great  depths.  By
                                Rennie.
                           Mr.

   Mr. G. Rennie described the principle of construction, and
the practical method of employing this instrument, which has
been tried by him at the estuary of the Tamar, near Plymouth,
and found to succeed completely.

                                         2 q2
596 FOURTH REPORT-- 1834.

On the application of a Vernier to a Scale, not of equal, but
of variable parts, and  particularly to  Wollastons  Scale             of
                          By Professor
Chemical Equivalents.                    Stevelly.

   The form of this instrument is that of a pair of lazy tongs,
consisting of a series of parallelograms, placed in a line, angle
to angle, whose diagonals, when the series is drawn closer or
pushed further apart, diminish or increase, according to the
same law that connects the divisions of the portion of the
scale which is to be read off. An adjusting-screw passes along
the whole length of the vernier ; ten divisions of which being
made by the adjusting-screw to equal eleven on the scale,
the vernier is set for marking decimally : the marking-points
are formed by thin metallic blades coinciding with the cross
diagonals of each parallelogram.

    IV. NATURAL HISTORY, ANATOMY, AND
                        PHYSIOLOGY.

                        BOTANY.

On  the plurality and development  BorfoEwmnb,ryLosL.Din .th§ec.Seeds  of
           Conifers. By Robert

The earliest observations of the author on this subject were
made in the summer of 1826, soon after the publication of his
                 female flower of Cycadece and  PCoinnuifesreSet.robuHse,
remarks on the   in several Coniferm, namely,
then found that
Abies excelsa, and the common larch, the plurality of embryos in
the impregnated ovulum was equally constant, and their arrange
ment in the albumen as regular as in Cycadca? ; and similar ob
servations made during the present summer on several other

species, especially Pinus sylvestris and P. pinaster, render it

highly probable that the same structure exists in the whole

family.
The first change which takes place in the impregnated
ovulum of the Coniferee examined, is the production or separa
tion of a solid body within the original nucleus.

   In this inner body, or albumen, several subcylindrical corpus-
cula, of a somewhat different colour and consistence from the
mass of the albumen, seated near its apex and arranged in a
circular series, soon become visible.

   In each of these corpuscula, which are from three to six in
number, a single thread or funiculus, consisting of several,
        TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.     597

generally of four, elongated cells or vessels, with or without
transverse septa, originates. The funiculi are not unfrequently
ramified, each branch or division terminating in a minute rudi
ment of an embryo. But as the lateral branches of the funiculi
usually consist of a single elongated cell or vessel, while the
principal or terminal branch is generally formed of more than
one, embryos in Coniferce may originate either in one or in several
cells, even in the same funiculus.

   A similar ramification in the funiculi of the Cycas circinalis

has been observed by the author.
   Instances of the occasional introduction of more than one

embryo in the seeds of the several plants belonging to other
families have long been known, but their constant plurality
and regular arrangement have hitherto only been observed in

Cycadece and Coniferce.

On the  Cocculus  Indicus  of  Commerce.  By G. A. W. Arnott,

                               M.D.

   In Wight and Arnott's Prodromus Florce Peninsula; India;
Orientahs, vol. i. p. 446, the Menispermum Cocculus of Linnreus,
the Cocculus tuberosus of De Candolle, or the Cocculus indicus
of commerce, is removed from the genus Cocculus as consti
tuted by De Candolle, although De Candolle considered it the
type of that genus, and placed in the Anamirta of Colebrooke.
{Linn. Soc. Trans, xiii. pp. 52 and 66.) No reasons for this
change are there given, and it is the object of this paper to
state them. The proof depends, 1st, On the general accuracy
of thefigure of the fruit given by Gaertner (De Fruct. et Sem. i.

f.t. 70. 7.), which is presumed to have been taken from a berry

obtained from a shop ; 2nd, On the correspondence of that
figure with berries of the officinal plant procured from the
museum of the materia medica class in the University of Edin
burgh ; 3rd, On the correspondence of the above-mentioned
figure and berries with fruit in Arnott's herbarium, and which
fruit still remains attached to a branch with its leaves ; 4th, On
a specimen of the male inflorescence, which comes from the
same district as that in fruit, and exactly resembles it in every
point, except having male flowers instead of berries ; 5th, On
a comparison of flowering male specimens from the botanic

           of Calcutta, in the herbarium of the Linnaean Society of
faLrodnednon, and which specimens were derived from berries planted
in that garden by Dr. Roxburgh, and transmitted to him by
Heyne, from Malabar, as the plant of commerce ; 6th, On the
total dissimilarity of the male flowers from those of the genus
                            FOURTH REPORT 1834.
Cocculus as characterized by De Candolle, and their exact
coincidence with those described by Roxburgh under his
Menispermum heteroclitum (Ft. Irid. iii. p. 817.), and figured by
him among his drawings in the East India Company's museum
(». 130.) under the name of Men. monadelphum, and of which
Colebrooke has constituted his genus Anamirta. Mr. Colebrooke
has named this species An. paniculata, but Mr. Arnott con
siders it better to resume the Linnaean appellation, and call it
An. Cocculus.

   Mr. Arnott also remarked, in the course of the paper, that
although the order Menispermacecc has been described by De
Candolle, Ach. Richard, Lindley, Hooker, and by himself, as
well as by most other writers on the subject, as having either
(and usually) no albumen, or in small quantity, it is in reality
almost always present, and of considerable thickness ; and,
indeed, in an examination of many species of the order, he has
only yet discovered one in which it does not exist.

·On  ExcretionMs .fDro.m,  the Roots   of Vegetables. By C.             Daubeny,
                           Professor   of Botany, Oxford.

   Dr. Daubeny described the experiments which he is now
carrying on, in compliance with the recommendation of the Bo
tanical Committee of last year, (see Report of the Third
Meeting, p. 484.) with the view of ascertaining in what manner
and to what extent particular plants deteriorate the soils on
which they grow. The results of the experiments will be laid
before a future meeting of the Association

                                                                             .

On   the Distribution      oWf .thCe.  Pheznogamous  FP.lRa.nSts.Eo. f  the  Faroe
         Islands. By                                                    %c.
                                       Trevelyan,

   The author states that the number of species is 271, of
which 84 are monocotyledonous, and 187 dicotyledonous. (See
the Edinburgh Journal of Science.)

                                                      ZOOLOGY.

On the Propagation oGfracheartmainDSacolytteislhl. Zoophytes. By John

   The author commenced his illustrations of this subject by
a few preliminary observations on the Actinice and the Hydra:,
animals whose structure exhibits many analogies, though
standing far apart in the artificial Systerna Naturcc.
TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                            599

1. The Actinia equina is nearly cylindrical, the upper margin
begirt by a triple row of  70 or  80 tentacula, with 30 or 40
purple tubercles at their  root.
                                  A purple ring encircles the
base, and there are two purple patches on the mouth. All the
remainder is brown, speckled with green. Food is seized and
conveyed to the mouth by the tentacula ; smaller portions are
absorbed into the system without any visible residue : the
tubercles open to discharge purple flakes, after moderate sup
plies ; but larger quantities are rejected in the form of a ball,

digestion having probably operated on the surface only.
This animal is viviparous, though the fact is to be very
rarely witnessed. The embryos, one or more, appear first in the
tentacula, from whence they can be withdrawn, and transmitted
to others by the parent, and are at last produced by the mouth.

In the course of six years, a specimen, preserved by the author,
produced above 276 young ; some pale, and like mere specks,
with only eight tentacula, others florid, and with twenty.
They are frequently disgorged along with the half-digested
food, 38 appearing thus at a single litter. An embryo extracted
artificially from the amputated tip ofatentaculum, began to breed
in fourteen months, and survived nearly five years. Mon
strosities by excess are not uncommon among the young : one
produced naturally, consisting of two perfect bodies, and their
parts sustained by a single base, exhibited embryos in the
tentacula at ten months, bred in twelve, and lived above five
years. While one body was gorged with food, the other con
tinued ravenous.
   2. Hydra tuba, the trumpet polypus, thus denominated from
its form, inhabits the Frith of Forth, near Edinburgh, where
its natural abode seems the internal concavity of the upper
oyster-shell. Removed to an artificial site, it suspends itself by
its narrow base, while the long slender tentacula, above thirty
in number, descend two inches, to wave as a beautiful white
silken pencil in the water. Thus it is by much the largest of
the Hydra; proper.
This animal is alike voracious as the former. Its colour,
naturally a dingy white, is affected by the quality of the food,
and the fertility of both species is dependent on the quantity
of nutriment. The flesh of muscles seems that which is most
acceptable to many of the small aquatic animals.
   The embryo originates in a rude organic mass, as an ex
ternal bud, near the base of the parent. Prominences above
soon indicate incipient tentacula surrounding the mouth, while
the lower part remains united by a ligament, which gradually
decreases until it is ruptured, as the embryo withdraws to esta
600 FOURTH REPORT-- 1834.

blish itself independently. It never drops from the parent, but
often, when yet immature, buds are germinating from its
sides, while the opposite side of the parent enlarges also ; the
whole presenting a shapeless and distorted congeries, which is
refined by time into separate, distinct, and perfect animals.

A single specimen had eighty- three descendants in thirteen
months, nor were its prolific powers then exhausted.
Some authors have maintained that the Hydra of fresh
water propagate by buds at one season, and by ova at another.
Nothing of this alternation occurred in the course of the au
thor's observations, protracted during five years, on an original
group, and the posterity of these marine Polypi.
   The locomotive faculties of the Actinia: and the Hydra are
                                                    the most limited scale.
exeS.rciTseudbuvlearryiaseinlddoimvi,saa.n--d Aon  splendid stem rooted below,  and

rising thirteen inches high, is crowned by a scarlet head, bear
ing some correspondence with the structure of the former
animals. The mouth is situated in the centre, amidst forty or
fifty less active filaments, and the margin is surrounded by
thirty or thirty-five tentacula, expanding fourteen or fifteen

lines between their opposite tips. A tenacious yellowish matter
fills the  tubular stem,  which is frequently                  in con
siderable                 the root be ruptured.    discharged
           quantities if
   Splendid groups are formed by fifty or even a hundred spe
cimens of this zoophyte, in immediate approximation.

   An ample ovarium, resembling clusters of grapes, is borne
externally on the head, and weighing it down by its exuberance.
On approaching maturity the ovum drops from its cluster for
evolution below, where slight prominences soon denote incipient

tentacula, as in the Hydra, while incorporated with the parent.
But, as they extend, a knot enlarges their extremities, contrary
to their ultimate acute formation in adults. Next, the nascent
animal, reversing itself, enjoys the faculty of progression by
means of the inverted tentacula, as on so many feet, apparently
to select a site ; when, again resuming the natural direction with
the extremities upwards, the lower surface fixes itself below,
and roots there for ever : meantime elongation of the stalk
raises the head amidst its watery element.

   It is evident, therefore, that the Tubularia indivisa, though
subsequently rooted as a plant, is originally of animal nature
exclusively.
The head is deciduous, generally falling from the stem a
short time after removal from the sea; but regeneration ensues
at intervals of from several days to several weeks, though the
successive heads are never equally luxuriant, nor bear a prolific
              TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                         601

ovarium like the first. The number of tentacula decreases pro

gressively. Another smaller species, here denominated, provi
sionally, Tubularia polyceps, sometimes occurring in groups of
five hundred heads, propagates after the same manner. The

head is regenerated also, and under a similar deficiency. A
specimen had originally twenty-one tentacula, but only sixteen
were renovated with the second head ; and with the seventh
they had diminished to six. The head evidently rises as a bud
within the tube from below, and its origin seems dependent on
the subsistence of the internal tenacious matter.

   Regeneration may be effected artificially, and even to re
dundance, beyond the apparent provision of Nature. Thus,
twenty- two heads were obtained in five hundred and fifty days,
from three sections of a single specimen. An equal number
        neSveertrurlaerpiaro. d--ucTehdebymoasntylusxpuerciiamnetn   preserved entire.
was                                                                 of this diversified genus
    3.

may be compared to leafless shrubs in miniature, composed of
stem, boughs, branches, and twigs, all clothed with variously
shaped prominent cells, the habitation of so many Hydrce or
Polypi, capable of protruding from them. These are generally
white, or of a light grey or green colour ; some more sluggish ;
others very vivacious, having from eight to twenty tentacula in
a single row, with the mouth dilating, as a cup, in the centre,
to absorb the prey. None exceed a line in diameter. The
whole product is tubular, and occupied by an internal pith or
animal substance, with which the polypi are connected, and on
the presence of which in their vicinity their survivance depends.
The largest hitherto obtained by the author from the Scottish
seas, is here denominated, provisionally, Sertularia Uber; it rises
nearly three feet high, by the slenderest stem, thus exceeding
greatly the dimensions usually ascribed to these zoophytes.
   Besides a profusion of cells, many specimens, of various

species, bear an indefinite number of vascular substances, three
or four times their size, or even larger, and of greatly diver
sified configuration and arrangement. They are spherical,
ovoidal, formed as a vase or as a Florence flask, indented,

irregular, with an orifice at the summit or in the side. It does

not appear that all specimens of the same species bear uniformly
the same kind of vesicle. They abound at every season, pro
bably from the nearly equable temperature of the sea, sub

sisting long if undisturbed ; but their origin is never to be

witnessed. 1
   Each vesicle contains from one to thirty white, grey, reddish,
green, or yellow corpuscula, the number, and perhaps the
size, depending partly on the species of Sertularia. However,
   602  '  FOURTH REPORT 1834.

   white and yellow respectively occur on different specimens of
   the same species, and they are the most common of all.

       Preceding naturalists have maintained that the vesicles are
   the ovaria, and the corpuscula the ova, whereby Sertularice are
   propagated. But the author's experiments and observations

   greatly multiplied during many years, on many specimens of

   various species, have not led the author directly to the same
   conclusion.

       The contents of the vesicle are not distinguished originally
   by any definite form. At a certain stage they are recognised
   as spherical or ovoidal corpuscula, the former being their
   earliest sensible shape. In advancing somewhat further, they
   resolve into spherical triangular prisms, betraying evident ani
   mation by extension and contraction ; and motion commencing,
   places are interchanged among them. At length, attaining
   maturity, they issue from the orifice of the vesicle, not as
   young Sertitlariae, but as a race of perfect animals, bearing
   many features of the Planaria, and which may constitute a new
   genus, to be denominated Planula.

       The vesicle now remains empty and transparent, nor is it
   known to be replenished by another brood ; but occasionally a
   small portion appears in the centre, as of a slender twig having
   penetrated upwards.

       These creatures are produced in extraordinary profusion.
   Above 1200 have issued from the vesicles of a portion of the
   Sertularia Uber; and multitudes, in still greater proportion,
   from those of others. But only one was contained in the
   vesicles of the Sertularia abietina examined, and in those of
   several species which did not attain maturity.

       Ordinarily the Planulae are white or yellow, opake, smooth,
   and flattened, somewhat triangular, tapering from the head
   which is always obtuse, downwards to the lower extremity,
   and extending from inferior dimensions to rather above a line.
   Those of certain species are pyriform, and of others linear,
   with obtuse extremities. Neither eyes nor any external or
   gans have been discovered.

      The motion of the Planulee is smooth and gliding; they crawl
   actively over the bottom of the containing vessel or up its
   sides ; they suspend themselves in the water by an invisible
   thread, as the Planarice, and like them swim supine.

      But in a few days their motion relaxes ; they become sluggish
   and stationary ; their figure alters, and they die, yet without
   that speedy decomposition incident to Planarice.

      Very soon afterwards a circular spot or low spherical segment
   of the same colour, white or yellow, is observed in just about

\
          TRANSACTIONS OP THE SECTIONS.                                                     603

the identical place where the Planula perished. A short
spinous prolongation rising from the centre, becomes a stalk,
with an enlarging summit, which, forming into a cell, in a few
days more bursts, to display a living polypus in full activity.

   While scarcely mature, other buds are germinating along
with further extension of the parts, and quickly perfected as
so many more cells with their polypi ; and thus by progressive
multiplication is the entire specimen produced under its proper

aspect.

   Meantime the circular spot below, invariably white or yellow,
according to the Planula, is losing its opacity ; it breaks into
divisions resembling radicles, still confined within its margin,
and at last disappears in tenuity.
   Thus,  vewsiitchlest,h--e tphoresecauetxiohnibiotifngselceoctripnugscusplaecitmo etnhse  beyeea,r--inga
prolific
whole forest of nascent zoophytes may be easily obtained.
The author cannot affirm that amidst a multitude of observa

tions he has ever witnessed their origin, under other conditions
than the presence of the Planula;, and these have been afford
ed by eight or ten species of Sertularia:, vegetating as para
sites, or, independently, from solid foundations.

   Nevertheless, as truth is the sole purpose of scientific re
search, several difficult questions must be offered for solution.
1 . When does the vesicle originate ? 2. Is it deciduous and
regenerated ? 3. Does it include some invisible pericarp or
true ovarium, containing the elements of the progeny of the

Sertularia ? 4. Is their maturity indicated by the presence of
the Planula? 5. Does its escape by the orifice of the vesicle
promote their discharge? 6. Are these elements absorbed
by the Planula while in the vesicle, and their evolution after
wards promoted by its
   4>. Flustra carbasea.  --deTathhe%genus  Flustra  is  of  more                           simple

structure, and consists of fewer parts than Sertularia.
The Flustra carbasea rises from the root by a short flattened
stem, with a stout yellow margin, simply as a leaf consisting of
foliaceous subdivisions, free at the margin, as they are suscepti
ble of enlargement. One surface is covered by cells of a shuttle,
or rather a slipper shape, the edges of the whole forming
that surface, level, not prominent. Each cell is composed of a
broad flattened top connected with the bottom by sides like
those connecting the back and belly of the violin, and there is
an aperture above towards one extremity for protrusion of the
polypus, which, affixed by the posterior part, reposes within,
folded as the letter S, and when active extends to display
about twenty-two tentacula. The leaf rises vertically, and the
604 FOURTH REPORT 1834.

protrusion of the polypus is horizontal, or at right angles to
its surface.
Cells are occasionally occupied by a large, irregularly round,
solid, yellow, ciliated animalculum, afterwards quitting them
to swim heavily below. Its motion relaxes, it becomes sta

tionary, and dies, like the Planulcc, without speedy decompo
sition.
In just about the same spot also where the animalculum
became quiescent, a yellow nucleus is soon discovered, with a
pale diffusing margin. This enlarges as the nucleus declines ;
it gradually approximates the shuttle or slipper form of a cell,
                            it gives   birth in nine                         or  eleven days     to
and, converted to   such,  Flustra    was vertical,                         but  the new cell
                   adult                                                                         is
a polypus. The
horizontal. One extremity, however, is already rising vertically,
which, extending after a similar fashion, proves the nidus of a
second polypus in nine or eleven days more. The protrusion
of the two animals now shows them at right angles to each

other. But as if the existence of the first were only a sole or
foundation for securing the superstructure in its growth, it
perishes as a third cell with its polypus forms above the second
by enlargement of the leaf.
   Thus there seems to be some relation between the spherules

occupying the cells and the originating Flustra ; but equal diffi
cul5t.iesCrriesqtautierellasomluitriaobnilihse. r--e Nasatwuirtahlistthse,
                                                                            preceding    race.   sin
                                                                              attracted  by the
gular diversity of structure in the genus Sertularia, and too
readily satisfied with mere external aspect, have devoted infi
nitely more attention to the simple skeleton or tube than to
the animated parts. In as far as the author is aware, the tenta-
cula of all their polypi, together with those of the Flustra,
Tubularia, the Alcyonium, and Pennatula, are disposed in cir
cular arrangement, the mouth being in the centre. Several
zoophytes of very different conformation inhabit the ponds, the
lakes, and the streams of Scotland ; among these the propa
gation of the Cristatella mirabilis is chiefly considered by the
author, as the product itself seems to have eluded the research
of previous observers.
   Perfect specimens occur from six lines to twenty-four in
length, by two or three in breadth, of a flattened figure, fine
translucent green colour, and fleshy consistence. Some of the
shorter, tending to an elliptical form, may be compared to the
external section of an ellipsoid ; but those of the largest dimen
                        is,
sions are linear, that with parallel sides and curved extre

mities.

The middle of the upper and the whole of the under surface
        TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                                        605

are smooth ; the former somewhat convex, occasioned by a
border of 70 or 80, or even of 350 individual polypi, disposed
                              Their number depends                                of
in a  stpreipcliemerno,w--.  increasing as long as it    entirely  on  the  size
the                                                    grows.
This product is endowed with the faculty of locomotion,
either extremity indifferently being in advance ; but its progres
sion, uncommonly slow, seldom exceeds an inch in twelve or
twenty-four hours.
Each of the numerous polypi, though an integral portion of
the common mass, is a distinct animal, endowed with separate
action and sensation. The body, rising about a line by a tubu
lar fleshy stem, is crowned by a head, which may be circum
scribed by a circle as much in diameter, formed as a horse
shoe, and bordered by a hundred tentacula. Towards one
side the mouth, of singular mechanism, seems to have projecting
lips and to open as a valve ; folds up within, conveying the
particles which are absorbed to the wide orifice of an intestinal
organ, which descends perhaps in a convolution, below, and
returns again to terminate in an excretory canal under the site
of the tentacula. Probably the whole race of Cristatellce is
distinguished by a similar conformation.
The polypus is a very vivacious animal, quickly retreating for
security when alarmed, and rising to expand in activity. Though
each be endowed with independent life, sensation, and all the
motions that can be exercised without actual transition, the
whole are subjected to the volition of the sluggish mass in re
         to progression: -- They are borne along with it.
speAct  specimen having been cut transversely asunder,                 each  por

tion seemed to recede by common consent ; but both survived,

as if sustaining no injury. Neither is any polypus affected by
the violence offered in its vicinity.
Twenty, thirty, or more lenticular substances, of considerable
size and in the most irregular arrangement, imbedded in the
flesh, are exposed through the translucent green of the animal.
Its death and decomposition towards the end of autumn liberate
them to float in the water. Subjected to the microscope, or,
indeed, to the naked eye, their convex surfaces prove brown,
the circumference yellow, and begirt with a row of spines,
terminating in double hooks. Each is an ovum of the Cris-
tatella, with a hard shell, and occupied by yellowish fluid con

tents.

   In five or six months the ovum gapes at one side to allow the
protrusion of an originating polypus, which by a remarkable
provision of Nature now floats reversed, with the head down
wards, to ensure absorption of the liquid element below. On
606 FOURTH REPORT -- 1834.

quitting the ovum it attaches itself to some solid substance by
the base, then disproportionately large, from which a second
polypus quickly rises, then a third, and a fourth ; and thus with
others. In earlier stages the Cristatella mirabilis seems to be
of a circular figure, and in its most mature state there is a mar
                             --rooTtheof
gin projecting beyond the                 the polypi.              of  au
   6. Cristatella paludosa.               indistinct descriptions
thors embarrass naturalists excessively in their endeavours to
recognise the lower animals ; and this will be found one prin
cipal source of multiplied synonyms, and of the errors some
times unjustly charged on the framers of each systema naturce.
That which is here designated the Cristatella paludosa ap
                                                  overspreading the
pears generally   as  a grey gelatinous   mass,   stratum, and pos
surface of fresh      faded leaves in a   single
                  or
sibly thickening into a blackish spongy substance with age.
During earlier stages, while merely superficial, it invests the
under surface of the growing leaf in an irregular stellate figure
with diverging points. When larger it extends into an area equal
to two or three square inches over one or both sides, especially

of the leaves which have fallen, and, unlike the Cristatella
mirabilis, it is affixed in firm and permanent adhesion.
The whole is studded with white specks, proving under the

microscope to be as many polypi, intimately resembling the
former in their general structure and nature ; but they are in
finitely smaller : more than one is incorporated with a common
portion ; nor do the tentacula bordering the crescent exceed
forty-four or forty-eight. The arrangement of the intestinal
parts and their functions seem the same.
   Numerous minute ova, resembling the former, but not ex
ceeding a tenth part of their size, and destitute of circumferen
tial spines, are dispersed throughout the greyish mass, being
more accumulated towards the white bases of the polypi. They
seem to escape from the recent product by transmission through
the tubular body of the polypus, passing between the side and
the intestinal organ, to be discharged somewhere above. The
ova escape from the recent Cristatella mirabilis also, but in
what manner has not been ascertained.

Multitudes, liberated as the Cristatella paludosa breaks up
in decay, are usually attracted to the side of the vessel by the
curve which is formed there by the water, besides some re
maining at the surface. The ovum gapes as before, and the
two halves sunder to give birth to a single polypus, often in a
few days after discharge or liberation. The nascent animals
are affixed permanently to the first spot they reach, and in the
course of increment their bodies seem incorporated together.
         TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.               607

7. It would require a separate dissertation to illustrate the
mode of increment peculiar to zoophytes in detail, and to de
scribe their extraordinary reproductive properties.
   The stem of the Tubularia indivisa elongates only during
the subsistence of the head. This having fallen, it remains
stationary. The elements of this important organ, the recep
tacle of food and the source of the progeny, seem dispersed
throughout the stem, and it is regenerated from the residue left
by sections very near the root. The original cell of the nascent
Sertularia polyxonias is accompanied by a diminutive twin in
vested by a common membrane ; and one is always forking off
in future increment as the other gains maturity. Sometimes
polypi are regenerated in the vacant cells of Sertularia;, pro
vided the pith be entire ; but the reproductive powers succeeded
by violence are not displayed as in the Tubularia:.
Wounds and lacerations, inevitably destructive to the larger
animals, are suffered with impunity by those allied to the Hydra,
and in promoting the evolution of dormant parts denote that
the principle is there. In others of the lower tribes, such as
those now denominated Annulosa, it is doubtful whether the
elements of the entire animal do not even reside in every seg
ment. The Amphitrite ventilabrum, which attains twelve or
fifteen inches in length in the Scottish seas, regenerates either
the higher or lower extremity indifferently when mutilated.
The author has found also that very small intermediate sec
tions near the extremity of this and other species regenerated
the beautiful complicated anterior plume of branchiae, and the
posterior glandular parts, perhaps aiding the construction of
the tube. While the body remains a fragment, the former is
disproportionately large, nor can its singular mechanical pro-

         be exercised when the redintegrated animal is dislodged
fiferormtieists original dwelling.
   However luxuriant a zoophyte may appear in ultimate ma
turity, though consisting of hundreds of naked animals as in
the Cristatella and Alcyonium, or of a thousand cells with their
polypi as in the Sertularia and Flustra, the origin of all is one
only. Perhaps the formation of the cell and the other inani
mate parts undergoes some modification with       ethqeualalygelarogfet,heif
product : the animal with which it originates is
not larger than any of its successors.
All the products described in this memoir, except the Cris-
tatellce, dwell in the sea, from whence their recovery is often
as much the consequence of accident as design. Most of the
preceding results have been verified only with years of obser

vation.
608 FOURTH REPORT -- 1834.

On the  Transformations of          the Crustacea.  By J. O. West-

                             wood,  F.L.S. Sfc.

   The object of this communication having reference to one of

the three queries relative to the annulose animals, proposed by
the Association, was to endeavour to prove the correctness of

the views of Rathke, and the consequent want of foundation of
those of Thompson :

    1st, By a summary of the recent authorities particularly
bearing upon the question ; and 2ndly, by a statement of some
facts which had come under the notice of the author himself.

    In the former branch of the subject were mentioned the
dissertation of Rathke upon the development of the ova of
Asellus aquaticus; the memoir of Dr. Zencker upon the
 Gammarus Pulex ; and the more generalized memoir of M. H.
Milne Edwards, of which a report by M. St. Hilaire has been

                 in the Annates des Sciences Naturelles, in which,
Euhobwliesvheer,d the nature of the transformations of the genera Cy-
mothoa, Cyamus, and Phronima is particularly noticed.

   From these works, as well as from Mr. Thompson's own
memoirs on Mysis and Artemia, and Mr. Coldstream's paper
upon Limnoria terebrans, (Jameson's Edinburgh Journal,
April 1834,) it is evident that although the more typical Crus
tacea (Malacostraca) undergo a series of moultings, whereby
an increase of size, and sometimes a slight increase in the
number of locomotive organs are obtained, yet there is no
violent change of form similar to the metamorphoses of insects;
such, in fact, as it is asserted by Mr. Thompson that even the

more typical Crustacea undergo.

   With reference to the second branch of his notice, the
author stated that although the land crab of the West Indies
was that particular species upon whose habits Mr. Thompson
more especially dwelt, as indicating the necessity of metamor
phosis in Crustacea, he had obtained from the collection of
the Rev. L. Guilding specimens of the ova and young, just
hatched, of that species, and which he had himself extracted
from beneath the abdomen of a female, where many hundred
others were deposited, the young having all the appearance of
the perfect animal, and not a single zoe being present. He had

also obtained from the same collection zoes nearly an inch
long, rather too large to admit of the supposition that they
would subsequently be transformed into crabs, and dwindle
into the size of the young ones just noticed.

   Thus types of all the great divisions of the Malacostraca have

been ascertained to undergo no metamorphosis ;
              TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                                               609

The     Brachyura                bei-n--g r--epresented  by the Land Crab,
The     Macrura                                                     Cray-fish,
The
mTh, e  ASAmchpizh,oi.ppoodda,a                               f Mysis,
                                                                    Gammarus andPfiro-
The Lcemodipoda
rTmh_e ITsopodai                                               ^ w-,Ma>

                                                              f Cyamus,
                                                                    Asellus, Cymothoa,

                                                              1 and Lh,,JHOria.

   The author, in conclusion, suggested that there might possibly
be some parasitic connexion between Zoe and the Crabs where
by Mr. Thompson's statements might be accounted for, adding
that precisely analogous case exists in the young of the Cole
opterous genus Meloe and the Pediculus Melittcc.

Observations  on                 the  OPr.bJi.taSl eGlblayn,dsF.Rin.Sc.er$taci.n  tribes  of Birds.

                                 By

In this paper, after adverting to the little attention hitherto
paid by naturalists to these glandular bodies, or their supposed
use in  tphreocceeecdosnomtoypooifntthoeutbitrhdesirinsitwuhaitcihont,he&yc,araendfoutnod,shtohwe
author
that they secrete an oily fluid of a peculiar quality, which fluid
is distributed, by appropriate ducts, over the eyes, and serves to
defend them from the action of the water, in which the birds

possessing the glands usually reside, or at least are in the
frequent habit of procuring their food ; that all birds be
longing to the order Natatores, hitherto examined, possess the
glands, developed to a greater or inferior extent as their habits
are more or less aquatic ; that they are largest in the habitual
Divers, and in such as feed with the head submerged ; that they
also exist in many species of the order Grallatores, but only in
such as are well known to submerge the head in search of
food, by probing the sand &c. beneath the surface of the
water. After instancing several examples belonging to both
orders, and contrasting the size of the organ with the known
habits of the birds, he further suggests that this oily fluid may
be more especially secreted to protect the eye from the effects
of saline or sea water, as the development of the gland appears
in a great degree to be regulated by the marine habits of the
birds, and that its mode of action is that of a thin and transparent
varnish spread over the globe of the eye. The structure and
form of the gland are then described, and the course of the ex
cretory ducts pointed out.

1834.                                 2 it
610 FOURTH REPORT 1834.

Notice of BirdBsyobPs.erJv.edSeinlbyS,uthFe.rRla.Snd. sh%irce. , June 1 834 .

                          Ordo Raptores.

                       Fam. I'Vw.i <'nii' i:.

1. Aquila Chrysaetos.  1 Common in the North and West of Su-

2. Haliaetus albicillus. J therland ; very destructive to sheep and
        lambs. Premiums paid for their destruction : 171 full-grown
birds killed within the last three years.

3. Pandion Haliaetus. Common on the north-west coast.

4. Falco peregrinus.
5. Falc. Tinnunculus. Abundant.

6. Milvus vulgaris.

7. Buteo vulgaris.
8. Circus cyaneus. Only one individual seen.

                       {No Strigidce seen.)

                       Ordo Insessores.

Tribus Fissirostres.             Fam. Hiriindinid/l.

 9. Hirundo rustica.
1 0. Hir. urbica. Smoo cave, and limestone rocks, Inch-na-damff.
11. Hir. riparia.
1£. Cypselus murarius. Smoo cave.

                       Fam. Todidx.

13. Muscicapa Grisola. Rose Bank, south of Sutherland.

Tribus Dkntirostres.             Fam. Merulidjs.

14. Merula musica. Abundant more to the northern extremity of
         Sutherland, wherever birch coppice abounds. All of the com
          mon species, and no appearance of a smaller kind, called by
          Mr. Laidler the little brown thrush.

15. Mer. vulgaris. Rare.
16. Mer. torquata. Abundant in all the mountainous parts.
17. Cinclus aquaticus. Now becoming rare, as it is destroyed by

           every device, from an idea that it feeds upon the salmon spawn.
          This is not established.

                                       Fam. Stlviadje.                         of

18. Sylvia phragmites. Met with throughout the greater part
            Sutherland.

19. Sylv. Trochilus. Ditto, wherever birch abounds.
20. Curruca cinerea. In the South of Sutherland.
21. Erythrcea Rubecula.
22. Phcenicura Kutacilla.
23. Saxicola CEnanthe. Very abundant throughout the county.
24. Sax. Rubetra.
25. Sax. Rubicola.
TRANSACTIONS OP THE SECTIONS.                                             Gil

26. Motacilla alba. Common.
27. Mot. Boarula. In various parts.
28. Anthus pratensis. Very abundant.
29. Accentor communis.

30. Parus ater.
81. Par. cceruleus.

                 Tribus Conirostres.  Fam. Frinoillid*.

32. Alauda arvensis. Abundant.
33. Ember iza miliaria.
34. Emb. citrinella.
35. Emb. Schceniculus.
36. Fringilla ccelebs.
37. Passer communis.
38. Linaria cannabina. Rare.
39. Lin. montium. Very common.
40. Lin. minor. In birch woods.

                       Fam. Corvid*.

41. Corvus Comix. Common.
42. Cor. frugilegus. On the southern border only.

43. Slurnus vulgaris.      Fam. Sturnid/e.
                       At Smoo Cave and Scourie.

Tribus Scansores.                     Fam. Certhiad*.

44. Troglodytes europceus.

                                      Fam. Cuculid*.
45. Cuculus canorus. Very abundant.

                       Ordo Rasores.

                       Fam. CoLUMBiDiE.

46. Columba Livia. Common ; caves upon the coast.
47. Col. Palumbus. Rare.

                       Fam. Tetraonid*.

48. Tetrao Tetrix.                                      (Assynt)  range.
49. Lagopus scoticus.
50. Lag. mutus.
51. Lag. rupestris. Killed upon the Benmore
52. Perdix cinerea.

                       Ordo Grallatores.

                       Fam. ClIAUADRlAU.E.

53. Ctiaradrius pluvialis. Very abundant.               Breeding upon the heather.
54. Char. Hiaticula. Ditto.
55. Vanellus cristatus. Ditto.

56. Hcematopus Ostralegus.
                                                  2 R2

                                                                                    /
(J12 FOURTH REPORT-- 1834.

                                   Fam. Scolopacid*.

57. Scolopax Gallinago. Abundant. Scolopax Gallinula is also said
           to breed near Tongue, but we did not meet with it.

58. Totanus Calidris.
59. Tot. Glottis. Breeds in Sutherlandshire. Breeding- station pre

          viously not known. Young procured.
60. Tringa variabilis. Abundant.
61. Numenius arquatus. Ditto in particular districts.
62. Num. Phceopus. Rare.

68. Fulica atra.                         Fam. Ralt.iiwe.
                           Rare.

                                  Ordo Natatores.

                                      Fam. Anatid^.

64. Anser Segetum. Discovered breeding on many of the lochs, viz.
            Lochs Shin, Laighal, Barncuh Naver, &c. Young in the downy
           state procured.

65. Anas Boschas.
66. Mareca Penelope. On many lochs. Breeding. Nest and eggs

           found for the first time in Britain.
67. Fuligula marila. Found breeding for the first time near to En-

            boll, in a small freshwater loch.
68. Mergus Serrator. Common upon all the lochs.
69. Merg. Merganser. Rare.

                                         Fam. C'oi.YMBiD.r.

70. Colymbus glacialis. Pair in summer plumage : seen in Balna-
           chiel Bay.

71. Col. arcticus. This beautiful species was discovered for the first
          time in Britain. Breeding in most of the freshwater lochs.
           The eggs and young were procured and two old birds killed.
          Plumage of both sexes alike. Eggs deep oil green with darker
            blotches.

72. Col. septentrionalis. Seen in different lochs, but no nest found.
73. Podiceps minor. Rare.

74. Uria TroAillee., "\*I           Fam. Alcad*.
                           nU,"prPo°n .t·he sout&h.ern coast.
75. Ur. Gryllele. )

                           Fam. Pelecanid*.

76. Phalacrocorax Carbo.
77. Phal. cristatus.
78. Sula Bassana. Northern coast.

                           Fam. Lariwe.

79. Lams marinus.
                   TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.            613

80. Larus argentatus.

81. Lar.fuscus.      ")
82. Lar.canus.                    in various
                       ^Breeding              places.
83. Lar. ridibundus.J

84. Sterna arctica.

85. 67. cantiaca.

Observations on the Salmonidae which were met with during an
excursion to the North-west       oBfarStu. t*herlandshire  in June 1834.

By Sir William Jardine,

  A short excursion was undertaken to Sutherlandshire in June

last for the purpose of examining the natural productions of the
county, for which object, including the examination of the fish
eries, every facility, by permission, and direction to the tacks
men, was afforded by the Duchess of Sutherland.

   The county of Sutherland having a large range of sea-coast
indented with innumerable bays, its shores were a favourite
resort of the Salmon, and the fisheries were valuable and car
ried on extensively. On account of the deterioration of them
of late years, the Duke of Sutherland took them entirely un
der his own direction two years since. The close time was
regulated according to the season of running in the different
rivers. The fish were strictly preserved, and in several rivers
the Gilse were all permitted to run. This year (the second of
the improved management) the produce was in many streams
doubled. Experiments were also instituted (principally in the
Laxford by Mr. Baigrie) to ascertain whether the Gilse re
turned to the river the same year in which they were spawned ;
and the fact that they did so was satisfactorily established.
The general weight of those that returned first was from three
to four pounds. It may be here remarked that the salmon is
often taken on the Sutherland shores, at the Haddock lines,
baited with sand-eels, and in the Durness Firth with lines set
on purpose with the same bait ; thereby disproving Dr. Knox's
hypothesis that their only food in the sea consists of Entomo-
straca and the ova of star-fish.

   Of the Migratory Salmonidce, that of next importance to the

Salmon is what in all the North Highlands is called the Sea
 Trout, distinguished by the tacksmen as the larger and smaller
kinds, the first entering the rivers about the commencement of
June, the second about the middle of July. The first or largest
fish was thought to be identical with the Tweed Whitling ; 300

   · The gentlemen composing the expedition were Mr. Selby, Mr. James
Wilson, Dr. Greville, Sir William Jardine, and Mr. John Jardine.
614                 FOURTH REPORT-- 1834.

were sometimes taken at a sweep of the common salmon draught
net from the weight of one pound to about three. The second
or smaller fish upon comparison was found to be identical with
the Herling of the Solway Firth, the Sahno albtis of Fleming's
British Zoology. It occurs in numbers in proportion to the
first of about ten
   Non-migratory    to one.     --The  North-west  of Sutherland-
                    Salmonida.
shire is studded with an immense multitude of lochs, in which
Trout are almost the peculiar fish ; they differ from each other
so much in the various districts as to warrant the suspicion that

more than one species is included under the common name of
Trout. The characters were constant in particular districts,
and four very marked varieties were exhibited, differing chiefly
inthe general form, proportion of the fins, and form of the scales

and of the intestines. By many ichthyologists the different ap
pearances of trout are all referred to S. Fario, with a most
extensive range of variation ; but the subject appears yet to
require investigation. Many of the trout in these lochs are of

very fine quality.

   In most of the larger lochs, particularly in the district of
Assynt, the Greater Grey or Lake Trout, Salmo ferox, Jard.,
was found. This fish is noticed by several of the British writers,
but only as a variety of the common trout. It is distinct, and
possesses good specific characters. It reaches the weight of
twenty-five pounds. In Scotland it has been taken in Lochs
Awe, Shin, Loyal, Assynt, &c. ; in the latter fourteen speci
mens were procured. Its food is almost exclusively fish. The
flesh is very coarse, and of a yellowish pink colour.
   The Char, Salmo alpinus (S. Umbla, Agass.), is found in most

of the lochs ; but, from the difficulty of tempting them with any
bait, few were procured. They are only seen and taken in num
bers when approaching the mouths of the small rivulets to spawn,
and at that time are deteriorating in condition. They appear
in best condition in June and July, and might then be taken in
numbers with nets stretched across or into the lochs. They
feed on aquatic insects, but seem active chiefly during the

night.

   The Parr, Salmo Salmulus, Penn., was found in many rivers
sparingly, nowhere abundant, and apparently decreasing in
number towards the north.
   No other Salmonidce were met with during the excursion ;
but after the above remarks upon those mentioned, specimens
were exhibited of the Gillaroo Trout from Ireland apparently
only a variety of Salmo Fario. The food found in the stomach
consists exclusively of different species of freshwater shells,
          TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                                     615

but the coats and sides of the stomach are not morejnuscular

than in the common trout.
   The Whitling and Bull Trout of the Tweed are the young
and adult states of the same fish, which is the Salmo Eriox of

some authors, and reaches a large size.                                     --The lochs
  TheLochmaben Vendace,Coregonus mara?nula(t).
in the neighbourhood of Lochmaben are the only known habitat
in Scotland for this fish, and the author is not sure that there
is any authentic station for it in England or Wales. The
stomachs were entirely filled with minute Entomostraca, which
certainly at times constitute the greater part of the nourish
ment of
   Note.  --thiAsllfisthhe.se  fish were shown  to M. Agassiz.              All the trout
he considered as varieties of Salmo Fario ; S. ferox, an ad
dition to the Salmonidce of Europe, and new to him ; the Whit
ling and Bull Trout also new to him, and differing from any of
the fish he was acquainted with in the Continental rivers ; Parr,
the young of S. Fario ; and the Lochmaben Vendace distinct
from the Coregonus maramida of continental ichthyologists.

Notice regarding the           Coleopterous     WInislescotns , coFlle.Rct.eSd.Ed.ur$icn.g  a
   Tour in Sutherland.
                                 By James

[The following extract from this memoir will show the views of the author,
   who is engaged in preparing a report on the geographical distribution of in
   sects for the next Meeting of the Association.]

   In the total absence of any information regarding the entomo
logical productions of the North of Scotland, the following ca
talogue of species was drawn up, as a commencement, however
defective, of those local lists, which, in a completed state, will
tend to illustrate an important department of natural history.
The value of such lists is in a great measure independent of
their presenting the names of new or rare species : it consists
in their exhibiting a true picture of the prevailing entomologi

cal character of countries. From an assemblage of such pic

tures the general distribution of species and the laws by which
it is regulated and maintained are eventually to be deduced.
No apology need, therefore, be offered for the want of novelty
in the following catalogue :

Cicindela campeatris.          COLEOPTBEA.                                                     '-
                                                                                            .;
Cychrus rostratus.                           Carabus arvensis.
Carabus catenulatus.                                          cancellatus.
                                                              violaceus.
616 FOURTH REPORT -- 1834.

Carabus hortensis.                Dyticus marginalis.
                                  Hydroporus trivialis.
                glabratus.        Colymbetes bipustulatus.
                clathratus.
Helobia brevicollis.                                 agilis.
             Gyllenhalii.                            uliginosus.
Leistus rufescens.                Gyrinus marinus.

Lamprias chlorocephalus.                          natator.
Clivina fossor.
                                  Helophorus aquaticus.
Dyschirius gibbus.
Broscus cephalotes.               Hydrobius    griseus.
Feronia nigrita.                              granularis.

               mclanaria.                    melanocephalus.
                                             fuscipes.
               nigra,                        orbicularis.
             orinomum.
Abax striola.                     Sphseridium 4-maculatum.
Poecilus cupi eus.                Necrophorus vespillo.
Argutor erythropus.               Oiceoptoma rugosa.
             pullus.
Harpalus ruficornis.                                    thoracica.

                limbatus.         Silpha obscura, var.
                                  Phosphuga at rat a ; and var.
                    aeneus.       Meligethes viridescens.
                                  Byrrhu3 pilula.
Tarus basalis.
Curtonotus aulicus.                             fasciatus.

Bradytus apricarius.                            reneus.
Amara eurynota.                               varius.
                                  Hister carbonarius.
             communis,
                                  Onthopbilus striatus.
            vulgaris,
            familiaris.           Geotrupcs stercorarius.
            similata.                              sylvaticus.
Patrobus rufipes.                                    vernalis.
Calathus piceus.
                                             laevis.
                 cisteloides.
                                  Aphodius rufipes.
                 melanocephalus.                    fimetarius.
               mollis.
Clisthopus rotundatus.                       terrestris.
Agonum mcestum.
               viduum.                       fossor.

               parumpunctatum.                      rufescens.
Anchomenus albipes.
Loricera pilicornis.              Phyllopertha horticola.
Badister bipustulatus.            Trichius fasciatus.
Trechus minutus.
Blemus paludosus.                 Ctenicerus tessellatus.
Peryphus littoralis.
Notiophilus aquaticus.                       pectinicornis.

                    biguttatus.                       cupreus.
                                  Elater minutus.
Elaphrus cupreus.                 Anathrotus ruficaudis.
 Blethisa muhipunctata.
                                                    niger.
                                  Campylis linearis.

                                  Sclasatomus seneus.

                                  Hypnoidus riparius.
                                  Cataphagus obscurus.

                                             marginatum.
                 TRANSACTION* OF THE SECTIONS.                                                    617

Atopa cervina.                        Donacia simplex.
Malthinus biguttatus.                 Galeruca tanaceti.
Cyphon melanurus.
Telephorus bicolor.                                    caprese.
                                      Chrysomela staphylaea.
                   rusticus.
                                                            fastuosa.
                   dispar.            Phaedon vitellina.

                     nigricans.                       Raphani.
                     testaceus.       Coccinella tredecimpunctata.
                                      Helops caraboides.
                   pallidus.          Goerius olens.
Anobium castaneum.                    Creophilus maxillosus.
                                      Staphylinus murinus.
Hypera arator.
Hylobius abietis.                             castanopterus.
Barynotus mercurialis.                        stercorarius.
Merionus obscurus.
                                                           aeneocephalus.
Otiorbynchus tenebricosus.            Ocypus similis.
                                      Quedius tristis.
                         laevigatas,
                      atro-apterus.                  picipennis.
                         ovalis.      Philonthus splendens.

Hylacites gemmatiis.                                    politus.
Strophonomus coryli.
Sciaphilus muricatus.                         varians.
Sitona lineata.
                                      Othius fulgidus.
Phyllobius argentatus.
                  mali.               Gyrohypnus longiceps.
                  reniformis.                             linearis.

                  parvulus ?          Lathrobium lineare.
                  mali, var. 1
                                      Stenus  ?
Rhagium bifasciatum.
Donacia sericea.                      Tachinus rufipes.

                cincta.                       marginellus.

                                      Tachyporus chrysomelinus.
                                      Aleochara concolor ?.

RefMrmeaq. ruAkegsnatsosntihzte.hevadriifofeursenRt ivSeprescieasndofLathkeesGeonfusEuSraolmpeo.  which

                                                                                                     By

   The genus Salmo, as it has been established by Linnaeus and
Artedi, or rather by Rondeletius, has supplied Cuvier with the
type of a peculiar family, in which he has retained the generic
characters of Linnaeus, viz. one dorsal fin with soft rays, and
a second one, which is rudimental and only adipose. Cuvier
places this family in his order Malacopterygii Abdominales,
                 it

                     is
                               a

                                               is
                                                                                            it,
between the Siluridec and the Clupece ; and he subdivides
on just grounds, into great number of generic sections, which
comprehend a vast variety of exotic species. In his work on
the fishes of Brazil the author added several new kinds to those
which Cuvier established; and of opinion that, in the natural

classification,  now absolutely necessary to unite the family
618 FOURTH REPORT-- 1834.

of the Clupece to that of the Salmonidce, since the only differ
ence between them consists in the presence or absence of an
adipose fin, an organ assuredly too insignificant to constitute
the distinctive character betwixt two families, and the less
so as there are some genera of the family which possess it,
whilst in others it is completely wanting, as, for example, in the
Siluridce. We may with equal truth affirm, that all the real
Salmones of Cuvier have not this adipose fin, for in many spe
cies of the genera Sarrasalmus, Myletes, &c., it is composed
of rays which are truly osseous.
                                                                                           it,
                                                                                                  is
Restricted to the limits which Cuvier has assigned to the
genus Salmo comprehends all the species of which the body
somewhat lengthened, the mouth large, and supplied with teeth,
which are conical, pointed, and formidable, implanted into all
the bones of the mouth, that to say, into the interior maxil
lary bones, both superior and inferior, into the vomer andis
palate bones, into the tongue itself, and into the branchialis
arches. The margin of the upper jaw formed by the interior
                                          is
and superior maxillary bones, and constitutes only a single con
tinuous arch, as in the higher classes of animals a conforma
                                              ;

                                                       is
tion which in the class of fishes found only in the Clupece.is
   It also singular that the number of branchial rays seldoma

exactly the same on the opposite sides of the head, the number
varying from ten to twelve. The pectoral and the ventral fins

are of middling size the latter placed about the middle of
the belly, opposite to the dorsal, at their base, and along theiris is
insertion there a fleshy fringe, somewhat similar to the longis
scales which are found on the greater number of the Clupece.
                     ;

                      a
The caudal fin attached to a very fleshy root, and moved
                                                                                           is
by very powerful muscles.                                                                               r
This elastic tial  to these fishes a most powerful lever

when wishing to leap to great height, they strike the surface
of the water with a kind of double stroke. By this means they
overcome obstacles which appear insurmountable, and leap over
nets which are intended to confine them: the most formidable
waterfalls can scarcely arrest them. The several species of this
genus are found in the northern and temperate regions of Eu
rope, Asia, and America.
The fishes of this family are very ravenous, and feed princi
pally upon the larvae of aquatic and other insects and of the
small Crustacea they also devour fishes of a smaller size.
Their alimentary canal short, but the stomach proportion
ally long and strait. At its pyloric extremity may be observed

  great number of appendices, which are connected with the
a

                                           ;

                                          is is
                                                                                       is
pancreas, and to which generally, but erroneously, applied
TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.  619

the name of caecum. The swimming-bladder of all of them is
very large, and opens into the oesophagus near the bottom of
the gullet. Though unable here to enter into the subject
very fully, the author states his persuasion that this organ
ought to be regarded as the lungs of fishes ; that the cir
culation of the blood in these animals has been inaccurately
interpreted when it is supposed that in their heart there may
be traced a pulmonary course ; also, when their branchiae have
been identified with the lungs of other animals ; and, finally,
when their great dorsal artery has been considered as analo
gous to the aorta of the mammalia.

   Most of the varieties of salmon reside in fresh waters ; in
summer they pay a visit to the sea, and do not mount up again
to the rivers, except for the purpose of there depositing their
spawn. It is sufficiently remarkable that most of our species
deposit their ova in November and December, and that the
young fry of course come into existence in the coldest season of
the year. From this circumstance we may suppose that it is
owing to this habit of enduring intense cold in the first days of
their existence, that they can subsequently support all that va
riety of temperature to which they are soon to be exposed.

   In proportion as the genus Salmo is now circumscribed within

its natural limits, so much the more is it difficult to characterize
the various species ; and M. Agassiz affirms without hesita
tion, that since no one has devoted himself to their history, so
no one has yet succeeded in determining, with any degree of
precision, their distinctive characters. The greatest obstacle to
the solution of this problem arises from our ignorance of the
accuracy of the characters hitherto employed to distinguish the
several species the one from the other.

    Naturalists have especially attached themselves to the form
of the head and to the arrangement of the colours ; but these
two particulars are much too variable to supply precise charac
ters. As to the variation in the colour, we may say it is infinite.
There are, however, two circumstances which especially modify
the tints of the salmon tribes, namely, their age and the season of
the year. The younger fish are in general much more spotted
than the older ones, whose tints become more and more uni
form. The Salmo Hucho, for example, with violet spots more
or less distinct, has, when young, large black transverse bands
upon the back down to the middle of its sides. In the second
and third years of its existence these bands break up into black
spots, less deep in colour, and they disappear more and more,
till in its latter years the fish acquires a colour which is almost
uniform. The Salmo lacustris of Linnaeus, when young, has
 620 FOURTH REPORT-- 1834.

 large black and ocellated spots upon all the superior parts of
 its body ; but from the third year they diminish, and ere long
 they entirely disappear.

    The Salmo Umbla, so long as it is young, is of a greenish
 yellow colour, with the abdomen white ; and at a later period of
 life these tints assume a deeper hue of a more lively green, and
 finally pass into a blackish green. The abdomen soon becomes
 silvery white, afterwards yellow and orange coloured, and then
 of a golden lustre. Its flanks are very soon adorned with ocel
 lated yellow spots, more or less distinct ; but ere long there are
 no spots at all. In the Salmo Fario the spots vary even more.
 In the young they are found yellow, green, brown, and even
 black and violet, also black and red ; but at length they all
 entirely disappear.

    The author has also noticed that the seasons have an influ
ence on the colours of the different kinds of Salmo.

   It is during the autumn, and at the time of the greatest cold,

 that is to say in October, November, December, and January,
that their tints are most brilliant, and the colours become more
vivid by the accumulation of a great quantity of coloured pig
ments. We might almost say that these fishes bedeck them
selves in a nuptial garb as birds do. The colour of their flesh
varies according to the nature of their aliment. This family of
fishes feeds, as we have said above, especially upon the larvae

of aquatic insects and of small Crustacea. It is in the waters
which contain the most of these last that the most beautiful

salmon-trout are found. Direct experiments which were made
in lakes have proved, to the author's satisfaction, that the in
tensity of the colour of the flesh arises from the greater or smaller
quantity of Gammarince which they have devoured.

   As to the structure of the head, it offers, in the opercular
bones, in the surface of the cranium, and in its proportions re
lative to the whole body, very excellent characters : but those,
on the other hand, which are taken from the proportional
length and size of the jaw-bones are of no value at all ; the
lower jaw is longer or shorter than the upper according as
the fish opens or shuts its mouth ; and this consideration in
troduced into the characteristics of the family has very con
siderably contributed to multiply the institution of species.
The hook which forms the jaw of the Salmo Salar is not even
a peculiar characteristic of this species, since the full-grown
males of all the species of the genus present a crooked prolon
gation of their lower jaw to a greater or less extent.

   Possessed of these facts, which had been collected with the
most minute and jealous precautions, M. Agassiz tried to deter
TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.  621

mine the various species which are found in the fresh waters
of the Continent, grounding his examination upon the study of
the interior organization and upon the particulars already de
termined which the integuments present concerning the struc
ture of the scales. He has also introduced the shape of the
body and the proportional size of its internal parts as important

accessories to the description of the species. Of these in

vestigations he proposes to give an account in his treatise upon
the fishes of the fresh waters of Central Europe, confining him
self here to a short statement of the results which he has ob

tained.

   It is a very singular fact that those fishes which are the most

widely distributed, and those which are most highly prized,
are precisely those whose natural history is the most perplexed.
The opinions, too, which are most general concerning their
geographical distribution are not at all in unison with the real
state of things. There scarcely exists a country to which some
peculiar species of salmon has not been assigned ; and the
author adds that even in the Regne Animal of Cuvier are many
nominal species, which are not even local varieties, as he pur
poses ere long to demonstrate.

   The cupidity of the fisherman, the rivalry of epicures, and
the fastidiousness of the palate of salmon-eaters, have, without
doubt, contributed to spread these opinions upon the narrow
limit assigned to the haunts of the species of the salmon. There
is especially a famous variety in the annals of epicurism, over
which the greatest possible obscurity has been cast, it is the
Ombre Chevalier, the Char, or Alpine Trout.

   After having attentively examined the Continental varieties,
M. Agassiz with eagerness availed himself of the opportunity
lately afforded him of examining near their native haunts seve
ral species of this genus which are found in England. Through
the kindness of Sir William Jardine and of Mr. Selby, he has
also had an opportunity of examining all those which they have
collected from the Scottish lakes ; and the result has been that
he has succeeded in determining the perfect identity of many
of them with the species found in other countries in Europe,
while, on the other hand, he is convinced by the observations of
these naturalists that there are species peculiar to Scotland.
Nevertheless it is true that systematic authors, from having
allowed themselves to fall into error through the prevailing opi
nions circulated concerning the vast multitude of species of this
genus, have been investigating the characters of a great numr
ber of merely imaginary species. But to the philosophical
naturalist the distinctions upon which they support themselves
 623 FOURTH KKPORT 1834.

in establishing the differences of species are quite insufficient,
and the comparative examination of these pseudo-species admits
of very different results.

   M. Agassiz is convinced that all the fish belonging to this
family on the Continent may be reduced to the six following

 species :

    1. Salmo Umbla, Linn. ; the Char of England; the Ombre
       Chevalier of the Lake of Geneva ; the Rotheli of Swiss
       Germany ; and the Schwarz Reutel of Saltzburg.
           Synonyms : Salmo Salvelinus, Linn. ; Salmo alpinus,
              Linn. ; Salmo salmarinus, Linn., (but not the Salmo
              alpinus of Bloch).

    This fish is found in England and Ireland, in Sweden and
Switzerland, and in all the southern parts of Germany.

    2. The Salmo Fario, Linn.; the Trout of brooks ; Common-
        Trout, Gillaroo- Trout, and Parr.
            Synonyms : Salmo sylvaticus, Schrank ; Salmo alpinus,
               Bloch ; Salmo punctatus, Cuvier ; Salmo marmora-
              tus, Cuvier ; Salmo Erythrinus, Linn.

   It is found as extensively as the first species.
   3. Salmo Trutta, Linn. ; Sea-trout, Salmon-trout. It is

       the same as the Salmo Lemanus of Cuvier, and the Salmo
       albus of Rondeletius.

   4. Salmo lacustris, Linn. The same as the Salmo Illanca
       and the Salmo Schiffermulleri of Bloch.

   Found in the lakes of Lower Austria, and in the Rhine above
Constance.

   5. Salmo Salar, Linn. ; the True Salmon. The Salmo
       hamatus of Cuvier is the old fish, and the Salmo Gadeni
      of Bloch the young fish.

    Found in the northern seas, whence it ascends the rivers
even as far as the Swiss lakes.

   6. Salmo Hucho, Linn.
   Peculiar to the waters of the Danube.

   It results, then, from these observations, that the different
species of the Salmon family, far from being confined within
the narrow limits of some small bodies of fresh water, are, on
the contrary, very widely distributed. They also thrive in all
climates, at least in all elevations above the surface of the

ocean, whether in fresh water or in salt. Nevertheless they
prefer those situations where the water is limpid.

   The author concludes by stating that it is not upon vague
data that he has drawn these several conclusions, but upon the
TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                             62$

actual examination of living specimens of all the species that
have been named, and that he has himself studied them in the
localities where they were caught.

  Dr. Allen Thomson exhibited some specimens of the fol

lowing reptiles :
   Amphiuma means (didactylus of Cuvier), Menopoma (of Har

lan), Menobranchus lateralis, and Proteus anguinus ; and made
some remarks upon the place which these animals and the Ctv-
cilia hold among the other Batrachian reptiles.

   Dr. Thomson then exhibited a few specimens and drawings
of the young of the common Thornback at the period when the
external branchial filaments exist. He described the connexion
of these filaments with the internal gills, and the circulation of
the blood in the single vessel running through each of the
fifteen filaments that project from the side of the neck, which
he had observed in the animal, kept alive for some days.

On the Laryngeal  SaMc .Do.f,  the Reindeer.  By  J.  S.  Traill,

                                F.R.S.E. $c.

   The curious pouch connected with the larynx of the rein
deer was detected by Camper ; but his figure does not convey
any correct idea of the form and position of that membranous
sac. Dr. Traill minutely described this sac, and exhibited
drawings of it when inflated in situ, from which it appears to
have an elongated form, with a blunt, bifid extremity towards the
angle of the jaw, and to taper to a point at the opposite end,
which reached to within 6 or 8 inches of the anterior part of the
sternum. Its length equals 18 inches ; its greatest diameter
about 5£ inches. Its blunt extremity is covered by a delicate
expansion of a pair of muscles, that derive their origin from the
transverse processes of the cervical vertebrae, and from the
horns of the os hyoides. These muscles appear to act as com
pressors of the sac when the animal inclines to expel the air.
The only aperture of the sac communicates with the superior
angle of the thyroid cartilage by an orifice capable of easily
admitting the fore finger. The animal from which these draw
ings were taken was a male, from Norwegian Lapland, dissected
by Dr. Traill in 1822.

On the Ancient Inhabitants of the Andes. By J. B. Pentland.

   The author having offered some observations on the physical
configuration of the Andes of Peru and Bolivia, and on the
distribution of organic life at different elevations on the decli
694 FOURTH REPORT-- 1834.

vity of these gigantic chains, stated the reasons which have led
him to conclude that there existed there at a comparatively
recent period a race of men very different from any of those
now inhabiting our globe, characterized principally by the
anomalous form of the cranium, in which two thirds of the
entire weight of the cerebral mass is placed behind the occi
pital foramen, and in which the bones of the face are very much
elongated. Mr. Pentland entered into details to prove that
this extraordinary form cannot be attributed to pressure or any
external force similar to that still employed by many American
tribes, and adduced in confirmation of this view the opinion of
Cuvier, of Gall, and of many other celebrated naturalists and

anatomists.

   The remains of this race are found in ancient tombs among
the mountains of Peru and Bolivia, and principally in the great
inter-alpine valley of Titicaca, and on the borders of the lake of
the same name. These tombs present very remarkable archi
tectural beauty, and appear not to date beyond seven or eight
centuries before the present period.

   The race of men to which these extraordinary remains be
long, appears to Mr. Pentland to have constituted the inhabi
tants of the elevated regions situated between the 14th and
19th degrees of south latitude before the arrival of the present
Indian population, which, in its physical characters, its customs,
&c, offers many analogies with the Asiatic races of the Old
World.

_ GEOLOGY.

On  the  Geology  of  BAe.rMwi.c,ksFh.ilrle..S.BEy.  David   Milne,  Advocate,
                                                     F.G.S.

   Mr. Milne commenced his paper by describing the bounda
ries of the district he had examined, and for the better illus
tration of which he exhibited a coloured map and sections. The

district in question comprehends the Lammermuir hills on the
north, the valley of the Tweed on the south, and a line drawn
north and south through Melrose on the west. He mentioned,
that there are at least four different formations or groups of
rocks to be found in this district. First, the grauwacke' rocks,
composing the greater part of the Lammermuir hills. Second,
the old red sandstone, which ranges along the base of these hills,
and is found filling up their valleys and burn-courses. Third,
the coal-measures, which, to a certain extent, are distinctly de
veloped, resting on the old red sandstone, and forming the lower
parts of Berwickshire ; and fourthly, the trap, which forms the
       TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                            625

greater number of the isolated hills, that are outliers from the
mountain chain of the Lammermuirs.

   Mr. Milne then described the external appearance or confi
guration of the district as that of an oval-shaped basin, cut
across at the east end by the German Ocean, and the northern
edges of which are the grauwacke' hills, some of which rise
1800 feet above the level of the sea. The country then slopes
down to the valley of the Tweed, and is diversified by a number
of tributary streams, which easily cut and form deep ravines in
the soft clay strata, of which the lower parts of the country are
chiefly composed. Next to the grauwacke' formation, in point
of level, is the old red sandstone group, which ranges along the
base of the Lammermuir, Galawater, and Cheviot hills, and occu

pies perhaps one fifth of the intervening space, between the hills
and the Tweed, but is never visible at a lower level than 200 or
300 feet above the sea, or higher than 900 or 1000 feet above
the sea. The coal-measures and marl strata occupy the west
and lowest parts of the surface of the basin, being cut through
by the Tweed, in its course from Kelso to the sea ; the higher
parts of the river, above Kelso to Jedburgh, displaying sections
of the old red sandstone.
   After this general sketch of the three several deposits of stra
tified rocks in this district, Mr. Milne proceeded to notice the
situation of the trap-rocks, the exact boundaries of which, he
said, it was more difficult to describe ; though it may be re
marked that they occur most abundantly in the grauwacke' and
the old red sandstone series. The traps in these two different
groups also possess very distinct characters, the grauwacke trap
being remarkable for its compactness, and the old red sandstone
trap being of a looser and more friable texture. Almost all the
isolated hills, which diversify the appearance of the upper parts
of Berwickshire, as Cowdenknowes, the Dirringtons, Cockburn

Law, Lamberton, Home Castle, Kyles's Hill, and others of in
ferior note, consist of this less compact trap, and all occur
within the limits of the old red sandstone.
Mr. Milne then entered into a more detailed account of these
different formations, pointing out some circumstances charac
terizing each of them.
   I. The Grauwacke'       Hills. --These  have  been  usually  de

scribed as running from St. Abb's Head across the country to
the Irish Channel. Though this is true as a general remark,
yet, on an examination of these hills in detail, it is found that
a considerable portion of them, perhaps £th or £th, consists of
trap-rocks intermixed. One half of the promontory of St.
Abb's Head consists of trap; and there are few sections in the

1834.                      2s
626 FOURTH REPORT -- 1834.

ravines of the mountain torrents of these hills wherein masses

of trap may not be perceived insinuating themselves, even
among the grauwacke strata, and deriving from them a stratified
appearance. The grauwacke strata, from this cause, have been
dislocated and contorted in a thousand different ways, and there
fore exhibit no uniformity in their dip and direction. But
there is still on the whole, and more particularly in those parts
which have not been disturbed by immediate contiguity to trap,
a tendency to a particular direction or run, viz. from east to
west. The texture of the rock is finely granular, and is gene
rally of a greenish, or sometimes of a yellowish brown colour.
Occasionally it passes into a slate which is quarried for various

purposes.

   No fossils have been found in the grauwacke* rocks, nor any
mineral except copper. There are in several parts of the Lam-
mermuir range, veins of this metal, some of which have been
worked, as at Elmfond, Faseney, and Norton, and run in a di

recItIio.n   very nearly east and west.   descending  from the hills,  is
            The next series of rocks, in

the old red sandstone formation, which rests on the flanks of
the Lammermuirs. They consist of a coarse conglomerate at
their basis, of a slaty sandstone in their central parts, and of
soft beds of unconsolidated sand or clay in their upper parts.
This formation not only flanks the base of the grauwacke*
range, but is found filling all the ravines and valleys of these
hills up to a certain level. The series is one apparently of in
considerable thickness at the sides of the hills where it rests on

them ; but towards the plains, and at a distance from the hills,
it is found to be of great depth. In the upper parts of Lammer-
muir the conglomerate appears to have a thickness of no more
than 10 or 20 feet, whilst on the banks of the Tweed, between

Kelso and Melrose, there are cliffs of conglomerate 80 or 100
feet high. The same remark applies to the sandstones, which

have been deposited over the conglomerate, deep sections of them
being visible on the Tweed, whilst in the upper parts of Lau
derdale they are much more shallow. This fact, Mr. Milne ob
served, could be at once accounted for on the supposition that
these old red sandstone rocks had been deposited in an ocean or
sea which washed the sides of the Lammermuir hills, and in
creased in depth at a distance from them. The grauwacke
strata, on which the conglomerate of this formation has been
deposited, must have formed the bed of that ancient ocean ; and
accordingly, though the conglomerate presents great unevenness
and irregularities in its level, the upper part of the red sand
stone series very nearly occupies one level throughout the whole
                  TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.            627

district, but slopes gradually from the hills. Mr. Milne ob
served that the conglomerate of the old red sandstone is com
posed of fragments, varying in size from small gravel to boul
ders of a foot or two in thickness ; they consist of the same
rocks of which the neighbouring hills are composed, being either
grauwackeV or
predominate.      trap, though the   grauwackd    fragments greatly
                                     have been  completely rounded,
                  All the fragments
as if they had been worn down by the action of water ; not that
they seem to have been transported from a great distance, for
the fragments are now generally either at the very base of the
parent rocks or are in the immediate vicinity of them ; but that
they seem to have been acted on like shingle, or a bank of gra
vel at the foot of a sea-cliff, the pebbles of which have been
worn and smoothed by the incessant motion of the waves.
The fragments are agglutinated together by a cement of small
gravel or sand, hardened by oxide of iron, which gives a red
tinge to the mass ; and wherever the fragments are oblong or
flat, their flat sides are almost always parallel to the line of
stratification.
That these conglomerate rocks were deposited on the grau-
wacke", and from the debris which must have been collected at
the foot of them, is not only the only possible way of explaining
their present situation and appearance, but is proved by sections
at various points where the junction is seen. Mr. Milne then
referred to several drawings of these points of junction.
The conglomerate is overlaid by a deposit of sandstone, which,
as already observed, is thinner near the edge of the deposit than
at greater distances from the hiils. There is one character in
the mineralogical appearance of the rock, besides its red colour
and slaty structure, by which it is everywhere marked, viz. the
occurrence of white or greenish white spots or patches upon its
longitudinal fracture : these white spots do not generally exceed
two inches in diameter, being sometimes oval, but generally very
nearly circular.
The upper part of the old red sandstone formation consists of
beds of red sand and red clay, which are so little consolidated,
that in the part of the country where they are best seen, (viz. be
tween Whiteburn, Greenlaw, and East Gondon,) numbers of
hillocks and rounded knolls have been formed by the effect of

the rains, and the rivulets which now encircle them. In many

places where the formation is less ferruginous, these upper beds

are worked for the sand they yield.
   No fossil remains of any kind have been found in this forma

tion.

Since the deposition of these rocks they have been subjected

                  2 s2
     628 FOURTH REPORT-- 1834.

      to the most violent disturbance and dislocation. Through a great
       many different parts of the red sandstone girdle, flanking the
      hills, the trap is now seen protruding, and bearing, far above the
      rest of the surface of the surrounding country, the red sandstone
      strata on its top or sides.

        At Home Castle, which is built upon basalt, a large quantity

       of the sandstone is seen enveloped in the trap. The whole mass
      of trap here is very considerable, and may be perhaps altogether
       two miles in circumference. Home Castle is about 200 or 250

      feet above the red sandstone plains surrounding it; and very

       near its walls the red sandstone above referred to may be seen
       very highly inclined, leaning upon the basalt. There are various
       other hills of trap, which occur among the old red sandstone

      strata, such as the Dirringtons, Lamberton Hill, Kyles Hill,
      Eildon Hill, &c. The protrusion of these immense masses of

       trap (some of them forming hills 1000 or 1200 feet above the
       level of the sea, and 300 or 400 feet above the surrounding coun
      try,) could not have failed to elevate the district immediately in
       contact with them, and the effect of this elevation must neces
       sarily have been to produce great rents or fissures across the
      strata so elevated and disturbed. Suppose that by the eleva
       tion of Home Castle rock, for example, the red sandstones,
      which were originally horizontal, were pushed upwards so as to
      raise one part several hundred feet above the surrounding coun
      try ; the width of the cracks or rents caused by this elevation,
       and their extent through the country, would, of course, depend
       upon the height to which the strata were raised, and the di
      stance to which the disturbing force operated. But one thing is
       evident, that these rents or fissures would generally run from
       the point of highest elevation or greatest disturbance as a centre ;
      and whilst there the rents would be of considerable width, they
      would gradually diminish in width in proportion to their di
      stance from that centre. This observation is well illustrated by
      what actually occurs in the neighbourhood of Home Castle ; for
      two or three trap-dykes (to be afterwards more particularly de
      scribed) are found to run across the country for several miles from
      that point as a nucleus, this nucleus having served as the source
      or fountain-head to supply the different currents of trap which
      now form the dykes that have filled up these extensive rents.

          These trap-rocks seem to be generally confined to the old red
      sandstone group, and occur more frequently next the edge of
      the group contiguous to the hills than to the one more distant
      from them.

          There are several instances of the lower conglomerate having
      been cut through and hardened by veins of trap j indeed, in one

X
               TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                      629

locality, a mass of conglomerate, about 30 feet thick and 100
yards long, (the breadth unknown,) may be seen resting on the
top of a trap-hill, which has risen up between the grauwacke"
and the old red sandstone. This is near the sea-coast, at a small

village called Burnmouth.
   111. Mr. Milne then proceeded to describe the lowest parts
of the basin, viz. those occupied by rocks decidedly mem
bers of the coal-deposit, from which extensive supplies are ob
tained along the south bank of the Tweed, and also by those
other rocks, of more doubtful character, which some geologists
have considered as new red sandstones.

Mr. Milne here observed, that in speaking of the Berwick
coal-fields, or coal formation which occurs along the south
bank of the Tweed, he only meant to state the fact, that strata
are developed there, having one and all of the distinctive features
of the coal-measures, derived from the mineralogical characters,
as well as the organic remains found in them. These strata
have, however, been described as subordinate members of the
mountain limestone group, and to this opinion he cordially ac
ceded. But his object was merely to state the fact of extensive
deposits of coal, and its usual concomitant rocks, being in that
neighbourhood, when he spoke of them under the convenient
appellation of coal-measures.
   There are on the south bank of the Tweed altogether eight

workable seams of coal, and the collieries extend from near the
shore at Berwick to the river Till, which joins the Tweed about
20 miles from the sea. Those strata, with the rest of the coal-

measures, rise at Berwick, about north-north-west ; but further

inland they rise more and more decidedly to the westward ; and

near the Till, where they are not far from the Cheviot hills,
they rise nearly due west. In short, they appear to lie con
formably to the belt of old red sandstone, which winds along
the foot of the Lammermuir and Cheviot ranges, and rise always
to the hills nearest to them.

   These coal-seams vary in thickness from 2£ feet to 5£ feet,
and are worked so extensively as to supply with fuel not only
the district of Northumberland and Durham wherein they occur,
               greater part of Berwickshire
but also the   the same coal-deposit that    and  Roxburghshire.  for
                                             all  the lime used
   It is from

agricultural purposes is procured.

   It is hardly necessary to add that the sandstones, limestones,
and shales, accompanying the coal which is worked south of
the Tweed, contain all the fossil remains usually characteristic of
a coal-deposit. Crinoidea with the Productu, Spin/era, Modi-
ola, and other marine shells are abundant, whilst the Eqnhela
6o0 FOURTH REPORT-- 1834.

cece, Filices,  and similar plants, are easily   distinguishable  in the
impressions     visible on the sandstones and                     these
                                                shales. It is by
limestones that the remarkable foldings are exhibited, which do
not occur in the strata of shale lying above and below them.
These foldings are seen at Berwick and at Scremerston on the

shore.
These coal-measures cross the Tweed, and are observable in
the lower parts of Berwickshire. But the only members of
them there indubitably belonging to the formation are the
sandstones and a few shales. The rest of the formation, of more

doubtful character, consists of thick beds of argillaceous blue

clay, and strata of marl and sandstone, slightly impregnated with

calcareous matter.

The thick beds of sandstone of decidedly carboniferous cha
racter are dark red, white, and yellowish, as usually occurs in
coal-fields, and the same beds or strata may be traced running

through the country for many miles. All the freestone quar
ries in Berwickshire are worked in these carboniferous strata,
which are sometimes 50 or 80 feet in thickness. These sand

stones are filled with all the impressions of vegetable remains
usual in coal-fields, and no difference of any sort can be ob
served between them and the sandstones of the Mid Lothian

deposits.
    On some of the beds of shale found on the banks of the Tweed,

not far below Coldstream, impressions of marine shells are
abundant, which seem to be of the genus Modiola.

   Mr. Milne here also mentioned that on the north side of the
Tweed, along the sea-coast, these coal-measures are accompanied
not merely by the characteristic limestone, but also by three
seams of workable coal. These coal-seams may be traced along
the coast from Scremerston and Berwick, and are undoubtedly
a continuation of the seams which occur there. But they form
a narrow belt along the coast, and at length disappear under the
German Ocean, at a point where the trap of Lamberton Hill
projects into the sea, and throws up the coal-measures, not only
on their edges, but so as to form an obtuse angle with the hori
zontal basis of the hill. About thirty years ago these three seams
of coal were worked on several parts of the Berwickshire coast,
and the proprietor has lately again advertized them to be let.

   Mr. Milne then came to describe those other deposits of
doubtful character, which some have considered as of more re

cent origin, and belonging to the new red sandstone series.
Mr. Milne described them as consisting generally of blue clay
beds, and their marl strata, the latter being generally of a
lightish brown, sometimes a yellowish colour. The ordinary
                      TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.

dip and deviation of the strata are like those of all the other
strata towards the hills; and though, in particular localities, they
do not lie altogether conformably to the coal-measures, yet, on
the whole, they may be said to be conformable ; and in some
places, as will immediately be seen, they are actually overlaid

by the coal-measures. In these beds of soft blue clay numer
ous strata of sandstone are seen, but not of any great thickness
or running to any extent. They are commonly wedge-shaped,
and thin away to nothing. These imbedded masses of sand
stone very commonly contain, nay, sometimes are entirely com
posed of, accumulations of small conglomerate, containing num
bers of pebbles, vegetable impressions, and even fossil remains,
in curious and                                   This    conglomerate not
unfrequently is       interesting confusion.             in the latter kind
                      highly ferruginous.     It was
that Lord Greenock discovered an entire tooth and the remains
of others. This tooth has been described in the Edinburgh

Philosophical Journal. It was sent to London, and submitted
to the inspection of Mr. Clift ; but Dr. Grant has since more
                      and particularly its internal parts, which
minutely examined     it,
                               it

                                                  is
were not seen by Mr. Clift, and he decidedly of opinion that
            tooth of  the Lophius                        or sea devil,
ittouse     his own   words, that  p"ischaatsorbieuesn,  preserved to                                                     and further,
   it is                                                                                                                  us precisely

         a
as fell from the jaw upon the loose sand."
    Besides these imbedded sandstones there is, in this marl for

mation, yellowish calcareous and cellular rock, which has all
            a

the appearance and many of the properties of magnesian lime
stone. This rock seen on the banks of the Tweed, princi
                      is

                           :

                                   is
pally  near    Coldstream the strata are thin, none of them exceed
ing a  foot
               in thickness. It not, however, only on the banks
of the Tweed that this mineral has been found
                                                                                                                          associated
                                                         ;

                                                            it

                                                                 is
                                                                      is
                                                                            a
in a beautifully crystallized state with the Scremerston seam
of coal worked near Berwick, and even in some parts blended
with the coal so as to render the latter impure, and in great
measure unfit for sale. This limestone has been analysed, and,
out of 100 parts, found to contain 50 of carbonate of lime, 44
of magnesia, of silica, and 1*2 of peroxide of iron. The spe
cimen analysed was from Birgham Haugh. In beds of dark4

blue clay or shale, immediately in the vicinity of these strata of
magnesian limestone, nodules of iron ore occur, though far less
pure and genuine than generally occurs in the coal-fields.
    Another mineral of occasional occurrence in the marl-forma

tion gypsum. There are three kinds, red and white gypsum
    is

                                                                                                                       ;
in veins intersecting the clay beds of blue marl and selenite,
which fills up the cracks and interstices of the marl beds, where
they are exposed to the air.
632 KOOKTH REPORT -- 1834.

  ofThe red gypsum occurs in irregular masses, from the size

a walnut to 3 or 4 feet in diameter. The white is in thin veins,
not always, but generally in the same beds with the red gyp
sum ; and whenever they come in contact, the thin white vein is
invariably cut off and intercepted by nodules of the red, which
has therefore been the more recently formed. Although gyp
sum occurs in abundance in this district, no rock-salt in a mi
neral state has been found : but several springs are known in
it which contain a considerable quantity of salt ; for example,
on an analysis of well-water at the Manse of Eccles, out of 87
parts, 57 were found to be sulphate of lime, and 30 of common
salt ; and in the mineral water of Dunse Spa (also within the
limits of the marl group), as analysed a number of years ago by
Dr. F. Home, a large proportion of common salt was found.
   Vegetable fossils have been found among the marl -bed3 form
ing very extensive deposits. At three or four several localities
large trees have been discovered, in beds of blue clay, in a petri
fied state. The trunks vary in size from a few inches to several
feet in diameter ; but none have yet been discovered of any
length : indeed, none exceed 3 or 4 feet, and they have generally
the appearance of having been transported from some distance,
being rounded at the ends. These trees have been converted
into a hard calcareous rock, which does not always assume the
itshape and size of the tree enveloped in
                                         but generally a
             by
                                         by

                                                                it,
                                                                          is
little larger, and on being broken presents an accumulation of
small twigs and branches of trees, which are found to be of the
same species as the imbedded trunks. These fossils have been
all ascertained to belong to the genus Coniferce.
These fossil trees are always covered or skinned over by a
coaly matter, which seems to have been the original bark, and
which has been occasionally found nearly one inch thick.
The internal parts of those fossils have not been so entirely
           the intrusion of calcareous matter as to have lost
displaced
all their woody structure. On the contrary, specimens are con
stantly met with in which the branch or trunk displays all the
concentric rings formed    the annual growths. The original
resinous matter of the tree has been seen oozing or exuding
from its interior fibres.
Many of the trees have been flattened, and flattened so en
tirely as to show that the whole of the interior parts have been,
as were, squeezed out, whilst the bark above has been pre
served, of course in a state of coal, and now appearing as thin
seams of lignite in the beds of clay.
Besides these deposits of trees in the beds of clay, there are
numberless impressions of vegetables in the marl-strata very
          TRANSACTIONS OK THE SUCTIONS.        633

similar to those found in coal-fields. The plants are entirely
flattened, some of the impressions             those of small branches,
and of very delicate structure.     bIetingis   manifest that if these

plants have not actually grown in the places where they are now
found, they could not have been transported far, from the small
degree of injury which they appear to have sustained. In some
cases impressions of leaves have been found.
   The animal remains found in a fossil state are very few. In
addition to the fish's tooth already noticed as having been found
in the sandstone conglomerates of Tweed banks, there are a few
shells of a minute character which appear to be the Teredo, the
Serpula, and Modiola, and which occur not only in these con
glomerates but also in marl-strata, clearly contemporaneous
with it.
   As to the position of these marl-strata, in respect to their
dipping under or overlying the coal-measures, Mr. Milne stated
that there are two or three localities where these are distinctly
seen to be covered by the coal-measures. In particular, one
locality on the sea-coast was mentioned where these marl-beds
and the coal-measures are found in contact, and where the

genuine character of these respective strata is placed beyond
all doubt by the occurrence of gypsum in the one and of seams

of coal in the other. A section is there well exposed, showing
the contact of the coal-measures and marl-strata, the latter ma

nifestly lying beneath the coal-measures.
   Mr. Milne alluded to the opinions of several distinguished
geologists, that the marl-rocks which he had just been descri
bing belonged to an epoch more recent than the mountain lime
stones or carboniferous group ; and there was no doubt that
they have many of the characters of the true marls or new red
sandstone formation. But the nature of the fossils found in it,as
well as the fact of its being seen dipping under the coal-mea

sures, Mr. Milne stated, had led him to consider the formations

as subordinate to them, and deposited nearly under the same
circumstances. These circumstances were, the prevalence of the
same sea and a similar climate, as proved by the occurrence of
the same marine shells in both kinds of strata. One distinction

between them might be the unconsolidated condition of the
calcareous deposits on the north of the Tweed, as compared
with the compact limestones on the south of the Tweed ; and
also the absence of the larger marine shells and corallines from
these marl-beds, and the occurrence in them of deposits of
trunks of fossil trees and branches, which have not been often

found in the same uncompressed state in the coal-measures. Whe
ther or not these data would justify the impression that the sea,
634  FOURTH UEPORT -- 1834.

ut the bottom of which these marl-strata were formed, was not of
 the same depth as that part of the ocean where the thick beds
of limestone south of the Tweed have been deposited, he did not
venture to say. But Mr. Milne remarked that it was a confir
 mation of this view, that the same fossil trees which are found

 in the marl-beds do not occur further south, as they would not
 probably be drifted very far from the shores whereon they grew.
 Besides, it is well known that currents and eddies at the bottom
 of the sea are more frequent along the coast and the mouths of
 large rivers than at a distance from land ; so that the same
 cause might serve to explain the formation of those wedge-
 shaped sandstone strata in the thick beds of clay and marl fre
 quent on the banks of the Tweed, as well as the gravelly conglo
 merates, where are seen mixed up together not only fragments
of various rocks, but vegetables, small shells, and fishes' teeth.

    Another deposit derived from the marl strata just described
 consists of lacustrine deposits of shell-marl. There are several
of these worked on account of the calcareous matter which they
afford, to be spread over the land for agricultural purposes. On
the estate of Kimmergham near Dunse, (the property of James
Bonar, Esq.,) there is a mass of this nature about seven acres
in extent. There is at the surface a covering of peat, which,
in some places, is ten feet deep. Below this there are two beds
of white calcareous marl filled with minute shells, the beds
being separated by a stratum of blue clay. Each of the beds of
marl is about six feet in thickness. The shells found in them seem
to be of exactly the same genera as those found by Mr. Lyell
in the lacustrine deposits of Forfarshire, the Planorbis, L,ym-
n<ca, &c. In addition to these shells, remains of the beaver,
and of a large species of deer, were some years ago discovered
in this bog. The remains of the beaver, it is believed, are now
in the museum. A specimen of the horns found in the moss
was exhibited, together with portions of the marl, containing
multitudes of minute shells.

   In the parish of Merton, where a shell-marl moss of 100 acres
occurs, horns of the same species of deer were found, as well as
the remains of beavers. These horns were pronounced by Sir

Humphry Davy to belong to an extinct species.

   IV. The only remaining formation in the district is the trap,

which in Berwickshire, as in most other districts, may be di
vided into three kinds, according to the epochs at which it was

successively ejected.
    1. The older trap occurs, as has been already mentioned, not

only in large amorphous masses among the grauwacke strata,
but also occasionally alternating with these rocks, and assuming
                  TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.       635

their regular stratified appearance. An example of the strati
fied trap may be seen at Fassney Water, (a locality described
by Professor Playfair,) and on the north face of Soutra, about

200 yards east from the London road. In these places it has
all the appearance     of sienite,  both from    its
intermixture of red   felspar and   hornblende.       hardness and the

                                                      It is hardly neces
sary to add that these sienitic and other trap strata, which ap
pear in this stratified form, have acquired that condition from
the grauwacke' strata, between which they have been pushed up
in a manner similar to what occurs in Salisbury Crags ; and the
like effect as is there seen has been produced upon the grau
wacke rocks, which are greatly hardened, and even made to as
sume so crystalline an appearance as to render it difficult to find
the exact line of division.

    2.  The trap  of  St. Abb's Head belongs to a more recent pe
riod.                 traced, except for a very short interval, occu
         It may   be

pied by grauwack^, southwards along the coast, to a point where

it is found enveloping the conglomerate of the old red sand

stone. On this part of the coast the conglomerate may be seen
in vertical beds, and at another point, viz. at Eyemouth Har
bour, in immense horizontal masses, resting on the trap, and
dipping, at a small angle, into the sea. Here copper is found
in the trap in great abundance, not in the form of veins, but
in small nodules, which, by oxidizing on exposure to the air,
give a curious appearance to the surface of the rock, which is
in consequence speckled over with green patches.

   To the same epoch may be referred the eruption of most of
the trap-hills of Berwickshire ; those at least which have pro
truded through the old red sandstones, some of which, as, for
example, the Eildon Hills, are about 1300 feet above the level
of the sea.

   There are trap-dykes which traverse the red clay beds and
sandstones of this formation, some of which run from Home
Castle, and in which numerous red crystals occur. Some of
these crystals are of that red colour and jasper appearance as

to lead to the opinion that the trap had occasionally taken up
some particles of the adjacent red strata and jaspidified them.
These dykes abound also with large crystals of glassy green

felspar.

   This old red sandstone trap is of various textures, from the
crystalline basalt to the friable and almost vesicular tufa which

is seen on the outskirts of the trap-hills. It sometimes also

occurs as a soft breccia or conglomerate, the imbedded portions
being manifestly derived from the rocks or soil among which it

had flowed. In one locality the conglomerate consists of very
636 FOURTH REPORT-- 1834.

small pebbles or gravel, which are agglutinated together by a
tufaceous paste or mud, having exactly the appearance of a
stream of hardened lava. This occurs in the middle of the

old red sandstone formation, on the banks of the Whitadder,
north-west of Dunse.

3. There are a few examples of trap ejected after the deposi
tion of the coal-measures, which in consequence are greatly

disturbed in its neighbourhood. The whole of Lamberton Hill
(near the sea coast) is an example of this, the coal-measures
which run along its base for about four miles on the shore being
now seen not only vertical, but even inverted to a considerable
extent. The trap here has risen up, and is so extensive as to

have upraised not merely the coal-measures on the one side,
but the grauwacke- on the other, and completely obliterated the
old red sandstone group at this point, the only trace of it left
being a patch of conglomerate on the top of the hill.

   A few miles to the south of Berwick there is another mass
of trap, which forms the Kyloe hills, and from which a dyke
runs fifteen miles in a straight line towards Home Castle rock.

In the Tweed below Coldstream it thins out to nothing. The
dyke is a light-coloured greenstone. It varies in width, though
generally speaking it is broader near the Kyloe hills than at
its further extremity.
The usual effects of trap in hardening the strata with which
it is in contact, are observable in this dyke and in those previ

ously described.

   In some places there has been a slight overflow of the trap-
dyke into the softer strata in contact with                          as, for example,
a it isthe shales and coal, which could less easily resist the lateral
                                                it,pressure of the confined current.

                                                                    a
There do not, however, appear, at any of the localities where
the dyke and the sedimentary rocks are seen in contact, to have
been any other changes effected on them. They are in no case
turned up on their edges, or altered in their general bearings.
But the case widely different with the trap-hills, all of which
have, wherever they are in contact with the trap, upraised the
adjoining rocks. This difference between the effect of trap-hills
and the effect of dykes may be explained by supposing that
they were merely currents of trap, which flowed into fractures
or rents previously existing across the country, caused, per
haps, by the elevation of particular points by masses of trap
which have been pressed up from below. Such rent was very
likely to be produced by the elevation of the Kyloe hills, and
the direction took would naturally be towards some other
point where similar disturbing and rending force existed.
TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.  637

Kyloe dyke was traced by Mr. Milne for about fifteen miles in a
direct line, towards the trap-hills of Home Castle. May not the
consideration just stated account for the direction of this dyke ?

   Another circumstance was noticed by Mr. Milne as a pro
bable effect of the trap upon the incumbent strata, viz., the oc
currence of indurated clay-beds, and even of chert, in the im
mediate vicinity of it. At Carham there are thick beds of a
coarse gritty limestone, which contain abundance of quartz, of
a dusky brown and red colour. These beds of limestone are
themselves of a whitish cream colour ; and much indurated clay,
of the same colour, occasionally a little tinged with green or
red, accompanies them. These strata rest upon a porphyry,
which is in some places amygdaloidal, containing small grains
of quartz tinged with green earth.

    Near Dunse the same chert is again seen, but in strata of cal
careous sandstone, which are of about the same thickness as
the limestone beds at Carham. They are here also immediately

incumbent on trap. At Newton Dony, at Marchmont, at Pres

ton, and at Berwick the same indurated marls have been found,
which are sometimes so compact as to have been mistaken and
burned for limestone ; but which proved to be only marls har
dened by their contact with, or vicinity to trap.

   The only other subject to which Mr. Milne adverted was the
changes which appear to have been produced on the surface
of the district, and on its elevation above the level of the sea,
at successive periods.

    Mr. Milne described at least four apparent elevations of the
land at successive periods : 1st, The elevation by which the
grauwacke" strata were upraised ; 2ndly, The elevation by which
the old red sandstones were made to emerge from the waters
wherein they were deposited; 3dly, The elevation which con
verted the marine strata of the coal-measures, or mountain
limestone of Northumberland, into dry land ; and, 4thly, a still
more recent elevation, the precise epoch of which has not yet
been exactly determined.

   It may, perhaps, throw light on the causes of these succes

sive elevations to remember, that at the time when these for

mations were respectively disturbed and elevated, trap-rocks
appear to have risen up, which at each successive outburst
most probably acted, not merely upon the particular group of
rocks among which they now protrude, but on the whole
district of country including the grauwacke' range. These out
bursts of ancient lava would most probably, like the cones on
the sides of a volcanic mountain, take place laterally, where the
resistance would be less than directly among and through the
638 FOURTH REPORT 1834.

grauwacke" hills ; and thus it is that after the ejection of the
old red sandstone trap, along the sides and base of the grau
wacke' range, the more recent eruptions are more distant from
the hills, and among the more modern deposits of coal-mea
sures. But still, these succesive upheavings of trap, though
they have found an outlet among the softer rocks, may have
increased the elevation of the grauwacke' at different periods,
without there                                                        any visible eruption
of trap among  being     on    these occasions                      a confirmation of this
               these   hills.
                                 It is perhaps
remark, that the old red sandstone conglomerate, which was of
course originally at the same general level along the base of
the grauwacke" range, is now 800 and 900 feet higher in the
western parts of;      than at the sea-coast, and the rise most
                              ;                                     it

                           is it,                                       is
                                                ;
                                             it                            it
                                                     is
                                                                                 is

                                                                                               ;

                                                                                                 is
remarkably uniform and regular on proceeding inland from the

coast. At the sea-shore, as already stated, the conglomerate is
lifted upon the top of the trap,                       and dipping into the sea.                   About
two miles inland (at Foulden)                             about 150 feet above the
                                                                                                   sea; --
                                                       of the Tweed,
at   old  Melrose, in the  valley                       the hills,    480    300 feet              above
the                        nearer                                                                  Dod's
     sea   --at Greenlaw,                                                  feet -- at
Mill, near Spottiswoode, 500 feet above the sea; -- at Norton, in
Lauderdale, 540 feet -- at Carfrae Mill, still nearer the central
range, 640 feet -- and at the foot of Soutra Hill, on both sides of
the ridge, (which probably about 28 miles from the sea,) be
tween 820 and 890 feet above its level.

Since, however, the elevation of the country at these succes
sive periods, corresponding to the three kinds of trap now visi
ble in the district, there seems to have been fourth, though
admitted that this fact                                               a
                                                                                          is

                                                                                              it
is is                                              more problematical, and                           sup

    a
               is
                                         a

                                               is
ported by indications of a less decisive character. The vertical

coal-measures at the foot of Lamberton Hill, along the sea-coast,
have seen described. Immediately south of Burnmouth there
     tract of table-land, now about 100 feet above the level of

the sea, which extends between the beach and the base of the
hill. It in shape triangle, the base of which runs along
the foot of Lamberton Hill for about                                mile, and the two sides
                                                         1^-
form the present sea-cliffs for about 3-J miles                               extent. This
                                                                       is in
table-land consists of thevertical strata, which run parallel with
the base, and are seen at the two sides of the triangle, at the sea

shore, running right across the table-land. It not a little cu
rious that these vertical strata should all have had their edges
worn down to horizontal and level plain, just as would have
          is

                 if a
been the case the rocks had been exposed to the action of
marine currents incessantly sweeping over their edges. When
the tide far out, exactly the same appearance
                                                                              is  presented

by the vertical rocks, which form the bottom of the shore,
         TRANSACTIONS OF TUB SECTIONS.                              63d

for a considerable distance out from the existing cliffs ; and
were there to be an elevation of the coast, we should have

another table- land, formed of vertical strata, with their edges
worn down to a nearly horizontal level, like the table-land,
at present about 100 feet above the level of the sea.

   Perhaps, connected with this very recent elevation of the
coast, may be some extensive rents and fissures in the land vi
sible near St. Abb's Head, and particularly on the north side of
it about Dunglass.

 j One of the most perceptible of these fissures runs for about

1 mile from the Siccar Point past the ruins of a church called
St. Helen's, and towards the valley of the Pease bridge, where

the rent is nearly 150 feet deep. In the part of its course first

described, the valley is perfectly dry, and there are no symptoms
of any rivulet having ever run in it. The strata of grauwacke
are here and there nearly vertical, and form a smooth unbroken
wall for several hundred yards, on both sides of the valley,
which has been formed by the sundering, or separating, or slip
ping of the strata from off each other.

    Similar rents are seen at Cockburnspath and at St. Abb's
Head, some of which are about 180 feet deep, and have small
rivulets running at the bottom of them (which are too insigni
ficant to have cut through these hard strata to such a depth) ;
but some of them are so shaped that they never could have had
rivulets running in them at all.

   This district bears upon its front the well-marked symptoms
of diluvial action. Large boulders of mica-slate, and every va
riety of trap are found buried in the alluvial strata on the
banks of the Tweed, as well as at the foot of the hills ; and the
hills are most generally devoid of vegetation, and bared to the
rock upon their south-western flanks. This is particularly the
case with Home Castle rock, Cowdenknowes, Stitchel, Bemer-

side, and others of less note.

   A good deal of red soil is found scattered over localities, and

even among the grauwacke hills, where alone it could have
been brought and deposited by a flood, which swept the red
sandstones of Roxburghshire, and, as it were, painted the south
 front of the Lammermuirs with a vermilion edge, to mark the
 force and direction of its waters.

On  the  Coal-fiGelrdeseonfoSccokt,laFn.dR. .S.BEy.  Major-General  Lord
                                                      F.G.S.

                                           [With a Plate.]

  It is more than forty years since Dr. Ure published his

History of the Parishes of Rutherglen and Kilbride, in which
fi40 FOURTH REPORT -- 1834.

he noticed the discovery of organic remains either of some

species of large fishes or of Saurian reptiles in the coal-fields of

the West of Scotland : since that period new facts of a similar
nature have been brought to light in the coal-districts of Clack
mannanshire, Fifeshire, and the Lothians, as well as near Glas

gow, showing that these remains are not confined to particular
localities, but that they are very generally distributed through
out the whole extent of the coal-formation in the great valley of

the Scottish lowlands.
The specimens that accompany this paper were found in the
bituminous shale or blaes which lies immediately above, and in
contact with, what is called the Jewel coal, in Sir John Hope's
coal-works at Stoney Hill near Musselburgh. These organic re
mains appear to abound in all the pits where thenar seams are
worked in the Mid Lothian coal-field ; they have also been ob
served in the edge seams, at the Edmonstone Colliery, in the
same coal-field, and at Dguart in Fifeshire.
The Jewel coal is the lowestof what are usually termed the flat
seams, and that of Edmonstone the highest of the edge seams ;
but whether these remains may be most abundant in that part
of the series, or whether they are equally distributed through
the whole, is a question that must be determined by further in
vestigation. The observations which the author has hitherto had
opportunities of making lead him at present to believe that this

will be found to become more rare, if they do not entirely dis

appear, as they descend in the series, and approach the lime
stone containing marine shells and Encrinites, although their
reappearance in such vast abundance in an inferior portion at
BuIrtdime aHyobueseneisceasscairrycuhmesretantoceenxoptlaeinasitlhyatto       accounted for.
                                                                          be  flat seams are
                                                                         the

merely the upper beds, five in number, which, being nearer to

the surface, are comparatively more level than the edge seams,
or those which, occupying an inferior position in the series, dip
down to a greater depth in the basin, and are consequently seen,
at the places where they are worked, to stand at a much higher

angle; but it has now been ascertained that the flat seams,
where they have been met with in this coal-field, are in every

respect conformable to the edge seams.
The flat seams contain the most valuable coals in the district ;
but they occur only partially in the Mid Lothian coal-field, as
they are not to be found to the southward and westward of
the road from Edinburgh to Dalkeith, having, it is said, been
thrown off by a dyke near Sherriff Hall, beyond which some of

the edge seams appear to have been brought up and flattened.
These are worked as flat coals at the Dalhauria, Polton, and

Eldon collieries.
                  TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.  641

Mr. Bald, in giving a section of the edge seams, estimates the
total depth of the coal strata in the basin to be at least 500 fa
thoms, and that the aggregate amount of the thickness of the
whole of the seams of coal, twenty-six in number, is 109 feet

6 inches.

Although the Firth of Forth is generally considered to be the
northern termination of the Edinburgh coal-fields, there appear
to be sufficient reasons to warrant the supposition that the coal-
district on the opposite coast of Fifeshire was originally a part
of the same deposit. That the coal strata do extend across the
water is evidently shown both by the circumstance of their be
ing worked near Wemyss Castle, 300 yards beneath the bed of
the river, and their outcrop being seen on both sides of the
Forth beyond the low-water mark, as well as at Inchkeith,
which is situated in the middle of the channel ; at the same time
it must be confessed, that with the knowledge we possess re
specting them it would be very difficult to prove their exact
correspondence, either by their lines of bearing or by the qua
lity of the coals : but when all the disturbances by which they
are known to have been affected on both sides of the Forth are
taken into consideration, it will not appear improbable that the
same causes may have operated, even in a still greater degree,
to produce similar derangements and dislocations in those parts
that are now concealed beneath the water, which might suffi
ciently account for any alteration that may be observed in their
appearance when they emerge from it on either shore.
    The upburst of the trap hills that surround Edinburgh,
which, from the occurrence of glance coal, and other appearances
observable in them, we may with great probability suppose to
have taken place after the deposition and consolidation of the
coal series, may very possibly have obliterated many beds of
coal that might have previously existed where they now
stand, and have variously affected all the others within reach of
their influence.

   On the other side of the water we see, by the plan accom
panying Mr. Landale's reports on that district, that the coal
strata meet with so much interruption from trap dykes, that
instead of proceeding to any distance on their regular lines of
bearing, the greater part of them have been deflected to the
eastward, and take directions nearly parallel to the line of the
coast.
It appears also from the same authority that the number of
coal beds, and the total thickness of the coal in them, in the
Fife district, is very nearly the same as in the Edinburgh coal
tdistrict, according to the accounts given of it by Mr. Eald, viz.
1834.             2
642 FOURTH REPORT -- 1834.

           Fifeshire District.                             Edinburgh District.

         29 beds of coal.                                     26 beds.
                                                             109 feet.
        119 feet 6 inches.

The two seams of coal, the workings of which have lately been
resumed on the estate of Captain Boswell at Wardie, have ap
parently been thrown out of their natural position by some dis
turbance : they rise from the beach near that place in a saddle
form, having on the east side an inclination of one in seven, and
dipping to the west at an angle of one in fourteen. The coal is
said to be of caking quality, which is rarely met with in these
coal-fields : one of the Dunnshire seams, marked No. 25. in
iMnrt.hLeaFnidfeasleh'isrpeladni,staripcpte. arsIttoisbea            coal of this description
                                                           the only  coal, and of the same
                                                            smith's

thickness as the upper bed at Wardie ; but it would not be easy

to trace any other connexion between them, although the coal
of Wardie evidently extends across the firth to the opposite

coast.
The nodules of ironstone, of which there is a great abundance
in the bituminous shale of Wardie, are very remarkable j for
scarcely one is to be found that does not contain an organic
nucleus, either a coprolite or some portion of a fossil fish. Si
milar nodules, containing the same remains, have been also ob
served on the opposite shore and at Inchkeith.
   The specimens of coprolites and fossil fishes which were ex

hibited by Mr. Trevelyan at the Cambridge Meeting, were from
this locality, and additional specimens were now produced.

On the Ossiferous Beds contained                           in the Basins of the Forth,
             the Clyde, and the Tay.                       By Dr. Hibbert.

    The author pointed out, in a general manner, the order of suc
cession observed by the beds which were deposited later than the
primary and transition schists. These were the peculiar grey mi
caceous sandstone, principally to be found on the north of the
Tay, known by the name of the Arbroath pavement ; the red
sandstone, into which the Arbroath pavement passes ; and the
stupendous masses of conglomerate materials, formed by rolled
fragments of primary and transition rocks, which repose at the

foot of the Grampians. It was incidently stated that, near

Cratown, the conglomerate strata were traversed by a trap rock,
containing large crystals of glassy felspar, which gave to it the
exact character of one of the modern trachytes of the Sieben-
gebirge. The conglomerate rocks were supposed to have been
formed at two distinct epochs. The author expressed a sus
TRANSACTIONS OP THK SECTIONS.  043

picion that certain patches of sandstone, occurring both on the
east and west coast of Scotland, might be considered as new red

sandstone.

   That the grauwacke" schist and its associate beds of limestone
contain organic remains, has not yet been shown. The author
exhibited a specimen of the Arbroath pavement containing ve
getables, and he stated that Mr. Lindsay Carnegie of Kimbleth-
mont in Angus had presented to the College Museum some
striking specimens of remains inclosed in the Arbroath pave
ment, one of which appeared to belong to a crustaceous animal.

   But it was shown that organic remains had been most abun
dantly found in the carboniferous group, characteristic of the
basins of the Forth and the Clyde, which the author had pre
viously described at the meetings of the Royal Society of Edin
burgh. Certain limestones for instance, namely those of Bur-
diehouse, East Calder, Burntisland, &c., which he conceived to
be of freshwater origin, and belonging to the lower members
of the carboniferous group, severally contain both vegetable and
animal remains.

   The limestone of Kirkton, near Bathgate, is remarkable for
its mammillated and ribboned structure ; which last peculiarity
is produced by thin layers of pure flinty matter alternating
with other distinct layers, which are severally calcareous, ar-
gillacous, or bituminous. This rock has a striking resemblance
to the tertiary limestones of Auvergne, which exhibit a similar
character where they come in contact with volcanic eruptions ;
and hence, as the limestone of Kirkton alternates with tufa,
and is in the immediate neighbourhood of trap-rocks, it pro
bably owes its peculiar geological character to similar circum
stances. This limestone contains numerous plants, as well as
the remains of a most remarkable crustaceous animal, a nearly
complete specimen of which the author was enabled to exhibit
to the Meeting, through the kindness of Dr. Simpson of Bath
gate, into whose possession the relic had fallen. The author
remarked, that a larger head of the same animal had been de
scribed by Dr. Scholer; but as this naturalist had unfor
tunately not seen the extremity of the animal, the description
was of necessity imperfect*.

    * Incidental to this notice, Mr. Smith of Jordan-hill, near Glasgow, exhibited
 to the Society the more perfect head of the animal described by Dr. Scholer.
 And Mr. Jameson Torrie placed in Dr. Hibbert's hands a memoir just published
by Dr. Harlan of America, in which fossil remains are figured of a similar
character, but of the diminutive size of five inches only. The generic name of
 Euryplerus has been given to the American specimen. Dr. Hibbert announced
 that drawings, accompanied by a description of this singular animal, would be
 shortly published.

                                             2 T2
G44 FOURTH REPORT -- 1834.

    The limestone quarry of Burdiehouse was very briefly de
scribed, as many details regarding it have already been published
by the author. This limestone is a very deep-seated bed in the
carboniferous series. Above it are alternating beds of sand

stone, shale, and thin seams of coal. A limestone contain

ing marine shells and corallines follows, while the whole is
surmounted by the coal-measures of Loanhead. The Burdie
house limestone incloses a variety of plants, minute Entomo-
straca (among which there appears to be a Cypris), various un-
described fish, the bones of gigantic animals, large scales, and
coprolites. Among the bones are pointed teeth of the extraor
dinary length of three inches and three quarters, and of the width
of one inch and a half at their base, which resemble those of
Saurian reptiles. These teeth are adorned with a most beau
tiful brown enamel, as well as the large scales which are so
plentifully found in the quarry. There were also exhibited some
bony rays of the extraordinary length of fifteen inches, which
must have belonged to an immense fish.

   The author announced that all the relics of fish hitherto dis
covered at Burdiehouse would be submitted to the inspection

of M. Agassiz, who, in the invaluable work on fossil ichthyology
which he was publishing, promised to fill up, with the success of

a Cuvier, this great blank in natural history*.

On      the  Geological  J.StSru. cTturraeillo,f  the Orkney  Islands.  By

                                                  M.D.

   The geological character of these islands is very simple ; the
whole group, with the exception of a small granitic district near
Stromness, consisting of rocks belonging to the old red sand
         formation. The prevailing rock                                of sandstone
stone   much charged with argillaceous            misatatesr.peciIets  occurs in di
flag,
stinct strata, usually slightly inclined, which form hills of but
small elevation, but often present very magnificent cliffs around

the coasts. It has a colour varying from pale greenish to
blackish grey. It has a slaty structure, and readily splits into

layers, the thickest of which form a very durable building-stone,
as the remains of very ancient Scandinavian edificies attest ;
while the thinnest form excellent flags, or even a tolerable roof

ing-slate. It is in this slaty rock that the fossil fishes are found.
It occasionally contains bitumen, so as in a few places, espe
cially in the islet of Rushholm, to approach to bituminous

«hale.

   · Dr. Hibbert likewise displayed the teeth and other relics of a large fish,
which he had recently discovered in the black limestone of Ashford,-in Derby
shire,
TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.  645

    Connected with the sandstone flag we find thick beds of com

mon sandstone, of a yellowish or tile-red colour. It forms the
chief part of the mountains of Hoy, the highest point in Ork
ney ; and also several headlands in Pomona and in Edey. In

the vicinity of the red sandstone we occasionally find the strati
fied flag assuming a higher inclination.

   Last year Dr. Traill discovered a thicker bed of basalt in the
sandstone of Hoy ; and there are many veins of basalt and
greenstone traversing the slaty rocks, particularly in Shapin-
shey, and in that part of Pomona where the fossil fishes are

found. It may not be unworthy of notice, that the general di

rection of these last trap veins is towards that part of Hoy in
which the bed of basalt occurs.

   Granite exists in Orkney only in one district. It constitutes

a chain of moderate hills, running from the southern boundary
of the township of Yesnaby, in a south-east direction, to Strom-
ness ; occupying a length of about six miles, with a breadth
varying from one to half a mile. The granite again appears on
the north side of the small island of Graemsey ; but the slaty
rock is interposed between it and the mountains of Hoy. This

granite is close-grained, contains much felspar, and often ap
proaches to gneiss in structure.

    The granite is everywhere in immediate contact with a coarse
conglomerate, consisting of nodules of quartz, and fragments of
granite and sandstone, imbedded in an arenaceous base. The
junction of these rocks is well seen at the western end of
Graemsey, on the shore at Stromness, and in the burn of Cairs-
ton. The conglomerate is of small extent, almost immediately
passing into sandstone flag. Both the granite and the conglo
merate bear a striking resemblance to the prevailing rocks on
the eastern side of Sutherland and the south of Caithness ;
and the sandstone flag of Orkney is so exactly similar to the
slaty rock of the latter county, which also contains fossil fishes,
that it is impossible to resist the conclusion, that these rocks
belong to the same geological epoch. The researches of Messrs.
Sedgwick and Murchison have proved that the Caithness flag
is a member of the old red sandstone ; repeated observations,
and an examination of most of the Orkney Islands, have con
vinced Dr. Traill that the sandstone and sandstone flag of that
group ought to be referred to the same formation. In no part
of these islands did he discover any traces of a coal formation,
unless, with some geologists, we are to consider the slaty rock
charged with bitumen as the lowest bed of that deposit ; for
certainly no vestige of its other more important members exists
in Orkney.
646 FOURTH REPORT 1834.

    Fossil Fishes. -- Dr. Traill exhibited many specimens of the
fossil fishes discovered in the slaty flag of Orkney. They are
reported to occur in several parts of that group of islands ; but
Dr. Traill only saw them near Smaill in Pomona, about two
miles from the northern extremity of the granitic chain. They
occur in a quarry about 100 feet above the level of the sea. The
quarry is covered by 3 feet of soil and debris ; then we find
from 9 to 11 feet of solid strata of flag: but no fish appear
until we reach the two lowest beds, which are together about
2 feet in thickness. The uppermost chiefly contains fishes, of
a flattened form, with a granular skin : which appear to be
long to the family Raja. One of these measured 15 inches in
length, of which the tail was 6, and the greatest breadth of the
body 6 inches. Unfortunately the specimens of these, which
Dr. Traill had collected, never reached Edinburgh. The lowest
bed of the quarry abounds most with fishes, and from it almost
all the specimens exhibited were extracted. These fishes, in a
high state of preservation, were carefully examined by the distin
guished naturalist M. Agassiz, who detected among them eight
distinct species, five of which were quite new to him, and even
belonged to three new genera. M. Agassiz considers the spe
cies of the fish to indicate that the rock in which they occur is of
an era prior to the coal formation. The only trace of vegetable
remains observed in that quarry was a single leaf of some mono-
cotyledonous plant, resembling that of a reed or a Carina. Be
low the fish slate a shining rock occurs, which contains no or

ganic remains.

Professor Jameson exhibited a fossilfish, the Cephalaspis of
Agassiz, which he had found in the old red sandstone (Forfar
shire) several years ago, long after he had determined that the
sandstone of Caithness, Orkney, Shetland, and of the whole
tracts of country  on the east and west of Scotland were of the
same geognostical
                   age.-- Mr. Blackadder exhibited a fossil fish
from Glammis millstone quarry in the same district.

       On the Fossil Fishes of Scotland. By M. Agassiz.
   The high geological antiquity of the greater part of the stra

tified mountains of Scotland gives a peculiar interest to the in
vestigation of their organic remains ; as they lead us to the
knowledge of the condition of our planet at a period in regard
to which we possess only a few insulated fragments of informa
tion. The mollusca, zoophytes, &c. of these formations have
been examined by many, but the remains of vertebrate animals
TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.  647

have been but little investigated ; and of fishes, we are acquainted
with those only which have been described and figured by
Messrs. Sedgwick and Murchison, and which have also been
noticed by Cuvier and Pentland. The occurrence of a large
number of these was known, but no particular information as to

their nature was communicated. For a long period M. Agassiz

has been anxious to have an opportunity of examining these in
teresting fossils, and this has been afforded him by the meet
ing of the British Association at Edinburgh.

   The collections which have afforded him the most important
materials are the following : That of the Royal Society, which,
through the unwearied exertions of the Secretary, Mr. Robinson,
contains many remarkable remains from Burdiehouse; Dr.
Traill's collection, containing many interesting fishes from Ork
ney ; Lord Greenock's extensive series of ichthyolites from the

coal formation, and especially from Newhaven. In Professor

Jameson's possession is a large head of a fish from the old red
sandstone of Forfarshire, of which Messrs. Murchison and Sedg

wick have shown M. Agassiz a less perfect specimen, but one
which exhibits the other parts of the body. Mr. Torrie sub

mitted to his examination an extensive collection of fossil fishes
from Caithness, similar to those described by Messrs. Sedgwick
and Murchison ; and also some fishes from Gamrie, first noticed

by Mr. Murchison, who also described their geological position.
   Of the fossil fishes not from Scotland which he has seen on

the present occasion, he will take another opportunity to speak.
   As to the determination of the Scottish fishes he remarks

generally, that they all belong to two orders of the class, viz.
some to the order of Placoidian Fishes, Agass. {Cartilaginece,
Cuv.) ; but the larger number to the division Ganoidian Fishes,
Agass., and two to the section Heterocerci, in which the upper
lobe in the caudal fin is longer than the lower.

   In the old red sandstone there are two species from Glammis,

Forfarshire, viz. one species of the genus Cephalaspis (Gano
idian), which has hitherto been found in this formation only.
The most remarkable characters of this genus are the shield
like covering of the head, which is prolonged backwards in the
form of two horns as in the Trilobites, and the manner in which
the eyes are placed near each other on the head. The other
species belongs probably to the genus Hybodus (Placoidian), but
of this only an ichthyodorulite has been seen.

    The fishes from Caithness and Orkney approach one another
most nearly ; though amongst the latter there are several new
genera, and in all eight species. Those from Caithness seem to
 648 FOURTH REPORT-- 1834.

 belong to two species only. Amongst the Orkney fishes there

 are two very remarkable genera, resembling the Acanthodes of
 the coal formation, also having very small scales ; but the new
 Cheiracanthus is furnished with a spine in the pectoral fin only,
 and the other, the Cheirolepis, instead of having the spine, is
 provided with a row of small scales. M. Agassiz has been con

 vinced by the examination of many specimens that the genus
 Dipterus has two dorsal fins and two anal fins, which sometimes
 are opposite one another and sometimes alternate ; and these
 are types of two genera, the Diplopterus and the Pleiopterus.

    The fishes from Burdiehouse are also very numerous ; in their
 characters they agree with those of the coal formation, but are
 more removed from those of Saarbriick than are the remains
found at Newhaven.

    The most remarkable amongst them is an animal which, from
 the structure of its teeth, might be considered as a reptile, and
 which must have been of very considerable dimensions ; but
which, from its skeleton and its scales, is decidedly a fish. This
animal forms a new genus under the name Megalichthys, and
confirms the opinion formerly expressed, that we observe in
older deposits organic remains which, with the usual characters
of their family, unite the characters of the types which have
made their appearance at a more recent period. Unfortunately,
no perfect specimen of the Megalichthys has been found, and
it has not been possible to bring together all the different parts
of the skeleton. Another new genus, related to the Arnblypte-
rus, has a long dorsal fin extending beyond the ventral fin and
the anal fin, and may be named the Euronotus. The other
species belong to the genera Pygopterus and Amblypterus.
Very large ichthyodorulites occur not unfrequently, and seem to
belong to the genus llybodus.*

   At Newhaven eight species occur, of which some bear a con

siderable resemblance to the fossil fishes of Saarbriick, though
still distinguished from them by some characters. They belong
to the genera Pygopterus, Amblypterus, and Palceoniscus ; and
there is one species which will in all probability form a new

            as it differs considerably from the genus Acrolepis.
fe'lnaucso,idian fishes are also found, but only in fragments, so that
their specific characters have not been determined; and there

   · M, Agassiz was led by the specimens which he subsequently examined at
Leeds, to consider the larger relics of Burdiehouse as belonging to two large
animals instead of one. The large scales and the long bones are referred by
him to Plammolipu, while the large teeth and round scales are supposed to be
long to the animal he has named Megalichthys Hibberli.
TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                                  649

are two other species, of which small traces only have been ob

tained.

   In the coal formation of Fifeshire a new specimen of Palaco-

niscus has been found.

   M. Agassiz remarks that it may appear strange that he should

consider the Gamrie fossil fishes as belonging to the coal for
mation, but they seem to be so nearly related to that deposit
that he cannot regard them as of much more recent origin. There

are three species, namely, one Cheir acanthus, one PaltBoniscus,

and athird, of which perfect specimenshavenot yet been obtained.
   From this short notice it must be evident how important the

study of the fossil fishes of Scotland is for advancing our know
ledge of the beings which existed before the oolitic period,
and how much we may yet expect from future careful investi
gations.

On the Geology of the Pentland Hills. By C. Maclaren.

These hills are about fifteen miles in length and from three to
six in breadth. The fundamental rock is transition slate, accom
panied by grauwacke" in vertical strata, which are covered un-

conformably by conglomerate and various felspar and claystone
porphyries, in beds dipping to the south-east, at angles varying
from 10° to 35°. Beds of conglomerate, alternating with grau
wacke, abound in the western part ; in the eastern, the grau
wacke" is accompanied
                        chiefly by felspar, claystone porphyries,
and amygdaloids. A     vast mass of sandstone forms the termi

nation of the chain on the west, and rises to the height of nearly
1800 feet in the two Cairn Hills. The age of the hills, or the
period of their elevation, is indicated by the position of the secon
dary rocks on their flanks. The sandstone of the Cairn Hills in
clines against the transition rocks, at a considerable angle, on the
north side, and at Craigintarrie appears in beds almost vertical.
On the south side the older strata of the coal formation are found
at various places, in a position highly inclined or vertical, while
a newer portion of the same series is found in horizontal beds,
or dipping in towards the    hills at a
position with the former.                low   angle, and in   juxta
                             It follows  that   the elevation  of the

transition rocks took place at a period subsequent to the depo
sition of the older, but previous to the deposition of the newer,
part of the coal formation.
650 FOURTH REPORT -- 1834.

Account of the central Portion of the great Mountain llange
oTwf etheed.SouBthy  of  SMcoatlcagndil,livinrawyh.ich  arise  the  Sources  of the
                     W.

    The mountains forming the most elevated part of this range are
 situated in the parishes of Tweedsmuir, Megget, and Mannor,
 which form the southern and south-eastern parts of the inland
 county of Peebles, and are continuous with the high land form
 ing the celebrated pastoral districts of Yarrow and Ettrick in
Selkirkshire, and with the higher parts of the parish of Moffat in
 Dumfries. The region is composed of uniform, smooth, round
 ed hills of grauwacke", scarcely ever precipitous or even abrupt,
 clothed to the summits with Juncece, Cyperaceee, grasses, heath,
and pasture plants, and separated into groups or ridges by long,
narrow, straight valleys, which, although generally green, sel
dom present any natural wood, even along the clear streams that
flow into the valley of the Tweed. Whitecoon, Hartfell, and
other mountains, were described, and the alpine plants observed
on them enumerated, with the view of contrasting this region
with the Grampian range. An account was also given of the
vegetation of the clenchs or ravines. The Tweed was then fol
lowed from its sources to Peebles, and finally to the mouths
of the Gala and Ettrick, in the whole of which space the rocks
are composed of grauwacke", grauwack^-slate, clay-slate, slate-
clay, and occasional small beds of limestone, none of which,
however, are wrought. The districts of Yarrow and Ettrick,
which are of precisely similar geological structure, were then
described, with reference to their scenery, vegetation, and ani
mal productions.

    Perhaps few districts in Scotland, of equal extent, present less
varied geological phaenomena than that which contains the
sources of the Tweed. The general direction of the strata is
from south-west to north-east; they are usually highly inclined,
but present every degree of inclination : the general dip is to
the north-west. The composition of the grauwacke exhibits

considerable variety.

   In form, the hills approximate in a considerable degree to
many of the granite masses of Aberdeenshire, but they never
present the precipices and corries, which characterize the more
elevated of the latter. The whole district, with its rounded,
smooth, sloped mountains, connected in elongated heaps, its
long, narrow, straight, or slightly tortuous valleys, its argilla
ceous and pebbly soil, its clear and rapid streams, and its grassy
vegetation, with the absence of natural and the scarceness of
             TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                         651

planted wood, forms a strong contrast with the mountainous
districts of the middle and northern divisions of Scotland, in
which peaked and serrated and ridgy mountains, with precipices
and corries, rugged and winding valleys, slopes covered with
debris, and patched with heath and bracken, brown or limpid
streams fringed with birch and alder, rivers and lakes with ca
taracts and islands, dark forests of pines and thickets of briars,
still give interest to the ancient land of the Gael.

   The object of this paper was principally to show the pro
priety of taking the geology, botany, and zoology of a district
in connexion with each other.

Notice       oGf etohleogLicimalesCtoomnemiottfeeC. loseBbyurnC,.  in reply to a Query  of
        the
                                                                   G. S. Menteath.

   The limestone quarry at Closeburn is situated in a small valley,
surrounded by hills of transition rocks and under thick beds of
the old sandstone formation. There are two beds of limestone
in this deposit, separated by beds of stone eighteen feet thick,
chiefly argillaceous, with some calcareous matter in their com
position. The upper bed of limestone is 14 feet thick, and
from the analysis made of it by the late Dr. Murray, contains 40
per cent, of magnesia, 57 of carbonate of lime, and 3 of iron.
The lower bed of limestone is 18 feet thick, and contains 88 per
cent, of carbonate of lime, the remainder being clay and sand,
with a few grains of iron. The upper part of this bed consists
of hard compact limestone, of a reddish colour, 9 feet thick ;
then 4 feet of thin beds not more than 6 inches thick, between
which are interspersed thin layers of a kind of stone marl, con
taining 10 per cent, of carbonate of lime, with impressions of
shells; the remaining 5 feet consist of laminae of a more red
colour, and contain organic remains of Orthoceras, Ammonites,
and shells of the Producta of a larger size than are found in any
other quarry in Scotland.

    The limestone deposit at Closeburn is situated in one of the
small valleys of the mountain chain running across the island
from the German Ocean to the Irish Sea ; no similar deposit of
limestone has as yet been recognised elsewhere in this chain of
hills.

   Notice of the Flints of Aberdeenshire. By Dr. Knight.

   Dr. Knight read a notice on the flints found in various parts
of Aberdeenshire, and more especially in the vicinity of Peter
head. He particularized the fossils found in them, and exhibited
an interesting series of specimens.
652 FOURTH REPORT 1834.

On the Old Red Sandstone and the Formations beneath it. By
                     R. I. Murchison, F.R.S. Sfc.

   Mr. Murchison presented a tabular view of the order of suc
cession of various undescribed formations of great thickness,
and distinct from each other in their organic remains and mi-
neralogical characters, which rise from beneath the old red
sandstone of England and Wales. He then dwelt upon certain
remains of fishes which he had traced through the central divi
sion of the old red sandstone of England and Wales, over an area
exceeding 3000 square miles. The most striking of these fishes
(Cephalaspis, Agassiz,) it now appears is common to the central
portion of the old red sandstone of England and strata oc
cupying the same geological position in Forfarshire and other
counties in Scotland. Mr. Murchison further expressed his
opinion that the Arbroath pavement is the equivalent of the tile-
stones or lower member of the old red sandstone of England.
Mr. Murchison stated that Dr. Lloyd of Ludlow was the person
who first called his attention to the fishes of the old red sand
stone of Salop.

On the Change of LeBvyelCo. fLtyheeLlla, nFd.Ran.Sd. Sea in Scandinavia.

   Mr. Lyell prefaced his statement with a brief sketch of the
state of the controversy touching the gradual rise of Scandinavia,
at the time of his visiting that country. It was more than a
hundred years since the Swedish naturalist Celsius had declared
his opinion that the level of the waters, both of the Baltic and
the ocean, was suffering a gradual depression.

   In confirmation of this pheenomenon, Celsius had appealed to
several distinct classes of proofs : 1st, The testimony of the in
habitants on the northern shores of the Gulf of Bothnia, that
towns formerly sea-ports were then far inland, and that the sea
was still constantly leaving dry new tracts of land along its bor
ders ; 2ndly, The testimony of the same inhabitants, that various
insulated rocks in the Gulf of Bothnia, and on some parts of the
eastern shores of Sweden, then rose higher above the level of
the sea than they remembered them to have done in their youth;
3rdly, That marks had been cut on the fixed rocks on the shore
some thirty years or more before, to point out the level at which
the waters of the Baltic formerly stood when not raised by the
winds to an unusual height, and that these marks already indi
cated a sinking of the waters. On the whole, Celsius concluded
               TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.  653

that the rate of depression amounted to three or four feet in a
hundred years. To this conclusion it was objected that there
were many parts of the Baltic where the level of the sea had not
fallen, as could be proved by ancient pines and castles standing
               water's edge,  and other natural and artificial monu
close to  the  was remarked   that the new accessions of land were
ments.
           It
chiefly where rivers entered the sea, and where new sedimentary
deposits were forming ; and that the marks were not to be de
pended upon, because the level of the sea fluctuated in conse
quence of the action of the wind.
Von Buch, in the course of his tour in Sweden and Norway,
about twenty-five years ago, found at several places on the
western shores of Scandinavia deposits of sand and mud con
taining numerous shells referable to species now living in the
neighbouring ocean. From this circumstance, and from accounts
which he received from inhabitants of the coasts of the Both-
nian Gulf, he inferred that Celsius was correct in regard to a
gradual change of relative level. As the sea cannot sink in one
place without falling everywhere, Von Buch concluded that cer
tain parts of Sweden and Finland were slowly and insensibly
rising. Mr. Lyell, together with Von Hoff and others, still
continued to entertain doubts with regard to the reality of this
phaenomenon, partly on grounds stated by former writers and
above enumerated, partly because Sweden and Norway have
been, within the times of history, very free from violent earth
quakes, and because the elevation was said to take place not
suddenly and by starts, according to the analogy of the inter
mittent action of earthquakes and volcanos, but slowly, con

stantly, and insensibly.

   Mr. Lyell visited some part of the shores of the Bothnian
Gulf between Stockholm and Gefle, and of the western coast

of Sweden between Uddevala and Gothenburg, districts parti
cularly alluded to by Celsius. He examined several of the marks
cut by the Swedish pilots under the direction of the Swedish
Academy of Sciences in 1820, and found the level of the Baltic
in calm weather several inches below the marks. He also found
the level of the waters several feet below marks made seventy or
a hundred years before. He obtained similar results on the
side of the ocean ; and found in both districts that the testimony
of the inhabitants agreed exactly with that of their ancestors re
corded by Celsius. After confirming the accounts given by Von
Buch of the occurrence on this side of the ocean, of elevated
beds of recent shells at various heights, from 10 to 200 feet,
Mr. Lyell added that he had also discovered deposits on the
side of the Bothnian Gulf, between Stockholm and Gefle, con
654            FOURTH REPORT -- 1834.

taining fossil shells of the same species which now characterize
the brackish waters of that sea. These occur at various eleva
tions of from 1 to 100 feet, and sometimes reach 50 miles inland.
The shells are partly marine and partly fluviatile : the marine
species are identical with those now living in the ocean, but are

dwarfish in size, and never attain the average dimensions of

those which live in waters sufficiently salt to enable them to
reach their full development. Mr. Lyell concluded by declar
ing his belief that certain parts of Sweden are undergoing a gra
dual rise to the amount of two or three feet in a century, while
other parts visited by him, further to the south, appear to ex
perience no movement.

On   Marine  Shells of recent  Species, at considerable       elevations,
             near Preston.
                               By W. Gilbertson.

   The situation of these fossils is in the county of Lancaster,
betwixt the Lune and the Mersey : the greatest elevation at
which they have yet been found is 350 feet above the sea, in the

excavations made by the Preston Water Company at the foot of
Longridge Fell.

   The shells are interesting, as being of the same species as
those now found on our shores ; and showing, therefore, that
this elevation has taken place since the creation of existing
species : and the stations and roads of the Romans being upon
this deposit, prove that there has been no change in the form
of existing species during the period that has elapsed since they
occupied this country.

Notices in reply to a Question proposed by the Geological
             tFah.etRCN.Sao.mn-Gbmr.ieSdt.ga,ellP,ifreoarfoseusstsoorJothoienf tGsReeoilnalotgRioyoncsikns.KoifnBgMy'sinJoeChronal-l
Committee
Veins and

Phillips,

lege, London.                                                 iaabA

    The author states that his attention was first drawn to the
special investigation of the direction and other characters of the
joints of rocks, during an examination of the upper slate system
of Westmoreland and Yorkshire in 1823*, and again excited by
observations on the magnesian limestone of the North of En
gland in 1828f. Since that period he has at different times ga
thered additional facts on the subject by investigations among

     · Tramactiom of the Geological Society, vol. iii. p. 1.

     t Phil. Mag. and Annals, vol. iv. (1828.) p. 401.
TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.  655

the oolitic, coal, and mountain limestone strata, in the latter of
which he has endeavoured to ascertain what relation of direc
tion, intersection, width, and other characters there may be be
tween joints and mineral veins.

   Geologists have in general given little attention to the joints
in stratified and especially secondary rocks, though the structure
which they impart to these rocks is often quite as remarkable
and characteristic as that derived from the stratification. In
most instances they cause in rocks of a given mineralogical cha
racter a definite figure of the separable blocks ; as the prisms
of basalt, the tables of slate, the rhomboidal masses of shale,
the cuboidal blocks of limestone : they are often arranged with'
so much regularity as to assume some of the leading features of
symmetrical crystallization. There are several kinds of joints.

    1. Cracks, which are usually confined within the substance
of one bed of stone, and appear to have been caused internally

by the process of condensation of the mass. Some of these,

called by the workmen dry cracks, though scarcely visible to
the eye, open with slight blows, and often display on their faces
dendritical oxide of iron, or oxide of manganese. The width of
the space left between the opposite faces of a crack varies in
some ratio to the nature of the rock ; thus in some septariate
ironstone beds and nodules they are very wide, in certain lime
stones almost evanescent. Some of them are empty, others
filled with carbonate of lime, quartz, and other substances,
and in particular places with sulphuret of lead, carbonate of

copper, &c.

   That the cracks have been produced since the deposition of
the rock is easily proved, for they divide imbedded shells, plants,
fishes, &c. ; in conglomerate rocks also they are found to divide
the rolled masses, as at Oban and in the Righi, where veins of
quartz filling cracks traverse many different sorts of pebbles.

   2. Joints which go through one bed of stone, or even through
several of the conformable beds of the same quality, in several

directions, dividing them into blocks of characteristic forms.
    3. Fissures traverse a great variety of strata, though of very

different quality, as limestone, shale, sandstone, and coal ; these
are often termed backs, or slines ; they, as well as the other
joints, are of great importance to quarrymen and miners ; they
materially influence the lines of the escarpments of rocks along
hill-sides and valleys, the direction of streams, &c.

   In some rocks, e. g. magnesian limestone, they are open for

great lengths and depths, or filled with clay and pebbles, intro
duced from the surface : in the oolite and mountain limestone
they exhibit every gradation of sparry repletion from a few cry
65G  FOURTH REPORT 1834.

stals on the walls to a solid mass of fibrous or lamellar carbonate
of lime occupying the whole cavity, and occasionally interspersed
with metallic substances.

   In passing through different sorts of rocks, the fissures pre
serve nearly the same inclination from the vertical, but their
breadth and regularity are very unequal. The same fissure
which in limestone is open, or filled with spar to some inches'

width, may be reduced to a mere divisional plane in the alter
nating shales : the fissures in coarse sandstone are irregular,
those in fine shale possessed of almost crystalline symmetry.

   Viewed upon a horizontal plane, the fissures and joints almost
always, except in greatly deranged masses of rocks, appear to
follow definite directions ; so as by their mutual intersections
to dissect the area into compartments, of which the figure varies
according to the nature of the rock. This variation appears
principally due to the joints, for the great lines of fissure hold
nearly the same courses throughout. The joints usually ter
minate in the fissures ; these last are of unequal extent, some
being more persistent than others, so as to deserve the title of

master fissures.

   In slate rocks of the North of England there are often several
sets of joints, besides the cleavage, which are more or less di
stinct and continuous ; some of them vertical, others inclined at
considerable angles, and passing in different directions, remind
ing us of the various intersections of the Cornish veins. In the
Craven slates the most constant of all the divisional planes is
that of cleavage which ranges W.N.W. and E.S.E., having a
variable dip to the S.S.W. or N.N.E. ; it is crossed by vertical
joints ranging nearly N. and S.

   In the mountain limestone tracts also, the great fissures are
in general parallel to one or other of two lines : they either
range nearly E. and W., or W. of N. and E. of S. ; of these
directions the latter is perhaps the most predominant. Fissures
in other directions are indeed often noticed, but they are of less

importance.

   In the magnesian limestone of Yorkshire the directions of
the principal and most continuous fissures are from E. to W-
and from N. to S. : the same is the case with some parts of the

oolitic ranges on the north of the Vale of Pickering.
    The author concludes, from actual observation, that throughout

the greatest part of Yorkshire north of the Aire and Wharfe,
the most continuous fissures are nearly vertical, and range either
E. and W. or nearly so, or a little W. of N. and E. of S.
The tract of country thus defined connects itself on the north
with the mountain limestone districts of Durham, Cumber
       TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.  657

land, and Northumberland, as far as the valley of the South
Tyne; so as to constitute one great elevated geological area,
bounded on the north by a dislocation, varying in amount from

600 to 1200 and 2000 feet, which ranges in general E. and W.;
on the west by the great Cross Fell fault, of at least 3000 or 4000
feet, ranging S. by E., from Brampton to near Kirby Lonsdale;

and on the south by the double Craven fault, of 1000 to 3000

feet, which goes to the E.S.E.
   Within this area numerous mineral veins are found, princi

pally running E. and W., or parallel to the northern boundary,
comparatively few productive veins being found passingN.and S.,
though dislocations and rock dykes of importance, and a great
proportion of the leading fissures, take the direction N.N.W.,
which is nearly parallel to the great Cross Fell fault.

   This east and west tendency of the veins is conspicuous in all
the northern mining tracts of the Tyne, Wear, Tees, and Swale ;
it is less predominant in the southern mining fields in Wharf-
dale and Niddersdale, which are near to the E.S.E. fault in
Craven. That fault is remarkable for its double line of disloca

tion ; and for the coincidence of its direction with the most con
tinuous divisional planes of the slate, with one parallel dyke of
greenstone, and one or more bands (veins) of pyritous slate.

    There is therefore in this great tract of country a clear gene
ral analogy in direction between the lines of convulsive move
ments, mineral veins, and open or sparry fissures. The fissures,
joints, and cracks often display in their contents, and circum
stances of arrangement, a close affinity to metalliferous veins ;
and the whole investigation appears to indicate among them all
a common and fundamental relation. Professor Phillips is of
opinion that the definite direction of the joints and fissures is
one of the facts to be most attended to in a theoretical point of
view, since it appears extremely probable that this character
of joints is the primary phenomenon which, by presenting

lines of least resistance to the disturbing forces concerned, has

permitted the dislocations to follow certain principal parallels.
The agencies whereby not only the slip veins, but often the un
disturbed fissures, joints, cracks, and hollows in rocks, and
insulated cavities in shells, have received their metallic or sparry
contents, constitute a really distinct branch of inquiry, though
it is already evident that the solution of either problem cannot
be effected without unfolding common principles of symmetrical
aggregation, and chemical and electrical action not yet familiar
to geologists.

1834.  2u

                                                                      s
Go8  FOURTH REPORT-- 1834.

On some Caverns containing Bones, near the Giant's Causeway.

            By James Bryce, Jun., M.A., F.G.S. Sfc.

    The author was made acquainted with the existence of these
caves by Dr. M'Donnell of Belfast, in the beginning of August
last. As he was ignorant of comparative anatomy, he requested
Dr. Scouler, Professor of Mineralogy and Geology in the Royal
Dublin Society, to join him in an examination of the caves.
The following facts are the result of the joint observation of
Dr. Scouler and the author.

   Only three caves on the north-east of Ireland have been yet
found to contain bones ; they are situated in the immediate vi
cinity of Ballintoy, about 5 miles from the Giant's Causeway ;
one of them a few perches west of a small bay or creek called
the Port of Ballintoy, another about 50 perches further east,
and the third in Carrickarede Island. At the first-mentioned
place a trap dyke traverses a chalk cliff of about 40 feet in
height ; the entrance to the cave is in this dyke at the base of
the cliff: the direction of the dyke is soon crossed by the cave,
which is afterwards entirely in the chalk. The mouth of the
cave is about 10 feet above high water, and 4 perches distant
from the line to which it generally advances. A ridge of co
lumnar basalt which runs along the coast protects this bay from
the fury of the waves, and it seems impossible in the present
state of the surface that the highest tides could flow into it.
Persons living in the neighbourhood assert that the tide has
not risen so high within their memory. The cave consists of
two chambers, separated from one another and from the entrance
by low and narrow passages, which admit the body of a man
with difficulty. Beyond the inner and larger chamber, which
is 7 feet high and 6 wide, one of these passages extends to an
unknown distance. The floor of the cave, particularly in the
two chambers, is covered with loose masses of chalk, chalk flints,
and trap, of various sizes, intermixed with sand and white gravel,
the latter consisting of chalk and flint. The sides and roof and
many parts of the floor are covered with incrustations of sta
lactite and stalagmite, which in some cases meet and form co
lumns. The bones occur loosely among these stones, or im
bedded in the sand and gravel at the depth of 3 or 4 feet; they
are often cemented together by stalagmite, or along with other
substances form a conglomerate with a stalagmitic base. There
were found bones of the horse, ox, deer, sheep, and perhaps
goat ; otter, water-rat, cod-fish, and of several birds. The
bones were always detached, and never lying together so as to
form an entire skeleton of an individual.
TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                                                659

   The second cave is in a chalk cliff terminating a small bay
called Pait-Dhu, whose sides are so steep in all parts as to
prevent the descent of most quadrupeds. At the entrance the
cave is about 12 feet high and 9 wide, the floor being on the
level of the water. The tide has thrown up a shingle bank,
which nearly blocks up the mouth, and prevents the entrance of
the sea at present, though there are indications that it has not
been long excluded : there was no termination found to the cave,
but after 120 feet it is low and narrow. The bones met with

belonged to the horse, ox, sheep and goat, deer, dog, badger,
pigeon, cormorant, and gull ; they were dispersed, as in the
former cave, over the floor, which was of similar composition.

A very interesting conglomerate, of recent origin,was found here

in loose masses ; it consisted of rolled pieces of chalk, flint,
trap, and bits of opal, and sometimes included bones.
The cave that remains to be noticed occurs on the north

west side of Carrickarede Island, which consists entirely of
amygdaloid and greenstone. The high cliffs which form the

shore near the cave being constantly washed by the sea, the
cave is quite inaccessible from the land : from the sea it is only

to be entered at low water in calm weather. At other times
a heavy surf breaks into it, so that a visit to it is attended with
some danger, and the risk of being detained several days.
The floor ascends a little from the entrance, so that in ordinary
tides the water does not rise far into it. For nearly fifty yards
from the mouth it preserves a width of 70 feet, and a height of
40 or 50 : beyond this its dimensions are very much con

tracted. It probably goes nearly quite through the island. The

floor is of the same structure as before, except that chalk,

flint, and stalagmitic incrustations are less frequent than in the

other caves. A black mould, apparently of vegetable origin,
is in some places inters tratified with the sand. Bones of the
following animals were found : horse, ox, deer, sheep, dog,

cod-fish, skate, wolf-fish. A white greasy substance, like de
                              was found
comItpoisseddiffbicounlet ,  to account   in  some places among the   sand.  de
                                         for  the formation of these  bone

posits : few of the bones bear the marks of attrition, and none of
them marks of gnawing. All the caves are inaccessible to most
of the animals named ; it is therefore most probable that the

bones of the tame animals were introduced by man, who may
have made these caverns a place of refuge, while some of the
wild animals may have lived and died where we now find their
remains : in confirmation of which it will be recollected that
Carrickarede cave afforded no bones of wild animals. Some of
the bones may doubtless have been washed in by the waves.
                                         2 v2
G60                 FOURTH REPORT 1834.

It is worthy of remark that no bones of the hog were found ;

which seems to show that the animal did not exist in the coun
try when the remains were introduced into the caves.

On some   Caves in the Island  ofRathlin and     the adjoining Coast
          County of Antrim.       By Thomas
  of the                                         Andrews, of Tri
nity College, Dublin.

Of these caves six were examined by the author, viz. four in
Rathlin, one in the rock called Carrick-a-rede, and one in the
mainland near Ballintoy. In a cave in Rathlin, a thick layer
of sea sand containing marine shells was found beneath the sta
lagmite, near the termination of the cave ; and in another cave
a different variety of water-worn sandstones was discovered in
a similar situation, but no trace of shells could be seen. In an

other large cave at Rathlin, a rude piece of antiquity formed of
iron and resembling the handle of a sword, was found quite close
to the skeleton of a sheep. The length of the Rathlin caves varied
                    feet ; the dimensions in     other respects
from 150 to 250     seems obvious from these     circumstances,  were
                                                                 from
very different. It
the position of the entrances to some of the caves and the nar
rowness of those of others, 1st, that many of the animals could
not have entered them in their present position and state ; 2nd,

that the sea must have formerly entered them at a much higher

relative elevation than its present level.

On   the  Anatomical  Structure  Noifcorelc.ent  and fossil  Woods.

                       By W.

    With a view to acquire some precise information on this
subject, the author cut transverse sections of various trees, and
soon perceived that the reticulated texture of the recent Coni-
ferce was essentially the same as that of the fossil specimens.
As soon as he was thoroughly convinced of the similitude, he
mentioned the circumstance to many of his friends, and showed
them both the recent and fossil sections in the microscope. The
similitude was so striking as to be admitted by all ; but as the
fossil sections presented no appearance of regular annual layers,
some were led to entertain doubts as to the actual identity. On
examining soon after some fossils which he had found in the
vicinity of Whitby, and one in particular which he had found
among the debris of the porphyritic pitchstone in the island
of Eigg, he observed the same reticulated structure associated
with the most regular annual layers. These left no doubt
on his mind as to the Coniferous origin of the whole; but it was
TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                                 661

not until last year that he was enabled satisfactorily to remove
the doubts that some still entertained, by showing that the^/-a«-
caria Cunninghami, and a species of Callitris from Moreton
Bay in New Holland, were equally destitute of annual layers.
Since the author first began to direct his attention to the
structure of fossil woods, he has examined some hundreds of

specimens from various countries widely separated from each
other. From the tertiary formations he has obtained monoco
tyledons and dicotyledons, but, with one exception, no Coniferce.
The exception is in the island of Sheppy, from whence, in the
Edinburgh College museum, there are two specimens the coni
ferous origin of which cannot be doubted. The tertiary forma
tion of the island of Antigua is well known to furnish many spe
cimens of fossil wood ; and out of a hundred and fifty specimens
from that quarter there was not a single coniferous plant, the
greater part being dicotyledons, the rest monocotyledons. From
a tertiary formation in the island of Java, the author has lately
examined several specimens, but found
Yet although coniferous fossils would  no Coniferce among them.
                                       seem to occur sparingly,
at least in some tertiary formations, they are evidently widely
distributed among the different rocks of the carboniferous depo
sits. The author has examined many specimens of fossil wood
not only from the coal districts of this country, but also from
those of New Holland, and Nova Scotia in America, and found
them all to be Coniferce. Most of them are siliceous, but some
are calcareous, and others partly siliceous and partly converted

into the bituminous state of jet. Of the last, Mr. Nicol has in

his possession a very illustrative specimen which he found in
the lias formation in the vicinity of Whitby. The siliceous
portions of this specimen, which have been twisted round in

different directions, display distinctly the coniferous reticulated
structure, and the larger portions of the jet have the same
blackish zic-zac lines which occur in every transverse section

of that bitumen, but show no trace of the original structure. In
another specimen, however, consisting partly of an earthy mat
ter and portions of jet, which he also found in the same locality,
some of the portions of jet retain, though much obscured, the
true coniferous structure, and this is the only example of the
kind he has ever observed.
Jet, as generally found in the vicinity of Whitby, consists of
detached masses resembling the trunks or branches of trees very
much compressed. When cut into thin slices it is perfectly
transparent, and of a deep red or pale yellow colour, according
to the thickness; but although the three principal sections pre
sent a peculiar and constant structure, the author has never
662 FOURTH REPORT 1834.

observed, except in the above specimen, the true coniferous
structure. The coniferous origin of jet will, in all probability,
be generally admitted ; and the analogy of the naphtha of coal to
the turpentine of the Coniferce, as lately indicated by Dr. Reichen-
bach, gives room to surmise that coal in general has resulted
from the bituminization of coniferous plants.

    The transverse section, though always sufficient to distinguish
the Coniferce from the monocotyledons and dicotyledons, does
not furnish any criterion by which to distinguish with certainty
one species from another. The longitudinal section, however,
parallel to the partitions extending from the centre to the sur
 face, enables us to divide the whole family oiConiferce, whether
recent or fossil, into two distinct divisions. The discs or areolae
to be seen in that section are so different in form and arrange
ment in the two divisions,that there is no risk of mistaking any
species in the one for any species in the other.

    The first divison, which may be called the Pine division, in
cludes the true pines, the cypresses, the junipers, the thujas,
the callitrises, and Salisburia adiantifolia ; the second divison,
which may be called the Araucarian, includes the araucarias
and dammaras. The author first took notice of the discs in the
recent pine division, and then pointed out examples of similar
discs occurring in fossils of the same division.

    The discs or areolae to be seen in all the species do not occur
in every part of a section. They are generally distributed in
groups more or less extensive. Their form is for the most part
circular ; but they are sometimes slightly elliptical, and when
that is the case the transverse diameters are perpendicular to
the longitudinal partitions. They are arranged in a vertical di
rection, most frequently in single rows. Double rows, however,
are often to be seen ; but more than that number the author has
never observed, although he has cut and examined many hun
dreds of sections. The discs in a row are sometimes in contact
with one another, but often detached at very different distances ;
and wherever they occur in double rows, they are always placed

side by side in a horizontal direction. In many of the true pines

the discs have the largest dimensions towards the inner side of
each annual layer, and they are larger and better defined than
those in most of the other tribes of this division. When a section
of any of the larger true pines is properly cut, the discs often pre
sent an apparently flat surface, consisting of a number of distinct
concentric rings, especially when illumined with artificial light,
as that of a candle, and viewed with a garnet lens of the fortieth

or fiftieth of an inch radius. It does not always happen that
the discs are wholy composed of concentric circles. In many
TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.  6(53

of them four or five circles towards the circumference, and one
or two towards the centre, are all that is to be seen ; and it often
happens that the discs are cut so thin that scarcely a trace of

the circles remains.
    Among the fossil Coniferee a form and arrangement of discs

perfectly similar to what occurs in the recent true pines is often

to be seen. In a specimen, for example, from the coal formation
of Nova Scotia in America, belonging to Professor Jamieson,

the discs are numerous and well defined. They are arranged
both in single and double rows. When in double rows, they
are placed side by side in a horizontal direction. Their size is
equal to that of the discs occurring in many of the larger true

pines, and some of them display distinct concentric circles. A

similar form and arrangement of discs the author has often seen in
other specimens, particularly in one from Australia, and in an
other from the vicinity of Whitby. In the transverse section
these three fossils have regular annual layers, and present with
great distinctness the coniferous reticulated structure. Hence
it appears that in several widely distant regions fossil Coni
feree occur perfectly resembling in anatomical structure the
recent true pines.

   With regard to the other division of the Coniferee, namely,
that which includes the Araucarias and Dammaras, we find in

the longitudinal section, parallel to the partitions extending
from the centre to the surface, groups of discs differing widely
from those occurring in the Pine division, not only in size, but
also in form and arrangement. In this division, which we have
distinguished by the name of Araucarian, the discs occur in
single, double, and triple rows. They are in general arranged
in groups, but sometimes a row may be seen quite detached
from all others. The number of discs in a row varies from two
or three to sixty or seventy, and in any one row they are gene

rally equidistant and near one another. In the double and triple

rows the discs are never placed side by side in a horizontal di
rection, but always alternate with each other; and this is a cha
racter by which an Araucarian species may at once be distin
guished from any one species of the pine division. When the
discs are placed at a certain distance from each other, they are cir
cular ; when in contact, the approximating sides are compressed ;
and when at an intermediate distance, the approximating sides
become rectilinear. When the discs in the double rows are at

a particular distance from each other, they are partly polygonal
and partly circular. The contiguous boundary of each consists
of four straight lines, and that part of the periphery next the par*-
tition is a segment of a circle. When the discs are arranged
664 FOURTH REPORT-- 1834.

 in triple rows, those constituting the middle row are the most
 perfect equilateral hexagons ; and those constituting the side
 rows are partly polygonal and partly circular, similar in every
 respect to those constituting the double rows. The corre
sponding sides of the polygonal discs are generally connected
by two fine lines or fibres placed near the ends of each ; and
when the discs are well defined, they generally display concen
tric circles in the interior, and two parallel straight lines corre
sponding with the rectilinear boundaries of the polygonal kind.
The largest Araucarian discs are scarcely a quarter of the size
of the largest of those occurring in the true Pines. They are
so minute that to see them with advantage they should be mag
nified four or five hundred times, and illumined by the light of
a snow-white cloud.

     On cutting longitudinal sections of various fossils parallel
to the partitions extending from the centre to the surface, discs
are often to be seen, resembling in every respect those occurring
in the Araucarian division of recent Coniferce. They occur in sin
gle, double, triple, and sometimes even in quadruple rows. They
are sometimes circular, sometimes polygonal, at least in the
double and triple series, but in general the polygonal form pre
dominates. When the arrangement is in the triple or quadruple
series, the discs in the middle row or rows are in general hexa
gons, more or less regular; but in most specimens they are very
much obscured, and in many parts even completely obliterated.

In respect of size they are much smaller than those of the pine

division of coniferous fossils ; but they seldom or never display
more than the external bounding line, whether that line be cir
cular or polygonal.

  AMany examples of fossil Coniferce possessing discs similar to

those of the recent raucar ice might here be adduced, but at pre
sent it may suffice to notice three. Of these the fossil tribe at
present laid bare in Cragleith quarry first claims attention. In
that fossil the discs are in some parts entirely obliterated, but in
other parts, though much obscured, they are sufficiently obvious.
They are arranged in single, double, triple, and quadruple rows.
For the most part they are of a hexagonal form, and distinctly
alternate with each other. They merely retain the external
bounding line, and the vessels containing them are often very
much distorted. Their size is smaller than that of those of the
fossils belonging to the Pine division, but it is difficult to say
whether the double, triple, or quadruple series predominates.
One of the fossil Coniferce from New Holland, contains discs
similar to those in the Cragleith tree, but much bolder, and
better defined. They are chiefly arranged in single and double

N
TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.  665

rows ; and in the double rows those in one row alternate with
those in the other row, and the contiguous boundaries of each
are polygonal. In another from the vicinity of Whitby, the
discs are distinctly seen in several places. They occur in sin
gle, double, and triple rows, and are in some parts circular,
and in other parts polygonal. Their form, however, is often
rather indefinite on account of their boundaries being very much
obscured.

   After having examined the structure of many fossil Coniferce,
Mr. Nicol has not met with even one possessing characters essen
tially different from those to be seen in one or other of the recent
tribes. The transverse section is analogous in both ; the discs,
wherever they are well defined, agree with those in one or other
of the divisions above mentioned. In some instances, it is true,
even where the reticulated texture in the transverse section is
tolerably perfect, the discs in the longitudinal section are often

very much obscured, and even totally obliterated ; but this is
no proof that they did not exist in the wood before the com

mencement of the petrifactive process. In some recent woods

the discs are very obscure, even nearly as much so as in some
of the fossil kind ; and were such to become petrified, it is highly
probable they would entirely disappear. The author has seen
fossil sections which on a cursory view seemed to have no
discs, but which on careful inspection showed traces of them
in several parts.

    The recent attempts to establish new fossil genera would
seem to have arisen from considering a single section of one or
two true pines as containing the characters of all the Coniferce ;
and yet the discs in the Araucarias and Dammaras are so strik
ingly different from those in the true Pines, that it is impossible
to mistake the former for the latter. Had even a single longi
tudinal section of an Araucaria been examined, it would have
 been seen that multiplicate rows of discs of a polygonal form
 could not be admitted as a foundation for a new fossil genus.
 Had a few sections of some of the common Pines been examined,
it would have been seen that double rows of discs existed in
 recent as well as in fossil Coniferce, and therefore could not be
 adopted as the foundation for a new fossil genus. Had even a
limited number of transverse sections of recent Coniferce been
 examined, such a diversity in the size of the pith would have
 been seen as to preclude the idea of erecting into a new genus
 a single fossil, the distorted pith of which had a mean diameter
 of about four tenths of an inch. The author has in his posses
 sion a portion of the stem of an Araucaria Brasiliensis the pith
 of which is upwards of three tenths of an inch in diameter. Had
666 FOURTH REPORT 1834.

a sufficient number of fossil sections been examined, it would
have been seen that in some of them the whole structure in the
longitudinal direction had been so much obscured that scarcely a
trace even of the longitudinal partitions remained, and that
therefore the absence of discs could not be admitted as the
foundation of a new fossil genus. The presence or absence of
discs must often depend on the thickness of a section. In proof
of this Mr. Nicol has prepared a section of the present Crag-
leith tree, which when of the proper thickness showed the discs
very distinctly, but which now shows not a trace of them, in

consequence of the thickness being a little diminished. A source

of deception too often arises from the water absorbed in the pro
cess of grinding. In some fossil woods, particularly those of a
whitish colour, the translucency is such, when the substance is
penetrated with water, that discs may be seen ; but when the
water is evaporated, a degree of opacity ensues which renders
them invisible.

Mr. W. C. Trevelyan exhibited slices of fossil wood, from a

specimen which he had brought from Faroe, with drawings by
Mr. MacGillivray, who considers it an undescribed species, and
proIptoosecscurnsaminingtheit  Penuce Ferroensis.
                               island of Suderoe,  in  the  bed of clay asso

ciated with coal,  (oafllwthhiechothMerr.  strata in that island  belonging to
the trap family,)                          Trevelyan has given     a short ac

count in the Transactions of the Royal Society of Edinburgh
vol. ix. p. 461.

   Captain MacConnochie, Secretary to the Royal Geogra
phical Society, gave an account of the origin and progress of
that Institution. He communicated some details relative to the
late expedition to the Niger, and to the expeditions which are
about to be sent out to the interior of Africa and to British

Guiana.

Mr. Hall's model of a part of Derbyshire was exhibited.

  Mr. Saul exhibited drawings of the incisors and canine teeth

of the fossil Hippopotamus, from a gravel-pit near Huntingdon.

   Dr. Buckland laid before the Section a drawing, by Mrs.

Turner of Liverpool, of a large fossil marine plant, found in the
new red sandstone of that neighbourhood in 1829.
                TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                         667

IV. ANATOMY AND PHYSIOLOGY.

Observations    oBnythSeirprCohpearrlemsethBoed llo,f  studying the   Nervous
       System.                                                         Sfc.
                                                       F.ll.S. K.H.,

Sir Charles Bell, commenced by statingthe remarkable simi
larity in the ideas entertained on the nervous system from the
time of Galen to that of Monro and Baillie, which he attri
buted to the anatomists and teachers rigidly following the same
mode of investigation, and having the subject presented ever in
the same aspect. After illustrating by different examples how
men placed in exactly similar circumstances have the same con
ceptions elicited, he proceeded to show how inconsistent the
minute anatomy of the nervous system in the human body was
with the prevailing doctrine of one source of energy, and the
notion of the brain being the officina spirituum, and to prove
that to explain the meaning of the seeming intricacies of the
nervous system, it was necessary to consider the nerves as
possessed of different endowments. In                  tporobseecauttteinngdetdhetoin--quiry
there were three distinct considerations
1. The minute distribution of the nerves,
2. The functions of the parts to which they go,
3. Their roots, or the distinctions in their origins.
With regard to the first, he observed that during the period
of his early teaching, and some time previously to that, the ana
tomists of Europe had brought the knowledge of the branching
and distribution of the nerves to great perfection, but with no
commensurate improvement in the knowledge of their functions.
As to the second head, he said it had been most negligently
considered ; it was the investigation into the functions of the
part to which the nerves went which must be the ground of
all rational theory.
   His first illustration was taken from the eye. Six nerves

crowd towards this small organ ; what purpose could this
serve ? But when we consider not only the capacity of vision,
but the exquisite and peculiar sensibilities of the surfaces of
the eye ; when we consider the sensibilities as putting in action
all the guardian motions of the eye ; when we consider the
globe of the eye moved by four muscles subject to volition, and
others whose motions are instinctive ; the motions of the eye
lids ; the motions of the iris ; and the motions of the eyeball ;
the conviction arises that there is a relation between the many
668 FOURTH REPORT 1834.

nerves going to the organ and the various functions it performs.
He then gave a view of the many actions performed by the fea
tures, and especially by the mouth and lips, contending that
these different motions could not be performed by the opera
tion of one uniform source of energy in the brain, and one
mode of communication between the brain and exterior organs,
and that these considerations laid open to us the reason why
different nerves came to the same part, and formed connexions
which, without seeing the necessity for such combination, would
appear to us matter of accident.
   Sir Charles Bell proceeded to show how the investigation of

the roots of nerves threw further light upon this interesting
subject. He spoke of the columns of the spinal marrow, the
double roots of the spinal nerves, the ganglions on the posterior
root, and the resemblance of the fifth nerve of the head to the
spinal nerves. Taking the great work of Monro upon the
nervous system, he presented in succession the plates of the
roots of the spinal nerves, that of the ganglion of the fifth, and
that of two nerves going to one muscle. He called upon those
gentlemen who were of his own standing to remember the zeal
with which their old professor treated of these subjects, and
            i"f                his                          due to any other
asked them       they thought  he,  "grhaatviteudIehwunasg  over these plates
authority.       Often," said

and repeated all the dissections." These are the points of
anatomy that have suggested the experiments to ascertain
whether nerves were common nerves, or whether each was

endowed with powers differing from those of others, and re

sulting from the column or part from which it took origin. A
short history of his experiments on the spinal nerves and on
the fifth, terminated this discourse.
   In continuation of the preceding remarks, Sir Charles Bell re
minded hisaudience of the extraordinary complication of nerves
presented in the human body after minute dissection. He laid
before the section the plates of the nerves given by some of our
best authors, and asked if there could be found any clue to this
remarkable intricacy. He then proceeded to show that there was
a method in addition to those he had pointed out before, a
method of inquiry which enlarged the field of our observations,
and vastly increased the interest of the subject. This was com
parative anatomy ; the investigations of which, still following
the functions of the parts, shewed the nerves increasing in
number and in complication, in proportion as additional actions
were required, in the parts constituting the system of the ani

mal body.

    He presumed it would be granted that Nature wrought with
TRANSACTIONS OP THE SECTIONS.  66"9

great uniformity, and that if it were proved in any one instance

that sensibility and motion resulted from nervous matter, it must
be admitted that whenever motion and sensation were observ
able in a creature, there there must be nervous matter. As in
some of the lowest animals we perceive motion to result from

the influence of heat and light, where yet no nerves were visi
ble, it leads to the inquiry, what is the function of a nerve ? is a
nerve of itself a source of energy, or is it only a track of nervous
matter wrapped up in membrane for the purpose of conveying

an influence ?

   He proceeded to observe that in the lowest links of the chain
of animals there was ever attached to its nearer or central ex
tremity a little mass of nervous matter, or ganglion ; and that
this central mass, it was reasonable to suppose, was the real
organ, whilst the nerves were the appendages, the internuncii,
between the central organ and the external organ of sense, or
between that central organ and the moving instrument of the
animal. He proceeded to describe the ganglionic cord of the
Annelides, to show that the system in these lower animals was
essentially the same with that of man, although the extraor
dinary accumulation of the central masses in the brain and
spinal marrow of the latter obscured the resemblance. He here
introduced the name of Mr. Newport with high approbation of
his talents : he said, having observed the happy methods that
gentleman employed in investigating the nervous system of the
invertebral animals, he persuaded him to investigate their me
dullary cord, and to ascertain whether or not there was a di
stinction of an anterior and posterior portion of that cord ; and
in a very few days afterwards that gentleman brought him a pre
paration of the nervous system of the lobster, in which it was
shown that the anterior or lower portion of the cord passed over
the ganglion, and that the posterior portion merged in the gan
glion. Here was a remarkable confirmation of the strict re
semblance between the spinal marrow of the higher animals and
the medullary cord of the Invertebrata.

    Such then, Sir Charles Bell contended, were the modes of
investigating the nervous system : 1 st, By minute dissection of
the nerves of the human body ; 2nd, By the study of functions,
which requires both the finest hand and the highest capacity for
observation ; 3rd, The observation of the roots of the nerves
and the different sources from which they proceed ; 4th, Expe
riments upon the living animal by observing what functions are
cut off by the division of certain nerves, a mode of proceeding
which for many reasons ought not to be lightly undertaken, and
which could be successfully prosecuted only under the guidance
670         FOTTRTH REPORT 1834.

of knowledge obtained by the former methods ; 5th, By com
parative anatomy, the most satisfactory of all the modes by
which the   aupnpraavreenlltedcoannfdussioysnteomf atthizeedn. erveSsirofChthaerlehsumBaenll  body
were to be                                                                                    then
gave a short account of his paper about to be published by the
Royal Society, in which he has followed out the relations be
tween the cerebrum and the sensitive and motor nerves ; and
where he has distinguished two portions of the crus cerebri, one
descending anteriorly to the transverse septum of the pons, the
other posteriorly to that septum ; the anterior relating to the
nerves of motion, the posterior to the nerves of sensation : and
he proceeded in some detail to show that any attempt to explain
the most familiar symptoms of disease in the brain must be
imperfect without the knowledge of these facts.

On the interest and importance to  theByMDedri.caAlbePrrcorfoemssbioien.                      of

  the study of Mental Philosophy.

   The remarks on this subject were delivered in a closing ad
dress to the Medical Section. Dr. Abercrombie said he was
aware of the objections which had been brought against admit
ting the philosophy of mind as one of the regular sections of
the Association ; and to a considerable extent he admitted their
truth, as it might be difficult to preserve such discussions from
those hypothetical speculations by which this important science
had been so much obscured and retarded in its progress. But
by treating it as a branch of physiology, he trusted this might
be avoided, by rigidly restricting the investigation to a careful
observation of facts, and the purposes of high practical utility
to which they might be applied. Keeping in view the importance
of these rules, he earnestly recommended the subject to medical
inquirers, as capable of being cultivated on strict philosophical
principles as a science of observation, and as likely to yield
laws, principles, or universal facts, which might be ascertained
with the same precision as the laws of physical science. For
this purpose, however, inquirers must abstain from all vain
speculations respecting the nature and essence of mind, or the
mode of its communication with external things, and must con
fine themselves to a simple and careful study of its operations.

   Respecting the means of cultivating the philosophy of mind
as a science of rigid observation, Dr. Abercrombie alluded to
the study of mental phaenomena and mental habits in ourselves
and in other men ; the whole phaenomena of dreaming, insa
nity, and delirium; and the mental conditions which occur
in connexion with diseases and injuries of the brain. The sub
                TRANSACTIONS OF THK SECTIONS.                            671

jects of dreaming and insanity, which have hitherto heen little
cultivated with this view, he considered as capable of being pro
secuted on sound philosophical principles, and as likely to yield
curious and important results respecting the laws of association
and various other processes of the mind.

    The practical purposes to which mental science may be ap
plied, Dr. Abercrombie considered briefly under the following
heads : 1 . The education of the young, and the cultivation of a

sound mental discipline at any period of life. In all other de

partments we distinctly recognise the truth, that every art must
be founded upon science, or upon a correct knowledge of the
uniform relations and sequences of the essences to which the art
refers ; and it cannot be supposed that the only exception to
 this rule should be the highest and most delicate of all human
 pursuits, the science and the art of the mind. 2. The intel
lectual and moral treatment of insanity, presenting a subject of
 intellectual observation and experiment, in which little com
 paratively has been done, but which seems to promise results
 of the highest importance and interest. 3. The prevention of
 insanity in individuals in whom there exists the hereditary pre
 disposition to it. He gave his reasons for being convinced that
 in such cases much might be done by a careful mental culture,
 and that irremediable injury might arise from the neglect of it.
 4. Dr. Abercrombie alluded to the importance of mental science
 as the basis of a philosophical logic; and concluded his address
 by some observations on the dignity and importance of medi
 cine, characterizing it as one of the highest pursuits to which
 the human mind can be directed, as it combines with the cul
 ture of a liberal science, the daily exercise of an extensive bene
 volence, and thus tends at once to cultivate the highest powers
 of the understanding and the best feelings of the heart.

Notice of     some Experiments on the                     connexion between the
                      Dar.ndJ.thRe eIirdri.tabWiliittyh                  Living
   Nervous    System                                      of Muscles in  by Dr.
    Animals.
Alison.         By                                        Observations

Although physiologists are still divided in opinion as to the
question whether nerves furnish a condition necessary to the
irritation  of                                            every stimulus which excites
a muscle    to  mcounstcrlaesc,tio(ni.ea. cwtsheotnheirt  through the intervention of

nervous filaments,) they have now very generally abandoned the
once prevalent theory, that the irritability of muscles is derived
from the brain or spinal cord, i.e. that muscles are continually
receiving, through their nerves, from those larger masses of the
672 FOURTH REPORT-- 1834.

nervous system, supplies of a certain influence or energy, which
enables them to contract; and that some of the statements of
Dr. Wilson Philip, in particular, are generally regarded as de
cisive against this theory.
   Dr. Wilson Philip found by experiment, that the irritability
of a muscle of which the nerves were entire, was exhausted by
applying a stimulus directly to the muscular fibres (sprinkling
salt on them) even more quickly than that of a muscle of which
the nerves had been cut, and where all communication with the
supposed source of nervous influence or energy had been cut
off; and he states generally that a muscle of voluntary motion,

if exhausted by stimulation, will recover its irritability by rest,
although all its nerves have been divided.
But in opposition to this statement, and in support of the old
theory of nervous influence continually flowing through certain
J.of the nerves into the muscles, it has lately been stated by

Mr. W. Earle, that when the nerves of the limb of a frog
were cut, the skin stripped off, and the muscles irritated by
sprinkling salt on their fibres, until they had lost their power
of contraction, although they did not lose their power much

more quickly than when the nerves were entire, yet they did
not regain their power, although left undisturbed for five weeks ;
while the muscles of the limbs of another frog, similarly treated,
but of which the nerves were left entire, completely recovered

their irritability.

   It occurred as a fundamental objection to the experiment of
Mr. Earle, that in the case where the nerves had been divided,
                                                                                    end of
the  mfivuesclwees ekhsad"bseocfotemr e   inflamed   ; being         found at the  a good
the                                      in their   texture         than natural,

deal injected with blood, and with some interstitial deposition
of fluid in them;" while in the limb to which the salt had been

applied, but of which the                n"eravlethsouwgehre  left  entire,  and where the
irritability was recovered,                                   the   colour   of the muscles

was ratherdarkerthan natural, their texture remained unchanged,
and there was no interstitial deposition of fluid in them."

   In these circumstances it might evidently be supposed that it
was the inflammation and disorganization of the muscles, not
the section of the nerves, which prevented the recovery of the
irritability in the case where the nerves had been cut ; and it
became important to have the experiment repeated, with care to
avoid such injury of the limb of the animal as should cause
inflammation to succeed the section of the nerves.
With this view, Dr. Reid performed a number of experiments
on frogs, in which the irritability of the muscles of both hind-
legs was exhausted or greatly diminished by galvanism, after
       TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                                         673

the nerves of one leg had been divided and the lower part of the
limb rendered perfectly insensible and incapable of voluntary
motion, (but without stripping off the skin,) while the nerves
of the other had been left entire. The state of the muscles of

both limbs was examined after some days. The results of these
experiments were not uniform ; but in several, where every at
tention to accuracy seemed to have been paid, the irritability
of the muscles in the palsied limbs appeared to be restored as
perfectly as in the others; contractions being excited in them,
in several instances, by the galvanism from four or even two
plates, whereas they had formerly been irritated until they were
no longer excitable by that from fourteen plates.

   That the muscles which thus recovered their irritability had
lost all nervous connexion with the brain or spinal cord was
proved, not only by their obvious insensibility, but by after
wards cutting off the heads of the animals and forcing a probe
along the spinal canal, which excited forcible contractions in all
parts excepting the palsied limbs.

   Dr. Alison's paper contained the details of several of these
experiments ; and he stated in conclusion, that as a positive
result in such an inquiry must always outweigh a negative one,
(particularly where a source of fallacy attending the latter can
be pointed out,) these experiments appear fully to justify the as
sertion of Dr. Wilson Philip, that a muscle of voluntary motion
may recover its irritability by rest, although all its nerves be
divided ; and that they afford, perhaps, more direct evidence
than any others in support of the doctrine of Haller, now gene
rally admitted in this country, that the property of irritability
in muscles is independent of any influence or energy continually
flowing from the nervous system, although, like every other
endowment of living animals, it is subjected to the control of
causes which act primarily on that part of the living frame.

  Dr. Allen Thomson expressed a doubt whether these expe

riments warranted the conclusion drawn from them, not because
he acquiesced in the theory to which they are opposed, nor be
cause he called in question the accuracy of the results described
to have been obtained, but because he knew that former experi
menters had failed in producing such diminution or exhaustion
of the irritability of muscles as had been found by Dr. Reid j.
and conceived it possible that some of the numerous fallacies to
which such experiments are liable might not have been suf
ficiently guarded against.*

* A Committee, of which Dr. Thomson was a member, was appointed for the
repetition of the experiments, which has performed the duty assigned to it.
       2x
1834.
                                                                        1

674 FOURTH REPORT-- 1834.

The accuracy of Dr. Reid's statement as to the great diminu
tion or apparent exhaustion of the irritability of the muscles
under the influence of the galvanism, and the subsequent reco
very of the power, notwithstanding       the division of all their
nerves, was satisfactorily established.
                                           It is to be remarked,

however, that in these experiments, as usual in such cases, the
limbs to which the galvanism was applied were kept moist by
the same saline solution with which the galvanic trough was
charged ; and Dr. Thomson has observed, that when they are
moistened with pure water, the diminution of the irritability
under the excitement by galvanism is much less obvious.
Hence he was led to suspect that the apparent loss of power in
the muscles under that process might depend, not on the cir

cumstance of repeated excitement, but on a degree, however
slight, of injury to their texture by the action of the salt. This
inquiry he proposes to prosecute further ; but in the mean time
it is certain that by the usual process of galvanizing a living mus
cle moistened by a saline solution, a very great diminution of its
irritability may be effected, which may subsequently be regained,
notwithstanding the division of all its nerves ; and as the fact of
its recovery, not the cause of its diminution or exhaustion, is
the point on which the inference drawn from these experiments
rests, that inference may be held to be sufficiently justified.

Notice  of some Observations on the  vital  properties of  Arteries
         leading to inflamed parts.   By    Dr. Alison.

   These observations were made with the able assistance of
Mr. Dick, veterinary surgeon, on the arteries of the limbs of
several horses, condemned on account of injury and inflamma
tion there.

The immediate object of inquiry was, whether the tortuous
and strongly pulsating arteries leading to an inflamed part are
really endowed with a greater vital power of contraction than
sound arteries ; and the method taken to ascertain this was,

to make a comparative examination of the condition of these
arteries, and of the corresponding arteries in the opposite
sound limbs, immediately on the animals being killed (by blow
ing air into  their                                       of 16  or 24
hours, when   it is  veins)  ; and again after the lapse         takes
                     known   that the tonic contraction,  which

place at the time of death, and is the indication of the only
vital power which experiments authorzie us to ascribe to arteries,

has relaxed.
The animals were killed, and the observations made, at dif

ferent periods varying from twelve hours to twenty days after
               TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                                         675

the commencement of the inflammation, in the five cases of

which an account was read. The extent of the inflammation
was various. In all the cases, the artery leading to the in
flamed part, when laid bare as high as the groin as soon as
possible after the death of the animal, was larger in its whole
length, i. e. had contracted less at the moment of death, than

that of the sound limb. In two of the cases, where the inflam

mation was of long standing, and the coats of the artery ap
               it
                                          it,

                                                                           ;
peared to have been affected by this vessel at the second ex
amination appeared smaller than the artery of the sound limb,
having not only contracted less at the moment of death, but di

lated less after death, than the artery in the natural state. In
the other cases the artery of the inflamed limb remained larger
than the other at the second examination and was further
                                                                              it it
obvious that its elasticity was impaired, for when slit open and
smoothed out,  had less power than the sound artery of reco

vering the cylindrical form.

   In all the cases, the artery of the inflamed limb retained after
death considerable quantity of blood, while the other was
amost empty; and that this was not owing to inflammatory                             a
   aeffusion, preventing the artery of the affected limb from empty                        al
ing itself at the time of death, was proved, in two of the cases,
by cutting across the vessel, immediately on the death of the
animal, little above the inflamed part, whereby had full op
portunity to rid itself of its blood,
to do so.      ;                           had retained the power

                        it
                                 if
                                      it
   One of these observations was made in the presence of Dr.
Yelloly, Dr. Clark, Dr. Fletcher, Mr. Broughton, Mr. Clift,
and Mr. Bracy Clark and may be added here, that in sub
sequent experiment, in which Dr. Alison and Mr. Dick were
assisted by Dr. Fletcher, they obtained further proof of the loss
of elasticity in the artery of an inflamed limb, by finding that
after had been distended by a given weight of mercury (in
it

the way practised by Poiseville,)      it  had less power than the

corresponding sound artery, to contract on itself and expel its
contents when the distending force was withdrawn. But this
last experiment was made too long after the death of the ani
mal to justify an inference as to the strictly vital power of the

vessel.

Dr. Alison stated, that seems now generally admitted by mi
               it

croscopical observers, that during by far the greatest part, and
during the highest intensity of inflammation, nothing but dila
Iftation or relaxation of the small vessels of the inflamed part can
be perceived.  the present observations shall be confirmed
by others, they will show more distinctly than any statements
                   2x2
676 FOURTH REPORT 1834.

hitherto on record, that the same holds true of the larger vessels
supplying an inflamed part. Now, there are two changes in the
movement of the blood through the vessels of an inflamed part
which seem well ascertained by many observations, viz. re
tarded movement or absolute stagnation (stase du sang) in many
of the small vessels most affected, even during the height of
the inflammation ; and accelerated movement in the neighbour
ing vessels, with greatly increased transmission, in a given time,
through the whole veins of the part. This last change may,
perhaps, be reasonably ascribed to the relaxation of the vessels
giving increased effect to the impulse from the heart; but it
seems impossible to ascribe likewise to that relaxation of ves
sels, the former, which is just the opposite change in the move
ment of the blood ; and yet no modification of the action of any
of the vessels, except simple relaxation, can be detected.

    The fair inference from these facts therefore seems to be, that
the phaenomena of inflammation are truly inexplicable by any
changes which occur, during that state, in the contractile power
of the vessels containing the blood ; and that, instead of seeking
for an explanation of these phaenomena in the state of contrac
tions of any of the solids, we ought rather to look for it in the
state of the attractions subsisting during the living state among
the particles of the blood, and between them and the surround
ing solids. And this inference the author thinks might be sup
ported by reference both to other facts in the history of in
flammation, and also to many other phaenomena of the living
body both in health and disease.

Report of Progress made in an Experimental Inquiry regard
ing the Sensibilities of the Cerebral                     Nerves, recommended
aHt athlel  last  MMere. tiBnrgouogfhtthoen.Association.
            and                                              By Dr. Marshall

    Some disagreement appears to exist amongst the results of the
investigations regarding the sensibilities of the cerebral nerves,

which demands further experimental inquiry. A series of ex

periments has therefore been instituted at the request of the
Committee of the Medical Section, and the establishment of
Messrs. Field in Oxford-street, London, was selected for the
purpose of carrying the inquiry into effect ; the horse and the
ass, from their large size, being considered as the most favourable
subjects for the free exposure of the nerves.

   The properties of some of the cerebral nerves being admitted
upon other grounds than experimental proof, this investigation
was exclusively directed to the facial branches of the fifth pair
           TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                      677

of nerves, the hard portion of the seventh, the vagus, the spinal
accessory, the glosso-pharyngeal, the lingual, and the sympa
thetic nerves. Upon the properties of the first, second, third,
fourth, sixth, and the soft portion of the seventh pairs of nerves
           or discrepancy exists.
no doubt   long been known that    the  properties  of  the  cerebral

   It has
nerves are various. Thus, one nerve governs the function of
motion ; another that of some specific sensation, as of light or
sound; and these properties are held independently of each
other. To understand clearly the properties of nerves, it is also
necessary to apply the test of experiment to their roots ; for
branches from two or more roots unite to form one nerve ap
parently, which may then assume two distinct properties, that
is, the peculiar property of each root. This is exemplified in
the origin and distribution of the nerves of the face.
The apparent discrepancies in the results of experiments
probably depend much upon the indefinite manner in which cer
tain physiological terms have been employed. Thus, sensation
has been coupled with consciousness in some instances, and in
others it has been supposed to exist without consciousness.   In
the present report the term sensation implies consciousness.
                                                              It

is considered as identical with feeling, and when violently excited
it becomes pain. And this is manifested by general and in
stantaneous efforts or struggles. These are, therefore, the signs

of sensibility .
   Three modes of judgement have appeared as necessary to be
kept in view in the present inquiry in reference to the above de
finition :

   1. It was observed that when a nerve of unequivocal sensibi
lity was pricked or pinched, an immediate and general struggle
followed. The facial branches of the fifth nerve are examples.
2. That when a nerve as unequivocally devoted to motion is
pinched, there is an immediate contraction of the muscles which
that nerve supplies, and of no other muscles.
   3. That on pinching the par vagum, neither of the phaeno
mena above noticed occurs ; but by continuing the compression
for a few moments, an act of respiration and of deglutition fol

lows, with a tendency to struggle and cough.

   Of these three phaenomena the first only is considered as in
dicating the property of sensation, or the power in the nerve
subjected to experiment to transmit sensible impressions.
The movements in the third instance appear to arise from
secondary causes, the mechanical irritation of the nerve not
bei1n. gEaxtpteenrdimedenwtsithupimonmtehdeiaFteaccioanlscNioeursvneess.s--. These nerves go
678 FOURTH REPORT 1834.

vern the actions of the face, and preside over the sensibilities of

its different organs and surfaces. The first function is performed
by the facial portion of the seventh nerve and a portion of the

fifth. The second function is performed by the large portion of
the fifth pair of nerves. Thus the fifth nerve possesses two di

stinct properties of transmission, one voluntary, the other sen
tient, in consequence of its having two distinct roots. One of
                                                               it,
                                                                         is
                                                                              it
these roots, the largest, has a ganglion attached to and ex
clusively sentient nerve. The smaller root has no ganglion,

   insensible, and governs the motions of those muscles which
is
             is

                  a

                                       is
supplies. The first fact easily gained by experiment, but the
second admitted upon other grounds, for the smaller root can   is

not be experimented upon in the living animal. It to be ob

served that the larger root of the fifth nerve divided into three
                                                     is

branches, spread and ramified over the face, and frequently con                               ;
nected in its ramifications with branches of the seventh nerve

so that unless the experimental tests be applied to distinct

branches, no certain response can be obtained as to their several

properties.
   Pricking or pinching the trifacial nerve was attended with
instantaneous indications of consciousness when its branches
                                                     it
were divided, all sensibility ceased in the parts which they supply.
                                                          ;

                                                                       it
                                                                                    ; it
The lower divided ends made no response when bruised, but the
upper indicated sensation. The motions of the face, however,
still remained unimpaired, until the seventh nerve was divided
as near its origin as possible, when the organs which supplies
became permanently motionless. When this nerve was slightly
pinched in its entire state, those muscles exclusively which
supplies were seen to be convulsed, without any general effort
when the compression was increased, and continued for a few
moments, signs of uneasy respiration occurred. Pricking this
nerve with needle and cutting through produced no struggle
whatever, as the case with the trifacial nerve. When the
            a
                 is

lower end of the nerve, after division, was irritated, no movement

followed but on compressing the upper end, the same signs
        ;

were    exhibited as when the nerve was              Virargituaste. --d iInnittsheenyteiraer  state.
    2.  Experiments upon the Nervus                                                           1820
Mr. Broughton experimented upon this nerve
                                                                the results were

                                                               of the Royal In

                                                               slightly pinched,
published   in the Quarterly               Journal of Science;
stitution.                                                                    a
             It was found to               be insensible when                                 a

pricked,    or divided. The                present   experimental investigation
confirmed                                  was also   on the former, as well as
             this remark. It

upon the recent occasion, clearly shown that, when forcible
compression was continued few moments upon the nervus vagus,
arespiratory effort followed, and an act of deglutition, witha
TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                      679

cough and a struggle. In the recent investigation it was observ
able that when the nervus vagus was divided, mechanical irritation
applied to the upper end of the divided nerve produced the same
signs as when the nerve was entire. Every repeated compres
sion of this nerve (as was also the case with the seventh) pro
duced corresponding respiratory struggles; whilst a uniform,
uninterrupted compression caused no repetition of the phaeno
mena. An additional argument in support of the opinion that
these effects are independent of any sensible property in the
nerve itself is furnished by the fact that Dr. Marshall Hall has
found precisely similar effects to occur in the turtle after its de
capitation, on pricking the lateral spinal nerves, whether of the
sentient or motory class.
   3. Experiments upon     the  Spinal  Accessory  Nerve. --This

nerve having been pricked without any response, was then
slightly pinched and scraped ; when the sterno-maxillaris mus
cle, the levator humeri, and other muscles of the neck exclu

sively were seen to contract at each application of this mecha
nical irritation. But when the forceps was applied firmly, and
continued a few moments, similar effects were produced as with
the vagus and the seventh. The branches of this nerve appeared
to be equally destitute of sensibility with the root. The com
pression of the upper end, after dividing this nerve below its
bifurcation, was followed by no effects, unless the pressure was
made opposite the giving off of the anterior branch, when the
same phaenomena occurred as were exhibited in the entire nerve.
   4. Experiments upon the Glosso-Pharyngeal Nerve. -- When
this nerve was pricked, scraped, or divided, no response was ob
served. The muscles of the root of the tongue were most pro
bably set in motion by the compression of this nerve at inter
vals ; but no opportunity occurred of bringing this part of the
tongue into view. Neither in its entire nor divided state did any
struggle arise from the continued compression of this nerve,
which is therefore  reugpaorndedtheasNoinntehsiNmeprlvye.o--f mThuescuslaernsimbleotiosnu.r
   5. Experiments
face of the tongue is supplied by the ganglionic portion of the
fifth nerve, whilst the muscles of its fore part are furnished with
branches from the ninth nerve. No sign of sensation was
evinced by mechanically irritating the trunk of this nerve, and
its division was unattended with any sign of feeling or pain.
But upon pinching it slightly at intervals, those muscles which

Ifit supplies, on the same side of the tongue, were convulsed.
the nerve was forcibly compressed, a slight gulp followed. When
the nerve was divided, pinching the upper end of it was not fol
lowed by any muscular contractions.
680 FOURTH REPORT 1834.

   6. Experiments upon the Sympathetic Nerve. --No experi
ments upon this nerve have hitherto exhibited any signs of sen
sation or muscular motion of any kind whatever. Its division
    never followed  by any visible effect.
is                  these observations some              of other ex
    Remarks. --By
                                             researches

perimenters stand confirmed, whilst others are contradicted; the
necessary consequence of discrepancies, often arising from the
different modes of applying certain terms. Although the my
sterious properties and actions of the nerves may never be com
pletely unravelled, yet much has been effected by the successive
and combined efforts of physiologists of different ages and
countries.

   The present investigation leads to the assumption, that one only
of those nerves which derive their roots from the brain itself
is, according to the definition laid down, a nerve of sensa
tion. This is the larger and ganglionic division of the fifth

nerve, whereby animals are enabled to examine by touch and to

feel.
    With regard to the other nerves subjected to experiment in
this inquiry, none of them appear to possess in themselves any
power to excite consciousness or feeling directly. Some of them
are simply nerves of motion, and they transmit no other impres
sions but such as excite local muscular motion, limited to the

muscles which they supply. Others, again, seem to possess a
property of a different description from either of the two former
kinds. One of these, the eighth for example, appears to be so
intimately connected with the respiratory function as to be capa
ble of influencing it in a most remarkable degree, without ex
hibiting any sign of sensation in itself, or of simple and direct
muscular contraction.

   It is a most remarkable fact, that when a nerve which influ

ences respiration is divided, and the upper division is bruised or
compressed for a few seconds, the same effects occur as when
the irritation is applied to the entire nerve. This phaenomenon
affords matter of curious and interesting speculation with regard
to the relations which subsist between the nervous and the re

spiratory functions.
    The further pursuit of this inquiry may lead to some further
development of facts hitherto exposed in some instances to doubt
and controversial discussion.
    Dr. Hall was necessarily absent at one of the experiments,
that on the ninth nerve ; but he feels perfectly satisfied with

the joint testimony of Mr. Field and Mr. Broughton.
             TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                                                                           681

      On the BEfyfeDctrs. oHfoPdogiskoinns aonndthDer.AnRiumpapl e(lEl.conomy.

   Dr. Hodgkin and Dr. Ruppell, who were appointed at the
Cambridge Meeting of the Association to draw up a report for
the Medical Section respecting some points connected with the
effect of poisons, stated that they were not as yet prepared to
present the results of their inquiries ; but Dr. Hodgkin informed
the Section that his colleague had paid very considerable atten
tion to the subject, although his extensive materials were not put
together in a form to be offered to the Association. Dr. Hodgkin
also laid before the Section the Fasciculi published by Dr. Riip
pell, and read a preliminary paper reporting the progress which

J.he had himself independently made, illustrated by various draw

ings by C. Canton, and wax models by Joseph Towne.

   The points alluded to in this preliminary essay were the na

tural structure of the lining membrane of the stomach ; the
differences which it presents in its normal and abnormal state
in respect of colour, consistence, and equality of surface ; the
condition of the mucous membrane of the stomach with respect
to follicular appendages ; some indications which may be drawn
from the situation of that part of the stomach which has been
most injured by ingesta; and the different extent to which various
noxious agents and their effects may be traced along the course
of the alimentary canal.

    The drawings and models exhibited the appearances observed
in numerous human stomachs, occasioned by disease, congestion,
arsenic, hot water, sulphuric and prussic acids ; and the effects
of hot water, alcohol, arsenic, corrosive sublimate, and oxalic
acid on dogs or horses.

Inquiries    inaotcofceMtlheaermaVtmeadarliieaot.riesreBotayfrdMDeedrc.hinTan.tihsJem. AArbittykeiwrniha.ilchantdhe   Blood
   may be
                                                                                                                     Venous
    Systems

   The attention of the Section was particularly directed to four
modifications of arterial distribution, as indicated, (1.) by the an
gle at which a branch comes off from its trunk ; (2.) the direc
tion of the vessel ; (3.) the subdivision ; and (4.) the formation
of plexus.

   In illustration of the first, or angle of origin, Dr. Aitkin ex

hibited a preparation of the aorta of the tiger, in which the supe
rior intercostals arose at an acute, the middle at a right, and the
lower at an obtuse angle ; from which he inferred that the force
 682 FOURTH REPORT -- 1834.

 and velocity of the blood are rendered equal through the whole
 series. In speaking of the direction of the vessel, he adverted
 to the tortuous entrance of the internal carotid and vertebral
 arteries into the skull in the human subject, and showed that
 it is still more remarkable in the horse, which in feeding requires
 to have the head for a considerable time in the dependent pos
 ture. But the best examples of the tortuous, or serpentine,
 course are to be seen in the spermatic arteries of the Mammalia.
This mechanism, the author contends, adapts the circulation to
 the various positions in which organs may be placed, and to

their states of action and repose. In speaking of the third mo

 dification, or the subdivision into numerous long branches, he
particularly alluded to the observations of Sir A. Carlisle with
respect to the arteries of the sloth, and showed that a similar
ramification is found in the hedgehog, both in the arteries of
the panniculus carnosus and of the mesentery. Of the last mo
dification, the plexus, he showed examples in the rete mirabile
of Galen in the internal carotid, and of Hovius in the ophthal
mic artery, of the Ruminant ia. He inferred that this structure
prevents valvular turgescence, which would otherwise occur
during the long period these animals keep their head in the de
pendent position while browsing. He also showed that a rete
mirabile exists in the ophthalmic artery of the seal and goose,
and considered it probable that in them it is conducive to the
alternate adaptation of the eye to vision in air and water. He
described the remarkable plexiform arrangement which exists
in the mesenteric arteries and veins of the hog ; and instituted
a comparison between those vessels in carnivorous and herbivo
rous Mammalia, concluding that these modifications are in con
formity with the transmission of blood through the liver, the
rapidity of the peristaltic motion, and the power of nutrition.

Observations  on the Anatomy  oDfrt.hSe hBalorpoed-yv.essels  of  the  Por

                   poise. By

    1 . The artery of the anterior extremity or fin of the porpoise,
corresponding to the brachial in man, presents a peculiarity of
distribution similar to that observed in the arteries of the limbs
of slow-moving animals. The vessel, after crossing the first
rib, divides into a great many long and small arteries, which
run nearly parallel, but repeatedly anastomose, so as to form an
elongated plexus, consisting at its thickest part of at least forty
vessels. This plexus continues as far as the distal end of the
humerus, where its component vessels again unite into five or
more larger arteries, which run along the radius and ulna.
                       TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.

   2. Convoluted arterial plexuses, similar to those in the thorax
and vertebral canal of this and other cetaceous animals, (in
which situation they were particularly described by Mr. Hunter
in the Philosophical Transactions for 1787,) are formed also by
several arteries of the neck and head.

   3. Several arteries show a tendency to divide into long parallel
branches, of which the arteries of the bladder, vagina, and ute
rus offer a striking example.

   4. The mode of division of the posterior or caudal portion of
the aorta differ somewhat from the description given by Cuvier,
in as much as that,vessel is not wholly resolved into small
branches, which unite to form it anew, but is only diminished
in size, and concealed in the midst of a plexus formed by its
branches, from which, after becoming larger, it again emerges.

    5. The veins as well as the arteries present in several regions
of the body a plexiform arrangement, and in some situations
plexuses of both kinds of vessels are associated or mixed with
one another.

    6. The artery corresponding to the internal carotid, which at
its origin is as large as in man, diminishes in a tapering manner,

and without giving off branches, till it enters the skull, where it

is scarcely thicker than a pin.

         On the Use of the Omentum. By Mr. Dick.

   From  tahecosmhepeapri,s--on    of the   structure  of this organ  in the   horse
and in                           in the    former the    omentum      being   small,

the   intestines   are fixed, and undergo   comparatively little      change
                    author inferred that   the omentum might            serve,
of   place, --the

by interposition between the intestines and abdominal parietes,
to facilitate motion.

On the Infiltration of the Lungs with black Matter, and on
           black Expectoration. By Dr. W. Thomson.

   The author particularly noticed the cases of this singular in
filtration, occurring in coal-miners, iron-founders, and other
workmen exposed by their employment to the inhalation of
carbonaceous gases and powders. He referred to a variety of
published and unpublished communications on the subject, and
exhibited a number of preparations and drawings illustrative of
the appearances, nature, and seat of the disease.
68i  PUURTU REPORT 1834.

      On Excision of diseased Joints. By Professor S v m e .

    The author explained that his object was not to discuss the

merits of the operation, to institute a comparison between it

and amputation, to establish the principles which seem most
conducive to its safe and effectual performance, or to enter into
any more particular details concerning the different modes of
procedure which are requisite for the different joints, but merely
to prove by actual demonstration that the two great objections
which have been urged against the operation, however specious
in theory, are not supported by experience. These objections
he stated to be, 1st, that the diseased bone could not be com
pletely removed by excision, so as to afford a perfect and per
manent cure ; and, 2ndly, that the limb preserved by the opera

tion must be nearly or altogether useless to the patient. In reply

to the first of these objections, he produced a woman, 44 years
of age, who eight years ago had the shoulder-joint removed,
on account of caries in the head of the os humeri which had
existed for six or seven years, and reduced her to an extreme
degree of weakness. The head of the bone, completely hollowed
out by disease, was exhibited, and the woman showed that while
her general health and strength were quite restored, there was
hardly any perceptible difference in the utility of her arms. He
also placed before the meeting a boy who had his elbow-joint
excised between five and six years ago, on account of caries
which had existed twelve months. The articulating extremities
of all the bones entering into the formation of the joint were
exhibited ; and the boy proved, by free and varied movements
of his arm, that he retained completely the power of flexion, ex
tension, and rotation of the elbow, without any diminution of
strength. In reply to the second objection, he stated that it
seemed to be grounded on the difficulty of conceiving how the
tendons, after being cut away from their attachments, could
again adhere to the bones so as to move them in obedience to
the action of the muscles, and on the erroneous idea which ge
nerally existed as to the changes that occur between the osseous

surfaces subsequently to the operation. In order to show that

when tendons have their attachments divided they readily ac
quire new ones, so as to perform their usual offices, he brought
forward a patient who had suffered Chopart's amputation of the
foot for caries of the tarsus and metatarsus, and who conse
quently, having only the os calcis and astragalus remaining, had
had all the tendons opposing the extensors of the ankle divided,
but who nevertheless retained completely the power of bending
TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                                          685

and extending the joint. In respect to the changes which take
place between the osseous surfaces after the operation of exci
sion, he stated that anchylosis could not be induced unless the
limb was kept perfectly motionless ; and that the bones almost
invariably became united, not by any structure analogous to a
joint, but by means of a fibrous substance possessing such
thickness, strength, and flexibility as to preserve the shape and
firmness of the limb,   and allow a proper  degree of motion in
the seat of the joint.                      structure was exhi
                        A specimen of this
bited in the case of an elbow-joint which had been dissected

about twelve months after the performance of excision. Having

made these remarks, he submitted to the meeting the positive
evidence afforded by several persons in addition to those already
exhibited, in all of whom the operation of excision had pre

served limbs hardly if at all less useful than they were before
suffering from the disease.

Abstract of a Registry kept in the Lying-in Hospital of Great
Britain-street, Dublin,      JforosemphthCe lyaerakre,175o8f   to the  end
1833. By the late Dr.                                                       of
                                                              Dublin.

   This communication illustrated in a very striking manner the
importance of thorough ventilation, and the great diminution of
mortality among the children in this hospital since that object
has been attended to. It appears that during the 75 years men
tioned, relief has been afforded to upwards of 129,000 poor wo
men ; that in 1 781 every sixth child died within nine days after
birth, of convulsive disease ; and that after means of thorough
ventilation had been adopted, the mortality of infants, in five
successive years, was reduced to nearly one in twenty.

                        STATISTICS.

Statistics of Glasgow. By James Cleland, LL.D.

The parochial register of births in Glasgow being so defective
that no reliance could be placed on it, Dr. Cleland obtained the
necessary information    in the following manner :
   Concerning Births.   -- On 6th December 1829,              he addressed  a

letter to each of the seventy-five clergymen and lay pastors in the
city and suburbs who baptize children, requesting to be favoured
with the number they might baptize from 14th December 1829, to
15th December 1830, both days inclusive, being the year previous
686 FOURTH REPORT-- 1834.

to the last Government census. The letter was accompanied by a
book, in which the sexes and the particular parishes in which the
parents resided were to be inserted. He also requested the
various Societies of Baptists, the Society of Friends, and Jews,

and others, who do not dispense the ordinance of baptism of

infants, to favour him with the above particulars relative to
children born to members of their societies, and at maturity. He
had the satisfaction of receiving returns from the whole ; as also
an account of the children of parents who, while disapproving
of infant baptism, did not belong to any religious society; when
it appeared  that in the city and suburbs there were  6397 children
baptized or                                           number there
             born to Baptists, &c, and that of that
were only 3225 inserted in the parochial registers, leaving un

registered 3172.          --Although      in  Scotland  there   is  no

   Concerning Marriages.
marriage act as in England, restricting the solemnization of
marriages to clergymen of the Established Church, this ordinance
can only be regularly celebrated by persons duly called to the
pastoral office, and not until a certificate of the proclamation of

banns has been produced.

   Persons irregularly married are deprived of the privileges of
the Church till they appear before the Session, acknowledge their
fault, and are reponed. From this circumstance, in connexion
with the solicitude of the female and her friends to have the mar

riage registered, the marriage register of Glasgow and its suburbs
                correct  f--orTahlel  statistical purposes.
may be held as  Deaths.                 deaths are ascertained  by the
    Concerning
number of burials. The burying-grounds in the city and
suburbs are placed under the management of fourteen wardens.
These officers, who attend every funeral, enter in a memorandum
book, at the grave, the name, age, and designation of the person
buried, along with the amount of fee received, and the name of
the undertaker. Having taken these and other particulars, the
wardens afterwards enter the whole in a book, classified con

formably to a printed schedule drawn up by Dr. Cleland. At

the end of the year they furnish him with an abstract from their
books ; and it is from a combination of these abstracts that he
ascertains the number of deaths at the various ages. The abs
tract includes still-born children, and the deaths of Jews and
members of the Society of Friends, who have separate burying-

places.         the  Population       of  Glasgotv  and its Suburbs. --
    Concerning
Having been appointed to take the sole charge of conducting
the enumeration and classifying the population of the city of
Glasgow and suburbs for the Government census of 1831, the
TRANSACTION'S OF THE SECTIONS.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           687

author employed twelve parochial beadles, nineteen mercantile
clerks, and one superintendent of police to take up the lists. Be
fore the books were prepared, an advertisement was put in the
ten Glasgow newspapers, requesting the inhabitants to favour him
with their suggestions as to classification j and before the list-
takers commenced their operations, bills were posted on the
public places and dwelling-houses of the city, informing the in
habitants of the nature of the inquiries, and that they had no
reference to taxes ; and, moreover, that noncompliance, or
giving a false return, subjected them to a fine. When the books
were returned, the public, through the medium of the press,
were requested to call at an office, appointed for the purpose,
and to correct any omission or error which might have been
made in their returns.

   The list-takers having made oath before the Lord Provost
that the name of every householder in the district assigned to
them had, with the other particulars, been faithfully entered in
a book, the author proceeded to classification, and to the forma
tion of tables and abstracts for each parish, containing numerous
details not required for the Government digest.

 Bill of Mortality from 14M Dec. 1829, to 15th Dec. 1830.

A General List of Births, Baptisms, Marriages, and Burials, within the ten
   Parishes of Glasgow, and the Suburban Parishes of Barony and Gorbals.

Births and Baptisms detailed thus :                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Of whom have died.

/Returns from Clergymen 1     Males. Females. Total-                                                                                                                                                                                                Still-born  _             Males.Females.Total.
   and Lay Pastors.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 UnIdearndonuendyeerar 3,       246 325 471
Add still-born, from do.        TM32,8.1 3,,."If°i m03oB77                                                                                                                                                                                                                         483 414 877
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   316 307 633
                              . 346       236          471                                                                                                                                                                                          3 5,                           263 237 500
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   134 110 353
                           Total 3537     3>.3..4".1'  6888                                                                                                                                                                                         5 10,
IOf this number there were 1                                                                                                                                                                                                                        10          30,           144
   registered only            1.,,0.7,,»               ,3_2_2,5                                                                                                                                                                                     30          30,           180   133  276
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    145  334
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    30 40, 169 144 313
/Number unregistered ex- 1                ^I5fi9                                                                                                                                                                                                    40 50, 184 164 348
  elusive of still-born.      I0m03                    31<a                                                                                                                                                                                         JO          Ho, 177 175 353
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    80          70, 168 171 339
JfBBBBByyyyyInCdleepTrgeddddhynooooemd.... ecenhntilsd,ooooroefffffntMtttthhhhheeeeeewtheBSSCRorecdehoeocliumisteebrtcacsfsahhsnpiCotaEihCnoznpueafdiCrdstSchhcohcoouatolprshitccaelfhalornClldhodCwuehrnusco,rhcm.vh.l.i,-i".)(.3-9661.1,673,5143  --75 60, 55 58 113
   nations, including births among Baptists, So-                                                                                                                                                                                                    70 75, 109 102 211
   ciety of Friends, Jews, Sec.                                                                                                                                                                                                                     --80
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    --85
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     90         85,           48    48   96
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     95         90,           24    26   50
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 96,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    -- --Oi--l100100,         9     10   19
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              3      6    9

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ----
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Total 2701 3484 5185

                                          Totalis

Marriages engrossed in the registers                   of the City, Barony, and Gorbals.

                           In the City                                 857
                              Barony                                   691
                              Gorbals                                  371

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Total 1919
f,S8 FOURTH REPORT -- 1834.

Burials engrossed in the registers of the City, Barony, and Gorbals
                                      Itu ry ing-grounds.

                                         MalM. Femalea. ToUl.

                 January                 273 268 511

                 February                226 223 419
                 March                   218 207 425
                 April                   208 184 392

                 May                     185           175   360
                 June                    200           178   378
                 July                                  182
                 August                  194           206   376
                                         232                 438

                 September               240           229   469
                 October                 236           184   420

                 November                234 189 423
                 December                255 259 514

                                      Total 2701       2484  5185

                 Total Burials within the City               1951
                 Total Burial s in Barony Parish ...         1 83 1
                 In Gorbals Burying Ground                   1403

                                Total Burials in City and Suburbs 5185

  Classified List of the Ages of Persons in Glasgow and the
            Suburban Parishes of Barony and Gorbals.

Ages of persons in Glasgow and in the suburban parishes of
               Barony and Gorbals, for the census of 1831.

                 5 I0 15 20 30 40 50 60 7" m                                   100
                 to to to to to to to to 10 u. In and Total.
Under 5.         10. IS. 20. 30. 40. 50. 60. "0.                             KM upw.

                                      1                                        1 mm
    Malm, 15422  1312710491 8481)1517712179 86g5 5549 32*4:11190ft
Femalei, 14855                     1           1                               4 108702
                 11580 10721v1i-iM    230O814240 9329  6099 3692 154a 3*.:,  
                                                                               1 202426
                          11

Total 30*77                                            [        Ml           
                 *5707 2121120745381852611(1180141161859202592

   Crnicerning the probability of Human Life in Glasgow. --

The author states that he endeavoured to obtain from the
medical gentlemen a note of the diseases of which their patients
died during the period in which he had requested the clergy to
give a note of the baptisms, but succeeded only with a small
portion of the members of the faculty, and suggests that every
attempt to accomplish this object, so interesting in a medical
point of view, will fail, till a compulsory act regarding parochial
registers be obtained.

   That Glasgow is a place of average health for statistical pur
poses may be inferred from the daily state of the weather, which
the author published in 1831, by which it appeared that the
                 TRANSACTIONS OF THE SUCTIONS.                                      689

average quantity of rain which fell yearly during thirty years
preceding that period, amounted to rather less than twenty-three
inches. But more particularly, the degree of health may be
known, and tables formed for ascertaining the probability of
human life, from a series of the Mortality Bills, where the age
of the living and that of persons who have died are narrated in
connexion with the population, and a table of longevity for Scot
land which the author prepared in 1821 ; by which it appeared
that, on an average of all the counties of Scotland, there was
one person eighty years of age for every                                  of the popu
lation ; while in the county of Lanark,                           143T9^  population of
                                                                  with a

316,790, including 263,046 who live in towns, viz. in Glasgow
202,426, and in other towns 60,620, there was one such person
for every 169-j^, showing a degree of health in the population
of Glasgow nearly equal to that of the whole of Scotland.
The following results have reference to Glasgow and its sub
urbs, which partake of a mercantile and manufacturing popula-
t.on, or something between Liverpool and Manchester, the town
population being 198,518, and the rural 3908.
In 1831 the population was found to be 202,426, the burials
5185, and the rate of mortality consequently 39T^. The births
being 6868, there is one birth for every 29T%7n persons. The num
ber of marriages being 1919, there are 3r5Jv births to each
marriage, and one marriage for every 105T*jy8ff persons. The num
ber of   families                                                 persons to each
family.            being 41,965, there are 4T80%                  with the same
           It is   very satisfactory to know that
machinery in 1821, the population being 147,043, the burials
3686, the rate of mortality was ascertained to be 39T80-90-, or in
other words as near as may be to the mortality in 1831. By
reference to the Bills of Mortality between the years 1821 and
1831, similar results will be found.

  It appears from all the authentic Bills of Mortality the author
has ever seen, that there are more males born than females, but

taking the population above fifteen years the number of females
preponderates. The following results for Glasgow are derived
from the census of 1831 :

Births-- Males,                          3527 Females, 3311 excess of Males,        188

Males under 5 years,                     15422 Females, 14855 excess of Males,      567

Males under 10 years,                    28549 Females, 27435 excess of Males,      1114

Males under 15 years,                    39040 Females, 38155 excess of Males,      885

Males under 20 years,                    47529 Females, 50411 excess of Females, 2882

Males under 30 years,                    62706 Females, 73419 excess of Females, 10713

BMuarlieasls----enMtiarelesP,opulation,  93724   Females, 108702  excess of Females, 14978
                                           2701  Females, 2484
                                                                  excess of Males,  217

Description a/HouseAhDoDldEeNrDs.A--FMOaRrrie18d31m. en 30,032 . Widowers
1790. Bachelors 1437. Male householders 33,259. Widows
                                                 2y
1834.
690                  FOURTH REPORT-- 1834.

6834. Spinster* 1882. Female householders 8706. Total
families 41,965.
   Countries to which the Population      belongs.         -- Scotch             163,600.
                   Irish 35,554.
English 2919.   the Population.   --FEosrteaibglnisehresd  353. Total 202,426.
   Religion of                                              104,162. Dissenters,
Episcopalians and Jews 7 1,299. Roman Catholics 26,965.
Total 202,426.

   Number of Paupers and expense of maintaining them. --The
number of paupers in the city and suburbs being 5006, and the
population 202,426, there is one pauper for every 40^*^.
   The number of paupers being 5006, and the sum expended
for their maintenance   or  9r*e.l0ie\fd1. 7,2I8f1/t.he18ss.u0m\df.o, rshtohwes  the cost
of each pauper to be   3/.                                                       relief of

paupers were equally paid by the whole non-recipient population,
the proportion to each would be one shilling and ninepence and
a small fraction. The sum of 17,281/. 18«. O^tf. includes the
entire expenditure of the out- and in-door paupers, surgeon's

salaries, medicines, clothing and educating children, maintaining
lunatics, funeral charges, &c.
The cost of each pauper in St. John's parish is 3/. 8s. 10\d.
The poor in that parish are maintained or relieved on the paro
chial system introduced by Dr. Chalmers in 1820, i. e. by the
Kirk Session from its own resources, without receiving any part
of the general assessment for the poor, although the inhabitants
of St. John's parish are assessed for the maintenance of the poor
generally in the same manner as other citizens.

Analysis of the Report of an Agent employed by the Manchester
   Statistical Society in 1 834, to visit the Dwellings and ascertain
  the condition of the Working Population in Police Division
  No. 2, and in thefirst Subdivision of Police Division No. 1,
  of the Town of Manchester*. Communicated by the Society.
   The agent having been refused admittance into some houses,
and the occupiers of others being absent and their dwellings
closed, his report only extends to 4102 families, but which num
ber comprises all the labouring population within this district
into whose houses he obtained access.
   The Report on the condition of the dwellings must be consi
dered merely as the general impression of the agent, an intelli
gent Irishman, who was himself a hand-loom weaver, and who

in this classification has been principally guided by the appear
ance of cleanliness or otherwise in the dwellings.

  All the other entries are stated from the answers given by the

parties themselves.

· The population of this portion of the town is (according to the census of
        42,135 or 8932 families. It is a  district inhabited more   than any other
1831)                                     by those of the poorest
in the  town by the working classes and                            description. It

was on that account determined to commence the investigation in this quarter.
cS                              3             ·                         :I                        a
               8 !!                                                                      """'
                                   *'::::                                  j:
                     :  :S:  :£:                  ! Ji i j      | i ;:            £: :: :  :

II1 a i                           a -3! ·; I:1 :        E fS g E        5-3 \l
                                              !1 j

      8   ! '.                    a\\\\                                 --ao c
Q? m  til! id·SziSiial! K* nil iijifiji
         i

                                              i   !

         ?e

                                                                         n
                                                    J!

                                                        n

                                                                           a£ =

                                                                                      1
                                                                                              : : »s
         !e                S--Hi                                                  *!
            ;                                                           -5 ·-
                           Si
               si&                                                                 cEi
                           So                                           MC <i 3 1?
                                              II                        zIS z12 z11

      58&SS5&s8"liai5l

ft 1  as

aaS-  c  

a           soiooceeoio

      : : :pill
               £
                 3 «i82
                             il
         55i

         -c .2

          m

U

         C
      S51
(5
      sea
      111

            llll

      111?

      RSSS10 mi

                                    Y
                                              2
                                                      2
   U92 FOURTH REPORT 1834.

   Notice  of  the ' New Statistical  Account of Scotland.'  By Mr.
                  Gordon, Secretary
                                        to the Committee.

   There is now in progress and in the course of publication a
   periodical work descriptive of the parochial statistics of Scot
   land at the present time, under the title of The New Statisti
   cal Account  of Scotland.
                                      upwards  of forty years ago by
     A similar  work was produced
   the exertions of Sir John Sinclair, Bart., to whose enlightened
   enterprise so many of the most useful institutions in this country
   owe their existence or their improvement.
   The two works resemble each other in the important circum

   stance that every parish has been treated by itself, and that the
   parochial accounts have been furnished by the ministers of the
   respective parishes. They resemble each other, also, in incor
   porating, as a relief to matters more strictly statistical, detached
   notices of the chief historical events, of the eminent characters,
   and of the remains of antiquity connected with the parishes.
   They differ from each other, 1st, in the arrangement, which in
   the new work presents the parishes placed together under their
   respective counties, while the matter of each parochial account
   is treated under the same heads in uniform succession ; 2nd, in

   the greater expansion which the whole department of natural
   history, under the several branches of meteorology, hydrogra
   phy, geology, zoology, and botany, has received in the new
   work; and, 3rd, in the statistical details themselves, which,
   from the changes that have taken place within the last forty
   years, are found to be so different from those of the former work

   as to render the present almost entirely new.

     It may be added, that each parochial account in the new work
   observes the following general divisions : 1. Geography and Na
   tural History; 2. Civil History; 3. Population; 4. Industry;
   5. Parochial (Economy. That the first and second of these
   divisions have the advantage of elucidation from county maps ;
   that to each county there is appended a tabular summary of

   whatever particulars belonging to the several parishes are capa
   ble of being exhibited in a tabular form, together with some
   general observations applicable to the whole county, and not an
   ticipated under individual parishes.
      To this useful labour the clergy of the Church of Scotland
   have on this occasion been invited, not, as formerly, by an in
   dividual, but by the Society instituted to promote the interests
   of their sons and daughters ; and it is honourable to the clergy
   that they have not only been cordially disposed to return to the

-
                        TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.

task, but that they have returned to it with a manifest increase
of accomplishment for every part of its performance.

    Three numbers of the work already published are now pre
sented to the Association. Without specifying any portion of
the statistical results which they have established, it may be
noticed generally that the accounts are so uniformly complete
on certain essential points, as to have furnished a set of tables,
representing in every parish the quantity of cultivated and un
cultivated land ; the amount of agricultural produce ; the dif
ferent descriptions of the population ; the ecclesiastical state of
the parishes, as indicated by the various numbers of the several
religious denominations, with the provisions for their respective
clergy ; the state of education, as shown by the number of
teachers, and of the young in the course of receiving instruction ;
the number of the poor, and the amount of the provision made
for them from the different sources of voluntary contribution,

endowment, and assessment. At the same time, these are but

the items which admit of being presented in a tabular form, and
there is besides in each account a great variety of interesting
notices on the several branches of natural and civil history.

Remarks on the Statistical Reports regarding Agriculture.

                    By Earl Fitzwilliam, F.R.S.

    The expediency of furnishing more minute details with respect
to the agricultural part of statistical reports was suggested in
these remarks. The statements ought to show not only the
total amount of land in cultivation, but also the quantities allotted
at the time of the inquiry to the various kinds of produce, the
number and value of agricultural implements, the number of
draught and other cattle, and similar details. Lord Fitzwilliam
stated that he had succeeded in obtaining such returns for some
parishes in his own neighbourhood, and observed, that accurate
and minutely detailed information for only a small number of
places would furnish more safe grounds for correct inferences
than could be obtained from a more widely extended, but less
precise inquiry.

   The Rev. E. Stanley undertook to prosecute such an inquiry

in his own parish (in Cheshire), and to furnish the results at the
next meeting of the Association.
                              INDEX.

Proceedings of the General Meeting,               Andrews (T.) on some caves in Rath-      ;
  is.                                                lin and adjoining coast of Antrim,         a

General Committee, xxvi.                              660.                                                        it it,
                                                  Anhydrous acid, proportions of in
Proceedings of the Committee of Re
    commendations, xxx.                               acetic acid, 571.
        of the Committees of Science,             Animal Kingdom, on the primary
   xxxii.
                                                     types of form and other leading di
         of the Sectional Meetings, xli.             visions in the, 149 on the several
Appropriation of Funds, xl.                          classes in the, 159.

Abercrombie (Dr.), address at gene                _Annulose animals, present state of
   ral meeting, xxiii ; on the import                 knowledge respecting, 185,608.
   ance to the medical profession of              Antimony, chemical composition of
   the study of mental philosophy, 670.
Acetic acid, proportions of anhydrous                the crystallized oxichloride of, 587.
   acid in, 571.                                  Arnott (G. A. W.) on the Coccultit

Achromatic object-glasses, on the con                Indians of commerce, 597.
   struction of, 593.                             Arteries leading to inflamed parts,

Achromatism of the eye, 548.                         vital properties of, 674.
                                                  Atmosphere, on the quantity of car
Addams (R.) on a new phenomenon
   of sonorous interference, 557.                     bonic acid in the, 583.
                                                  Attraction, capillarv, on the theory
Adie (A. J.) on the expansion of stone
                                                      of, 253.
   by the application of heat, 569.
                                                  Barometer, on a peculiar oscillation of
Agassiz (M.) on the different species                 the, 569.
   of the genus Salmo, 617.
        on thefossil fishes of Scotland, 646.     Bell (Sir C.) on the proper method
                                                      of studying the nervous system,
Agriculture, on statistical reports re
                                                      667.
   garding, 693.                                  Berwickshire, geology of, 624.,,
Aitkin (Dr.) on the mechanism by                  Blood, on the state of our information

   which the blood may be accelerated                 respecting the, 116.
   or retarded, 681.                                       on the powers which circulate

Alison (Dr.) on the vital properties of                129.
   arteries leading to inflamed parts,                      on the mechanism by which

674.                                                  may be accelerated or retarded, 681.
                                                  Blood-vessels of the porpoise, anatomy
on the irritability of muscles in
living animals, 673.                                  of the, 682.
Alluvial deposits, 8 ; alluvial terraces,
                                                  Botany, 596.
10; ancient alluvium, 18.                         Brewster (Sir D.) on remarkable

Amber, on a remarkable specimen of,                   specimen of amber, 574.
                                                           on the value of optical charac
574.                          1
                                      of,             ters in the discrimination of mineral
America (North), on the geology            1   .      species, 575.
                                                  Brisbane (Sir T. M.) on an apparent
,     physical geography of, .                        anomaly in the measure of rain, 560.
                                                  Broughton (Mr.) on the sensibilities
Anatomy, 667.                                         of the cerebral nerves, 676.
Andes, on the ancient inhabitants of

the, 623.
696 INDEX.

Brown (Dr. R.) on the plurality and         Crustacea, stote of our knowledge of
    development of embryos in the               the, 191.
    seeds of Coniferce, 596.                       , on the transformations of the,
                                                608.
Bryce (J.) on some caverns containing
                                           Crystals, oblique prismatical, on the
    bones, near the Giant's Causeway,          positions of the axes of optical elas
    658.                                       ticity in, 556.

Canals, on the mean velocity of water      Dalyell (G.) on the propagation of
    running in, 424.                           certain Scottish zoophytes, 598.

Capillary attraction, on the theory of,    Daubeny (Dr.) on excretions from the
    253.                                       roots of vegetables, 598.

Carbonic acid in the atmosphere, on        Dent (E. J.) on a chronometer with a
    the quantity of, 583.
                                               glass balance-spring, 595.
Caverns containing bones, near the         Dick (D.)on the construction of achro

--Giant's Causeway, 658.                       matic object-glasses, 593.
         in the island of Rathlin and ad
   joining coast of Antrim, 660.           Dick ( Mr.) on the use of the omentum,

Challis (Rev. J.) on the theory of ca          683.
                                           Diluvial action over North America,
    pillary attraction, 253.
         on some facts relating to the          14.

    composition of the colours of the      Dipping-needle, method of observing
    spectrum, 544.                             the dip and the force by the same
Chemical equivalents, application of a
    vernier to Wollaston's scale of, 596.      observation, 557.
Chemical products, new, 582.               Distillation, destructive, examination
Chemistry, 571.
Christie (Prof.) on a peculiar and well-      of the products of, 591.
    defined light, in the form of a ray,   Dunn (J.) on a new klinometer and
   from the sun, 566.
Chronometer, with a glass balance-            portable surveying instrument,
                                               594.
    spring, 595.                           Dynamics, application to, of a general
Clark (Dr.) on the application of the          mathematical method previously ap
                                              plied to optics, 513.
   hot blast to the production of cast
    iron, 578.                             Elastic bodies, imperfect, on the col
Clark (Dr. W.) on animal physiology,           lision of, 534.
    95.
                                           Electricity of the copper vein in Huel
Clarke (Dr. J.), abstract of a registry        Jewel mine, on the, 572.
   kept in the Lying-in Hospital, Dub
                                           Embryos, on their plurality and de
   lin, 685.                                   velopment in the seeds of Conifera,
Cleland (Dr.), statistics of Glasgow,          596.

    686.                                   Endemics, their production and causes,
Clouds, nature and origin of, 564.             88.
Coal-fields of Scotland, on the, 640.
Cocculut Indicut of commerce, 597.         Entomology, 205, 615.
                                           Epidemics, their general phenomena,
Coleopterous insects of Sutherland,
                                              and dependence on atmospheric
    615.                                       changes, 90.
Colours of the spectrum, on some facts     Expansion of stone by the application
                                              of heat, 569.
   relating to the composition of, 544.    Eye, on the achromatism of the, 548.
Combustion, phenomena and products
                                           Fitzwilliam (Earl) on statistical re
   of a low form of, 588.                     ports regarding agriculture, 693.
Coniferce, plurality and development
                                           Fomites, 79.
   of embryos in the seeds of, 596.        Forbes (Prof.), address at General
Contagion, on the laws of, 67.
Copper vein, on the electricity of a,         Meeting, xi.
                                                   on a new sympicsomclcr, 593.
    572.
                                 INDEX.                                                 697

Fossils, 23, 41, 61, 646, 652, 654, 660,  Gregory (Dr.), abstract of Dr. Reich-
                                             enbach's discoveries in destructive
    666.
                                             distillation, 591.
Fox (R. W.) on the electricity of the     Gulf of Mexico, raised estuary forma
   copper vein in Huel Jewel mine,
                                             tions of the, 13.
    572.
Functions, calculus of principal, 513;    Hail, origin of, 566.
                                          Hailstone (Rev. J.) on peculiar os
   conjugate, 519 ; exponential, 523.
                                             cillation of the barometer, 569.
                                          Hall (Dr.) on the sensibilities of the

                                             cerebral nerves, 676.
Geography, physical, of North Ame         ,
rica, 1.                                                                            a
                                                                                     a
Geology of Berwickshire, 624.

of North America, 1.                      Hamilton (Prof.) on the application
                                             to dynamics of general mathe
     of the great mountain range of       matical method previously applied
the South of Scotland, 650.

of the Orkneys, 644.                      to optics, 513.
of the Pentland Hills, 649.               on conjugate functions, or alge-.
   , on the change of level of the
land and sea in Scandinavia, 652.         braic couples, as tending to illus
                                          trate the doctrine of imaginary
, on marine shells of recent spe
                                          quantities, 519.
                                          Harcourt (Rev. W. V.) on the effects
cies, at considerable elevations, 655.       of long-continued heat on mineral

, on some caverns near the Giant's

Causeway, in the island of Rathlin,       and organic substances, 576.
and the adjoining coast of Antrim,
                                          Heart's action, cause of the, 137.

659, 661.                                 Heat, expansion of stone by, 569.

, on the coal-fields of Scotland,         long-continued, its effects on mi
,,
                                 it,
                                                                                       ,,
                                                                                                                             by
639.                                       --neral and organic substances, 576.

, on the limestone of Closeburn,          -- on the repulsion excited between

651.                                      surfaces at minute distances                                                           the

, on the old red sandstone and the        action of, 549.

formations beneath  652.                  Henry (Dr. W.) on the laws of con

      on the ossiferous beds of the       tagion, 67.

Forth, Clyde, and Tay, 642.               Hibbert (Dr.) on the ossiferous beds
                                             of the Forth, the Clyde, and the
      on the relations of mineral veins

and the non-metalliferous joints in       Tay, 642.

rocks, 655.                               Hodgkin (Dr.) on the effects of poi
                                             sons on the animal ceconomy, 682.
Gilbertson (W.) on marine shells of
recent species, at considerable ele       Hodgkinson (E.) on the collision of
vations, near Preston, 654.               imperfectly elastic bodies, 534.

Glands, orbital, in birds, 609.           Howard (L.) on the difference of the
                                             quantity of rain at different heights,
Glasgow, statistics of, 685.

Gordon (A.) on the polyzonal lens,        563.

595.                                      Hydraulic engineering, its progress in

Gordon (Mr.) on the New Statistical       England with reference to rivers,
   Account of Scotland', 692.
                    '
                                                                                    a
Graham (Prof.) on hydrated salts and      canals, and drainage, 473.
   metallic peroxides, and on the doc     Hydraulics as branch of engineer
   trine of isomerism, 579.               ing, state of our knowledge of, 415.
                                              in France, Germany, and En
Grave3 (J. T.) on the theory of expo
                                             gland, present state of, 447.
   nential functions, 523.                Hydrodynamics, on the reduction of

Gray (W. jun.) on the quantities of       an anomalous fact in, 531.
   rain falling at different elevations
                                          Hygrometer, Leslie's, on the use of,
above the surface of the ground at
York, 560.                                569.

Greenock (Lord) on the coal-fields of     Ichthyology, 179,613, 617.
   Scotland, 639.                         Imaginary quantities, on conjugate
INDEX.

   functions, or algebraic couples, as il-   Lowe (G.) on some new chemical
' lustrating the doctrine of, 519.              products obtained in gas-works,
India, on mean temperatures in, 567.
Inoculation, 73.                                 582.
Interference, sonorous, new pheno
                                             Lungs, on their infiltration with black
    menon of, 557.                               matter, 683.
Iron, cast, application of the hot blast
 to the production of, 578.                  Lyell (C.) on the change of level of the
Isomerism, on the doctrine of, 579.             land and sea in Scandinavia, 652.

Jameson (Prof.) on the fossil fish Ce-       Macgillivray (W.) on the central por
   phalatpis, 646.                              tion of the great mountain range of
                                                the South of Scotland, 650.
Jardine (Sir W.) on the Salmonidee
    of the North-west of Sutherland-         Maclaren (Mr.) on the geology of
    shire, 613.                                 the Pentland Hills, 649.

Jenyns (Rev. L.) on the recent pro           Magnetical observations in Ireland,
   gress and present state of zoology,
                                             account of, 557.
     143.
                                             Manchester, statistics of, 690.
Johnston (J. F. W.) on the chemical
                                             Mathematical instruments, 593.
    composition of the crystallized oxi-
. chloride of antimony, 587.                 Mathematics, 513.
Joints, on excision of diseased, 684.
                                             Mechanical arts, 593.
Klinometer, new, 594.
Knight (Dr.) notice of the flints of         Mental philosophy, its importance to
                                                the medical profession, 670.
    Aberdeenshire, 651.
                                             Menteath (C. G. S.) on the limestone
Lens, polyzonal, 595.                           of Closeburn, 651.
Leslie's hygrometer, on the use of, 569.
Light, on the theory of its absorption       Meteorology, 560.
                                             Miasms, or marshy exhalations, on, 89.
    by coloured media, 550.                  Miller (Prof.) on the positions of the
       , on the theory of its dispersion by
                                                axes of optical elasticity in oblique
    the hypothesis of undulations, 549.
        , state of our knowledge of the         prismatical crystals, 556.
                                             Milne (D.) on the geology of Berwick
    physical theory of, 295.
          (uupolarized), propagation of,         shire, 624.

    297 ; principle of interference, 303 ;   Mineral species, on the value of opti
   reflexion and refraction of, 305 ; dif       cal characters in the discrimination
   fraction, 323 ; colours of thin plates,
. 338.                                       of, 575.

         (polarized), polarization, 350;     Mineral substances, effects of long
    transversal vibrations, 352; reflexion   continued heat on, 576.
    and refraction of, 356; double re
   fraction, 375 ; colours of crystalline    Mineral veins and the non-metallifer
    plates, 395.
Lighthouses, an ceconomical light for,       ous joints in rocks, on the relations
    595.
Limestone of Closeburn, on the, 651.         of, 654.
Lloyd (Prof.) on the progress and pre
   sent state of physical optics, 295.       Mineralogy, 571.
                                             Mississippi river, on the recent changes
       , account of magnetical observa          in the, 9.
   tions in Ireland, and of a new me
   thod of observing the dip and the         Molluscous animals, present state of
   force with the same instrument,
· 557.                                       knowledge respecting, 213.
                                             Moon, on her visibility in total eclipses,

                                             552.

                                             Murchison (R. I.) on the old red

                                                sandstone and the formations be

                                             neath  it,  652.

                                             Natural history, 596.
                                             Nerves, cerebral, on the sensibilities

                                                 of, 676.
                                             Nervous system, on the proper method

                                                of studying the, 667.
                                             Nervous system and the irritability of
INDEX.                                                     699

   muscles in living animals, on the                       Rain, on the quantities falling at dif
   connexion between, 671.                                    ferent elevations, at York, 560.
Nicol (W.) on the anatomical struc                                , on the difference of the quantity
   ture of recent and fossil woods,                            at different heights, 563.
    660.                                                          , origin of, 565.

Object-glasses, achromatic, 593.                           Reichenbach (Dr.) on the products of
Omentum, on the use of the, 683.                               destructive distillation, 591.
Optical elasticity in oblique prismati-
                                                           Reid (Dr. J.) on the connexion be
   cal crystals, on the positions of the                       tween the nervous system and the
                                                              irritability of muscles in living ani
    axes of, 556.                                              mals, 671.
Optical characters, their value in the                     Reindeer, on the laryngeal sac of the,

   discrimination of mineral species,                          623.
    575.
Optics, physical, on, 295.                                 Rennie (G.) on the state of our know
Organic substances, effects of long-                          ledge of hydraulics as a branch of
   continued heat on, 576.                                     engineering, 415.
Orkney Islands, geology of, 644.                                    on an instrument for taking up
Ornithology, 167, 610.
Oxichloride of antimony, crystallized,                         water at great depths, 595.
   chemical composition of, 587.                           Reptiles, on the natural arrangement

Pentland (J. B.) on the ancient inha                           of, 172.

   bitants of the Andes, 623.                              Repulsion, excited between surfaces
Peroxides, metallic, 579.                                     at minute distances by the action of
Phaenogamous plants of the Faroe Is                            heat, 549.

    lands, 598.                                            Resistance of fluids, on a new law of,
Phillips (Prof.) on the quantities of
                                                               531.
   rain falling at different elevations                    Rivers, application of the science of
   above the surface of the ground at
   York, 560.                                                 hydraulics to, 425.
                                                                  , forms of the surface of, 468.
        on the relations of mineral veins
   and the non-metalliferous joints in                     Robinson (Rev. Dr.) on the visibility
    rocks, 654.                                               of the moon in total eclipses, 552.
Physics, 531.
Physiology, 95, 667.                                       Rogers (H. D.) on the geology of North
Poisons, contagious, on, 73.                                   America, 1.

       , morbid, generated by the animal                   Ruppell (Dr.) on the effects of poisons
    body, 69.                                                  on the animal ceconomy, 681.

       , their effects on the animal oeco-                 Russell (J. S.) on the reduction of an
    nomy, 681.
Porpoise, anatomy of the blood-ves                            anomalous fact in hydrodynamics,
   sels of the, 682.                                          and on a new law of the resistance
Powell (Prof.) on the achromatism of                          of fluids, 531.
    the eye, 548.
                                                           Salmonidtr of the North-west of Suther-
        on the dispersion of light by the                     landshire, on the, 613 ; on the dif
   hypothesis of undulations, 549.                            ferent species which frequent the
                                                               rivers and lakes of Europe, 617.
        , on the repulsion excited between
    surfaces at minute distances by the                    Salts, hydrated, 579.
    action of heat, 549.                                   Sedgwick (Prof.), address at general

Radiate animals, state of our know                             meeting, ix.
Raliend,geonreasnpeacptpinargentthe,tu2iu2iu7u. iy In the
                                                           Selby (P. J.) on the orbital glands in
    measure of, 560.
                                                               birds, 609.
                                                           Sharpey (Dr.) on the anatomy of the

                                                               blood-vessels of the porpoise, 682.
                                                           Shells, marine, at considerable eleva

                                                               tions near Preston, 655.
                                                           Statistics of Glasgow, 685.

                                                                    of Manchester, 690.

                                                                   , regarding agriculture, 693.
700 INDEX.

Statistics, on the ' New Statistical Ac     United States, geology of the, 6.
   count of Scotland', 692.                         , fossil mammalia of the, 23.

Stevelly (Prof.), attempt to connect        Veins, mineral, 572, 654.
   the best known phenomena of me           Vertebrate animals, state of our know
   teorology with established physical
                                                ledge respecting, 160.
--principles, 564.
      - on the application of a vernier to  Water at great depths, an instrument
   a scale not of equal, but of variable
    parts, 596.                             for taking up, 595.
Stone, on its expansion by the appli
                                            Watson (H. H.) on the use of Leslie's
   cation of heat, 569.                        hygrometer with a new scale, 569.
Surveying instrument, portable, 594.        on the quantity of carbonic acid
Sykes (Lt-Col.) on mean tempera             in the atmosphere, 583.
                                            Westwood (J. O.) on the transforma
   tures in India, 567.
Syme (Prof.) on excision of diseased           tions of the Crustacea, 608.
                                            Whewell (Rev. W.) on the theory of
   joints, 684.                                the absorption of light by coloured
Sympiesometer, new, 593.
                                              J.media, 550.        B.) on the phae-
Temperature, mean, in India, 567.
Tertiary formations, 29, 49.                Williams (Dr. C.
Thames, on the course, dimensions,          nomena and products of a low form
                                            of combustion, 588.
   inclinations, and velocities of the,
                                            Wilson (J.) on the coleopterous in
    486.
                                               sects of Sutherland, 615.
Thomson (Dr. A.) remarks on some
   specimens of reptiles, 623.              Wind, origin of, 565.
                                            Wollaston's scale of chemical equiva
Thomson (Dr. W.) on the infiltration        lents, application of a vernier to,
    of the lungs with black matter, and
    on black expectoration, 683.            596.

Toorn (A. van der), table of the pro        Wood, recent and fossil, anatomical
    portions of anhydrous acid in acetic
                                            structure of, 660.
    acid, 571.
                                            Zoology, 598.
Traill (Dr.) on the laryngeal sac of                , on the recent progress and pre

    the reindeer, 623.                          sent state of, 143.
         on the geological structure of     Zoophytes, state of our knowledge of,

    the Orkney Islands, 644.                    236.
Trevelyan (W. C.) on the phaenoga-
                                                    , Scottish, on the propagation of,
    mous plants of the Faroe Islands,           598.
    598.

THE END.

Printed by Richard Taylor, Red Lion Court, Fleet Street.
                                        Albemarle Street, July, 1835.

NEW BOOKS OF THE SEASON,

                                                AND

                   NEW EDITIONS,
            PUBLISHED BY MB. MUBBAY.

                     The First Five Volumes of

  BOSWELL'S LIFE OF JOHNSON,

            A NEW EDITION, HATING FOE ITS GROUNDWORK

     Mr. Croker's Edition of BoswelFs Johnson,

With all his Elucidations and Improvements, calculated to
   throw light upon obsolete facts and allusions hitherto ob
  scure, to supply omissions, and to render Boswell perfectly
   intelligible to readers of the present day. Containing also all
 TOO                                                                                                  J

 Statistics,                          mr. Murray's list.
     count <
                                               (BosweU's Johnson')
 Stevelly           the Best Notes of other Editors* Ac. With an original
     the in -       whole-length Portrait, and Views illustrative of the actual
                    localities of Da. Johnson's Life, from Drawings made by
     teoroloi
     princip        C. SrANriELD, R. A. Vols. I. to V. Price 5s. each, bound.

           on t     List o1 Person* toko haveVacorinotrruibmuteEdditIinofonr.mation or Notes to this
    a Male
     part*, .'      Rt Hon.J.W. Croker,          Anderson,                  Dr. Parr,
 Stone, on                                       Bishop of Derry,           Cumberland,
     cation i       Sir Walter Scott,            Mrs Thrale,                Northcote,
                    Lord Stowell,                Hawkins,                   Lord Byron,
 Surveying          Lord Rokeby,                 Miw Hawkins,               Giffbrd,
                    Rev. Dr. Hall,               Miss Burney,               Murphy,
Sykes (L            Dr. Harwood,                 Hannah More,               Dr. Burney,
    tures ii        Maclcod oi Maclcod,          Miss Reynolds,             Steevens,
                    Bishop of Ferna,             Nichols,                   The Wartons,
Syme (Pi            Mr. D' Israeli,              Mai one,                   Southey,
    joints,         Lord Wcllesley,              Langton,                   Lock hart,
                    Lord Bexley,                 Bos well, Jun.             Coleridge,
Sympieao            Lord I-anidowne,             Chalmers,                  Campbell,
                    Lord St. Helens,             Seward, W.                 Mr. Upcott's MSS.
Tempera!                                         Sir Brooke Boothby,
Tertiary I          MEaarrkl laSnpde,nceJr., H.
Thames,
                    " A work to which the world refers as a manual of amuse
    inclinal        ment, a repository of wit, wisdom, and morals, and a lively
    486.            and faithful history of the manners and literature of England,
Thomson                                                                                       superior in
                    during a period   hardly      second in     agberiloliaf nAcny,ne.a"n--d   The Right
    tpecimi         importance, even  to the     Augustan
Thomson             Hon. John Wilson Croeer.

   of the 1         Mr. Burke told Sir James Mackintosh, that he thought
                    Dr. Johnson showed more powers of mind in company than
    on blac
                    in his writings, and         that he   --appHeigahretd    greater in BoswelTs
Toorn (A            volumes than even in         his own.                   Hon. Eomund Burke.
    portion

    acid, 5!

Traill (D
   the reii

           on
   the Orl
Trevelyai
    minis I
   598.

                                                           II.

                                                 A JOURNAL.

                    By  Francis Anne             Butler (Fanny              Kemble).
                                    2 Vols,
                                                 post 8vo, 1 8*.

                 "

                    1Taylor, Red Lion Court, Fleet Slrwi.
             MR. MURRAY S LIST.

                              III.
                              "theThPe RSAkeItRchIE-BSo.ok."
         By  A TOUR on

             tlie Author of

             Post 8vo, 9s. 6d.

                              IV.

         ABBOTSFORD           "anTdheNSEkWetcShT-BEoAoDk.."

         By the Author of
             Post 8vo, 9*. 6d.

  MAJOR DOWNING'S LETTERS, Second English

Edition, with Three additional Letters. 1 8mo, 3s.

                                  VI.
             COLERIDGE'S TABLE TALK.
         2 Vols. Foolscap 8vo, with Portrait, &c, 15s.

                              VII.

  A RESIDENCE and TOUR in the UNITED
STATES, with particular Observations on the Condition
of the Blacks in that Country.
         By E. S. Abdy, A. M.       3 Vols, post 8vo, 30s.

                       VIII.
  MATTHEWS' DIARY of an INVALID.

Fifth Edition, in one Pocket Vol., Foolscap, 7s. 6d.

                              IX.
                              ANTIQUITIES,
RAFOTURSRYETHof'SITAALRYT.S,                       and LITE
                              Fourth Edition, one
                                                   Pocket Vol.,

7s. 6d.                       X.

  ANDERSON'S NEWEST GUIDE to the HIGH
LANDS and ISLANDS of SCOTLAND. One Pocket

Vol. of 760 Pages, with a travelling Map, Foolscap 8vo, 16s.

                                  XI.                            '
       HOPE'S ESSAY on ARCHITECTURE,

a New Edition, carefully revised, with nearly One Hundred
Plates, royal 8vo, £2, will be ready in a few Days.
TOO            MR. MURRAY S LIST.

Statistic!     XII.
   count
               EGYPT, and THEBES,
Stevelly
    the be     from Observations made during  a Residence of        more than
    teoroh     Twelve Years. With Views and   other Illustrations.     8vo, SO*
   princij
          on   By J. G. Wilkinson, Esq.
   a icall
   parti,                                 XIII.

Stone, 01      panadrEtsXNoCOf URRRUWSSAISOIYAN,,SinFtIihnNeLthYAeeaNNrsDO,1R8T3S0HWaEnodDf EE18NU33,R. ODPEEN,MthAroRuKgh,
                                       By John Barrow, Jun.
    cation
Surveyin       Post Svo, 12j. With a few characteristic Sketches, and 2 Maps.
Sykes (1
                        A New Edition will be ready in a few Days.
   ture* i
Syme (P        XIV.

   joints,     A VISIT to ICELAND in the SUMMER of 1S34.
               With Thirty-three Wood Engravings.    Post 8vo, 12*.
Syrapieat
               By John Barrow, Jun., Author of " Excursions in the North
Tempera
Tertiary                                            of Europe."
Thames,
               XV.
   inclina
    486.         THE SACRED SCRIPTURES,              illustrated from
Thomson                                              Traditions, &c. of
               the Customs, Manners, Superstitions,
    ·pecim     the East. 8vo, 18i.
Thomson
               By the Rev. Josefh Roberts.
   of the
    on lilac
Toorn (A
    portion
    acid, 6
Traill (D
    the reii

           on
    the Or
Trevelyai
    mous ]
    598.

                                                      XVI.

                          On the CONNEXION of the PHYSICAL SCIENCES.

                          A New Edition, most carefully revised, particularly with a
                           view of simplifying the Work, and rendering it intelligible to
                           unscientific Readers, with numerous Illustrative Woodcuts.

                             Foolscap 8vo, 10s. 6d.

                                                   By Mary Somerville.

               ^

-*r.

               Taylor, Red Lion Court, Fleet Street.
                 MR. MURRAY S LIST.

                 XVII.

  PRINCIPLES OF GEOLOGY; with a Glossary,

containing an Explanation of Scientific Terms, and a copious
Index.

By Charles Lyell, F.R. S., President of the Geological

                                          Society.

   Illustrated with 147 Woodcuts,  13 Plates and Maps.
4 Vols. 12mo, price only 24s.

A Fourth Edition will be ready in a few Days.

                 XVIII.

   STATE PAPERS RELATING TO IRELAND.                                .
                                                                    i
Published by the Authority of His Majesty's Government.
Vols. 2 and 3. 4to, 3/. 3s. Large Paper, 5/. 5s.

                 XIX.

The DUKE OF WELLINGTON'S DESPATCHES
during his various Campaigns.
                                   Compiled from Authentic
Documents. By Lieut.-Col. Gurwood. Vols. 1, 2, and 3.

8vo, 20s. each.

                 XX.

  VON RAUMER'S ILLUSTRATIONS of the HIS
TORY of the SIXTEENTH and SEVENTEENTH
CENTURIES. Translated from the German.

                 By Lord Francis Eoerton, M. P.
                           2 Vols. Post 8vo, 21 j.

                              XXI.
   TheACHARNENSES of ARISTOPHANES. Edited,

and adapted to the use of Schools and Colleges. By Thomas
Mitchell, A. M. 2 Vols. Post8vo, 10j. 6d.

                 XXII.

INTRODUCTION TO THE STUDY OF THE
GREEK CLASSIC POETS.                                   Young Per
                               HeDensriygneNdelsfoonr   Colekidge,
sons at School or College. By
A. M. A New and Improved Edition. Foolscap 8vo, Is. 6rf.
700                                      MR. MURRAY S LIST.

Sutuua                         DOMESTIC COOKERY.
   count
                       hm -i : ,nt ii Editiok, Price Five and Siirixci.
StereUT                            A NEW SYSTEM OF
    the be
   teoroli       DOMESTIC COOKERY,

--pril.ci]                                         FOUNDED IPOX
          on            Principles of Economy and Practical Knowledge,

    part*,                    and adapted to the Use of Private Families.
Stone, 01
                                         BY A LADY.
cation

Surveyin,
         (Ii
Sykes
   turn

Sytne(P
   joint-.

Sympiew

Tempera          " This is really one of the most practically useful books of
Tertiary
Thame's          any which we have seen on the subject. The Lady who has
                 written it has not studied how to form expensive articles for
    ii.' i. 1.1  luxurious tables, but to combine elegance with economy ; she
                 has given her directions in a plain, sensible manner, that every
    486.
Thomson          body can understand, and these are not c on lined merely to
                 cookery, but are extended to a variety of objects in use in
    ·pecim       families,                               utility  of
Thomton          increased  biyndweehdic.h"  means the   Critic.      the book  is  very much

   of the                                    -- British

    on blac      " We have heard, from unquestionable authority, that of
                 Mrs. Rundell's Domestic Cookery Book
Toorn (A         have already been sold." -- Quarterly Review-        153,000 Copies
    portior
    acid, 5

Traill (D

    the reii

           on
    the Or

Trevelyai
    moua ]
    598.

                    ·»*   The information    of the Quarterly           Review refers to  the
                 extent  of the sale nearly  three years ago ;        -- since that time  the

                 demand for it has increased, so that the total number of copiet

                 sold, at present exceeds one hundred and sixty-Jive thousand.

                    In consequence o1 the daily augmenting sale o1 the work, the
                 Publisher has been enabled to reduce the price from Seven and

                 Sixpence to Five and Sixpence.
                              MR. MURRAY S LIST.

  PEN and PENCIL SKETCHES of INDTA. Being

a Journal of a Tour in that Country. With numerous En
gravings by Landsi i u, and Woodcuts, chiefly illustrative of
the Field Sports of India, from the Author's own Sketches.
By Captain Mundv, late Aid-de-Camp to Lord Comber-
mere. A New Edition. In 2 Vols. 8vo, 30s.

  STATISTICAL ACCOUNT of UPPER CANADA,
for the Use of EMIGRANTS. By A Backwoodsman.

Third Edition. In Foolscap 8vo. Is. 6d.
5wT.raarCddFoeiinne. tgled--ntsoS9fp.:oS--rRteset.tl1lieg--.risoC.u6a--s.pitST4aer.licastvtsPse.u. lr--lci--nhga1s.02e..--OoPd7rfo.dvLsiSasoainoindln.ds--.--En--Cd8sl.i.mL3a.utem.Fbo--er r

  A YEAR in SPAIN. By a Young American. 2 Vols.

Post 8vo, 16s.

  BUBBLES FROM THE BRUNNEN OF NASSAU.

Third Edition, with Eleven Plates. Foolscap 8vo, 7s. 6d.

ROUGH NOTES taken during some rapid Journeys
        the PAMPAS and        aomf o"ngBubthbelesANfroDmESth.e   By Major
across                                                          Brunnen."
Sir F.  Bond Head, author
Third Edition. In Post 8vo, 9s. 6d.

  JOURNAL                    of a WEST-INDIA      "PTRhOe PMRoInEk,T"O&Rc..

By the late M.               G. Lewis, Author of

8vo, 10s. 6d.

CONSOLATIONS in TRAVEL; or, the LAST
DAYS of a PHILOSOPHER. By Sir Humphry Daw,
      P"reSsaidlmenotnia."of  the Royal Society. Printed
late                           New Edition. 8vo, 6s.            uniformly
with

  SALMONIA; or, DAYS of FLY FISHING. Third

Edition, with Plates and Woodcuts. Foolscap 8vo, 12s.

GLEANINGS IN NATURAL HISTORY. With
Local Recollections. By Edward Jesse, Esq., Surveyor
tohfeH"isJoMuranjeasltyo'sf  Parks and Palaces. Being a Companion to

                             a Naturalist." A New Edition. First and
Second Series. 2 Vols. Post 8vo, 10s. 6d. each.

        ·»· The Third and last Volume is in the Press.
700                                                                               J

Statutici        10 MR. MURRAY S LIST
   count
                 NEW BOOKS IN THE PRESS,
Stevelly
    the bot           PREPARING FOR PUBLICATION.
    teorolc
   princi|       THE LIFE OF OLIVER GOLDSMITH,
          on i
    a scale      Chiefly drawn up from Original Sources, and comprising
    part*, .     numerous                                    By James  Prior,     Esq.,
                 Author of  tihneter"esLtiinfeg     Pieces.   8to.
Stone, ot                                        of Burke."
    cation
                                                 II.
(ISurveying
                 MEMOIRS OF ROBERT LORD CL1VE,
Sykes
    turct il     Collected from the Family Papers at Wolcot, and other Au
                 thentic and Original Sources.
Syme (1*1
    joints,         By Major-Gen. Sir John Malcolm, G.C.B., K.L.S.,
                 F. R.S., LL. D., &c. In 3 vols. 8vo, with a Portrait.
Sympieao
                                                 III.
Tempera)
Tertiary I                                  A THIRD AND LAST SERIES OF
Thames,
                       GLEANINGS IN NATURAL HISTORY.
     inclina1
     486.        By Edward Jesse, Esq., Surveyor of His Majesty's Parks
 Thomson                       and Palaces. 1 Vol. Post 8vo, 10s. 6a.
     specim
 Thomson
     of the 1
      on blac

 Toorn (A

      portion
      acid, 5

 Traill (D

      the reii
             on

     the Orl
  Trevelyai

      in cms (
      598.

                                                      IV.

                 LITTLE ARTHUR'S HISTORY OF ENGLAND.

                 2 Vols. 18mo, with Woodcuts. By M. C                          .

                                                                                         J

                                                                                          '
              OF BOOKS IN THE PRESS.                                        11

                   INDIAN SKETCHES,
Taken during an EXPEDITION among the PAWNEE

                              TRIBES.

a  ""BTyTohuJiorshownnortThk.e  Irvino, Jun.    1 Vol. Post 8vo, uniform with
                                Prairies."
                                forms a kind  of Continuation to my " Tour
on the Prairies," the Expedition being led by the same Com
           ; and it brings the reader                                      Tribes,
missioner  we beard a great deal, but         asmawonngotthhinegP. a"wnee
of which
   " The Sketches here given present, in my opinion, some of
      mI ohsat vespmirietetdw, ithl.ivelTyh, eayndpafratamkeiliatorovioefwstheofyoInutdhifaunlnelsifse
the
that

and freshness of the Author, and of a peculiar turn for the
grotesque by which he is characterised. We have not yet had
much of the comic of the Indian character ; writers have all

represented the Indians according to a conventional and

athrteiyficaiarle.'m' --odLeel;ttetrhifsroumnhaWckansehyiendgtoyno.unIgrsvtienrg.presents them as

                                  VI.
  GEOLOGY of the COUNTIES OF SALOP, HERE
FORD, RADNOR, MONTGOMERY, BRECKNOCK,
CAERMARTHEN, MONMOUTH, WORCESTER,
and GLOUCESTER, with a large Geological Map, nume

rous Coloured Sections, and many Plates of unpublished
Organic Remains. By Roderick Impey Mukchison, F. R. S.,
Vice-President of the Geological and Royal Geographical
Societies, F.L.S. &c. &c. Royal 4to. For further details,
see the Prospectus of this Work                         to the Quarterly
                                              prefixed
Review, No. CVII.
                              VII.
           THE BIBLICAL KEEPSAKE;
mOer,ntLioanneddscianpteheIllHuosltyratSicornipsturoefst,heamrraonstgerdeminarkthaebleOrdPelarceosf

the several Books and Chapters.

   Vol. II., price 21 5. elegantly bound in Morocco, will

contain Thirty-two highly finished Views made from original
and accurate Sketches taken on the Spot ; engraved by W.
and E. Finden ; with Descriptions of the Plates, by the

Rev. Thomas Hartweli Mouse, B. D.
   The above  Work consists                   entirely of the Views
"  Landscape  Illustrations of                 the Bible," Numbers   from   the
                                                                              to
XVI. bound in One Volume.                                              IX.

                                                                                                        ^*
700

StatUtici        IS MR. MURRAY S LIST
   count
                                            VIII.
Stevelly           OUTLINES of the POLITICAL ECONOMY of
    th.- bo
                 NATIONS. By the Rev. R. Jones, Professor of History
teorolt
                 and Political Economy at the East India College, Hertford
princi|          shire. 12mo.
     on f
                                                IX.
 (call                          BUTTMAN'S LEXILOGUS;

    parts,
Stone, 01

cation

Surveying        Or, a Critical Examination of the Meaning and Etymology
           (ji
Sykes            of various Greek Words, and Passages in Homer, Hesiod,
    Hires        and other Greek Writers, tracing them from the Early Epic

Syrae (Pi        Poetry, through all the Authors in which they occur. By the

joints,          late Professor Buttman, of Berlin. Translated and edited,

Sympiew          J.with Notes and copious Indexes, by the Rev.                                R. l'r-m ak r.

Temper*          A.M., late Fellow of Wadham College, Oxford. 1 Vol. 8vo.
Tertiary
Thames,            " Buttman's Lexilogus is a most able disquisition on the

    inclina      derivation, formation, and meaning of a number of doubtful
                 words and passages in Homer. It contains, in two small unpre
    486.         tending volumes, a deeper and more critical knowledge of
Thomson
                 Greek, more extensive research, and more sound judgment,
    ·pecim
Thomson          than we ever remember to have seen in any one work before.
                 Though it is primarily a criticism on Homer, yet it is not
    of the 1
                 confined to his poems ; for every author, and every passage,
     on blac     and every analogy which the whole range of Greek literature

Toorn (A         can furnish as illustration or example, is brought to bear on
     portion
     acid, 5     the old epic language with   a                                       talent  anhdimbsyelfa."m--emQoruyartseurlry
                                             in                                       Porson
Traill (D        passed (if surpassed) only
                 Review.
     the reii                                X.

            on      A DESCRIPTION of that Part of DEVONSHIRE
     the Orl
 Trevelyai       bordering on the Tamak and the Tavy ; its Natural History,

       11IOUS l  Manners, and Customs, Superstitions, Scenery, Antiquities,
     598.        Biography of Eminent Persons, &c. A-c. In a Series o^
                 oTLefatltbe"ars,T"rat"voeDlsReobiFneorixtN."oSromu3athnVedoyyl,s,".            By Mrs. Bray,    A"utThhoer
                                                                                      Esq".  Fitz of Fitzford,"

                                                                                      Post 8vo, with Illustrations.

                                                XI.
                 A COMPLETE LATIN-ENGLISH DICTIONARY,

                    compiled from the best Sources, chiefly German, and
                    ndapted to the Use of Colleges and Schools. One Vol.
                    8vo.

                               By the Rev. J. E. Riddle, M. A.

                 by Richard Taylor, Red Lion Courl, Fl«et 9treel.
            OF BOOKS IN THE PRESS.                                                                            13

                        XII.
A NEW HISTORY OF MODERN EUROPE,

From the Termination of the Fifteenth Century.

 Translated from the German of Frederick Von Raumer.
With copious Additions and Notes, original and selected

                              from other Sources. 8vo.

                           XIII.
A HANDBOOK FOR TRAVELLERS UPON THE

                        CONTINENT:

GPBreeuirnsmsgiaanayaGn--udidNeAoutrostthrHeiaornll--aGnTedrymraoannldy--B--eTlhgBeiuamvAaur--isatrTaihanedn  Rhine --
varian Alps, and                                                                                              Southern

                                                                                                               and Ba

                  SWITZERLAND,

Containing  PicDteusrceripGtiaolnlesries,of&ct.h--e   Principal      Cities, their
Museums,                                             the Great
                                                                 High Roads --

and the most interesting and picturesque Districts, with
Directions for Travellers and Hints for Summer Tours.

Prepared from Journals and Memoranda, principally the
Result of personal Experience, and derived from Observ

ations made on the Spot.

In one compact Volume, uniform with "Starke's Directions,"
for which it is intended as a Sequel.                To be published

in Parts.

Containing                    Part I.                will be ready in a few

            Holland and Belgium,

                                       Days.

Containing                Part II.                   Germany,                                                 will

            The Rhine and Northern

                               speedily follow.

                                                                                                              i
 700           H MR. MURRAY S LIST

 Suriatici                         XIV.
    count
               SKETCHES     MoOf Ua NJTOUSRINNAEI,YantdhrtohueghexcAavRaAteBdICAi-tPtEo- f
 Stev.-lh        TR.EA, to
     tbe In-   PETRA, -- the ED0M of the Prophecies.
     teorolt
    princi|          Translated from the French of M. Lkon de Laborde.
         otl'
     a scalt              With numerous Illustrations.             In 2 Vols.

     partx, I  ·' We have ourselves examined this work, and profess our
Stone, 01      selves, however struck with the beauty and curiosity of the
               scenes which it represents, to be still more delighted with this
     cation    revival of the lost capital Idumea, and the unexpected

Surveying      and decisive, and may we add, eternal proof that is thus
               established of that one of the prophecies, which twenty years
Syke. (I
               ago was    perhaps the least credible  and intelligible   even to the
     tures il  learned."
Sum' (Pi                   -- Quarterly Review.

    joints,                                      XV.
Sympieso          The WASPS of ARISTOPHANES, edited with
               English Notes, and adapted to the Use of Schools and Uni
Tcmperat
Tertiary ;     versities. 8vo.
Thames,
                               By Thomas Mitchell, Esq., A. M.
    inclina
    486.       8vo. Forming No. II. of " Mitchell's Plays of Aristophanes."
Thomson
    tpecim                         XVI.                            FALL
Thomson        HISTORY              DECLINE and                                  RO
    of the ]              of  the  MAN EMPIRE.                           of the
    on blac
Toorn (A                                  By Edward Gibbon,
    portion
    acid, 5     Including his LIFE, written by Himself; and NOTES
TraUl (D
    the reii   By the Rev. H. H. Milman, Prebendary of St, Peter's,
                             Westminster, and Vicar of St. Margaret's.
           on
               With Historical Embellishments.          In Monthly Volumes.
   the Or
Trevelyai      8vo.

    minis ]       Tbe design of the Work is to furnish the Original, unmu-
   598.        tilated Text of Gibbon, revised throughout, particularly in
               the quotations, and to subjoin a candid and dispassionate
               EXAMINATION of his mis-statements on the subject of
               Christianity, with such additional correction and informa

               tion as has been brought to light by the inquiries or discove-
               veries of later historians, Foreign as well as British, who have
               successively treated the different periods comprehended in the
               History of Gibbon.

               I by Richard Taylor, Red Lion Court, Fleet Street.
OF BOOKS IN THE PRESS.                               15

                               XVII.
A POPULAR ACCOUNT of the MODE of LIVING

      among the GREEKS, Social, Religious, and Civil.
Translated from the German of Dr. Hknry Hask, Inspector

              of the Museum of Antiquities at Dresden.

For the Use of Schools. Foolscap 8vo.

ILLUSTRATIONS    XVIII.            of YORK-

               of the GEOLOGY
                 SHIRE.

By John Phillips, F.R.S., F.G.S.,

Professor of Geology in King's College, London.

2 Vols 4to. Vol. I., a New Edition, U. lis. (id. is

                                  nearly ready.

                       XIX.
THE HIGHLANDERS OF SCOTLAND;

Their Origin, History, and Antiquities, with a Sketch of their
Manners and Customs, and an Account of the Clans into
which they were divided, and of the State of Society which

existed among them.

                By William F. Skine, F. S. A. Scot.

                                                                'te*
700                    _J

Statistic*       16 mr. Murray's list.
   count
                                          Thit Day it published,
Stevelly
    the bei               GRAPHIC ILLUSTRATIONS
    teorola                                                  or

--princi]        THE LIFE AND TIMES OF DR. JOHNSON,
        on'               PART I.
    tcilt        With Six Plates, and descriptive Letter-press, super-royal
    part*, 1     8vo, 35. 6d- To be continued every two Months, and to

Stone, 01        contain
                 Portraits of Remarkable Persons, many of which have
    cation
Surveyini        never before been engraved ;
                     I-'a( -similes of their Autographs, and
Sykes (I         Views of the most interesting Localities connected with
                          -----
    turei il     them.
                 ·#* A small number of Copies, royal 4to proofs, 5*., *"d
Syme (R          4to India proofs, before letters, Is. Ctrl.

     joint!),            Contents or Part I.                  Contents of Part II. '
Sympieto            1. Lichiield, the Birthplace of
                                                           1. Dr. Johnson's House in Bolt
 Tcmperal        Johnson. Sketched and drawn by         Court, Fleet Street, now destroyed.
 Tertiary I      C. Stanfleld.
 Thames,                                                  2. Whole-length Portrait of Ge
                    S. Portrait of Dr. Johnson's Fa     neral Oglethorpe -- from a Sketch
     inclina     ther.                                  taken bv Sam. Ireland.
     486.
 Thomson            3. Fac-simile of the Letter of Gil    3. The Grammar School at Lich
                 bert Walmesley, introducing John       field, where Dr. Johdson was edu
     ·pecim      son and Garrick on their iirst Visit   cated--and the Academy at Edial,
 Thomson         to London.                             where he was Teacher in 1736.

     of the I       4. Edward Cave, Originator of         4. Portrait of Warren Hastings.
      on bla(    the Gentleman's Magazine.                5. Autographs of distinguished
 Toorn (A                                               Contemporaries of Johnson. ,
      portion       5. St. John's Gate, Clcrkenwell,
      acid, 5    and Autograph of Cave.
 Traill (D
      the reii     & Facsimile of Dr. Johnson's
                 Letter to Cave, 1788.
             on
      the Or
  Trevelyai
       minis ]
      598.

                                   tlchard Tuylor, Red Lion Court, Fleet Street.

,
            PHILOSOPHICAL MAGAZINE.

Prof. Necker.                    Wm. Swainson.Esq. F.R.S. F.L.S.
Richard Phillips, Esq. F. R. S.  W. H. Talbot, Esq. F.R.S.
                                 John Taylor, Esq. F.R.S. Treas.
Prof. Phillips, F.R.S.               G.S.
R. Potter, Esq.
Prof. Powell, F.R.S.             J. Thomson, Esq. F.R.S.
                                 W. C. Trevelyan, Esq.
J. Prideaux, Esq.                Edward Turner, M.D. F.R.S.
                                                        F.G.S.
Wm. Prout, M.D. F.R.S.           Thomas Weaver,   Esq.  F.L.S.
Prof. Ritchie, F.R.S.                             Esq.
Prof. Rudberg.                   J. O. Westwood,
Prof. Sedgwick, F.R.S.           The Rev. W. Whewell, F.R.S.
                                 W. Yarrell, Esq. F.L.S.
Wm. Sturgeon.
                                 Professor Young, Belfast.

            CONTENTS OF NUMBER 37.

   On the Gold-workings formerly conducted in the County of Wick-
low, Ireland. By Thomas Weaver, Esq., F.R.S. F.G.S. M.R.I.A.
Sec. ; On Olbers's Method of determining the Orbits of Comets. By

PvBereorlfgfaeinsstsgoCrIonlfElienngitceek. e--S.e--OrienOs.nthetBhIyempSJ.ourmRta.mnYacoetiuononfgo,SftPusrldooyfweinlsygsocraonondfvMePrragetihsneegrmviaanntgidcstdhiien
iLonafgnCgotumhaeegtPes.hsysspiBcoakylenTH.ibsJyt.oUrHynucsiovsfielizyMe,adnD. N.DaB.t,iyonRDse,rc.twoHritohdogfthkHeina.yvie--esw,AoKfCenealttu.acl--oidgOautne
the Geological Evidence of the Advance of the Land at the Head of
the Persian Gulf. By Charles T. Beke, Esq., F.S.A.-- On the Silu.
rian System of Rocks. By Roderick Imfey Murchison, Esq.,
F.R.S., F.L.S., Vice-President of the
phical Societies, &c. -- Proceedings of  Geological and Royal    Geogra
                                         Learned Societies : --  Geologi

cal Society ; Zoological Society ; Astronomical Society ; Royal Institu
tion of Great Britain ; Cambridge Philosophical Society, Lent Term,
1835. -- Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles: -- British Association
for the Advancement of Science, -- Meeting at Dublin in August next;
On the frequent Deficiency of the Ungueal Phalanx in the Hallux
of the Orang Outang, by E. W. B. ; On Oil of Cinnamon, &c. ;
Atomic Weight of Aluminum ; On Veins of crystallized Carbonate of
Lime in Fossil Wood, by Edward Charlesworth, Esq. ; Phenomenon
resembling the Mirage, seen in the Regent's Park ; Experiments to
ascertain the Existence of Lead in the Atmosphere of a White Lead
Manufactory, by Mr. Arthur Dunn; Decomposition of Cyanuret of
Mercury by Iron ; Sulphuret of Zinc and Iron ; Meteorological
Table, &c.

   No. 1 to No. 38, price 2s. 6d. each, to be had at the Office of the
London and Edinburgh Philosophical Magazine, Red Lion Court, Fleet-
street ; and of all Booksellers.
    PHILOSOPHICAL MAGAZINE.

A HE recent commencement of a New Series of this long-established
Work, united with the ANNALS OF PHILOSOPHY and the
EDINBURGH JOURNAL OF SCIENCE, and conducted by

           Sia DAVID BREWSTER, K.H. LL.D. F.R.SS. L. & E. &c.
          RICHARD TAYLOR, F.S.A. L.S. G.S. Astr. S. &c.
          RICHARD PHILLIPS, F.R.SS. L.& E. F.G.S. &c,

affords to such individuals and societies as are desirous of possessing a
monthly record of the progress of the sciences a convenient opportunity
of becoming subscribers. The great number of Original Communica

tions from philosophers of the first eminence, together with Records of

the most Recent Discoveries, Notices of Scientific Works, and the Pro

ceedings of Learned Societies, domestic and foreign, give a permanent
value to the volumes of this Journal, which has long been quoted as a
Standard Work of Reference by writers of all countries. The Editors,
aware that an enlarged circulation would afford them the means of
increasing the value of the Work, respectfully invite the support of those
who can estimate how much the real advancement of knowledge de
pends, not merely upon popular and elementary compilations, but upon
such works as afford a convenient vehicle for the speedy communication

of the labours, discoveries and deductions of those diligent cultivators of

the sciences, who are distinguished by the devotion of their time and
talents to the enlargement of the boundaries of knowledge.

   Among the eminent men of science whose communications           have
enriched the numbers of this Journal are the following :--

M. Agassiz.                       John Davy, M.D. F.R.S.
Prof. Airy, Pres. Astron. Soc.    Prof. Faraday, F.R.S.
Prof. Babbage, F.R.S.             W.H.Fitton, M.D. F.R.S. F.G.S.
Francis Baily, Esq. F.R.S.        Prof. Forbes, F.R.S.
P. Barlow, Esq. F.R.S.            R. W. Fox, Esq.
Sir Chas. Bell, F.R.S. F.L.S.     Davies Gilbert, Esq. F.R. S.F.L.S.
Thos. Bell, Esq. F.R.S. F.L.S.
B.                                Prof. Graham.
    Bevan, Esq.
J.  Blackwall, Esq.               J. E. Gray, Esq. F.R.S.
                                  Rev. V. Harcourt, F.R.S.
                     F.L.S.       Dr.                  F.R.S.
Sir David Brewster, F.R.S.        Sir                   Herschel,
Robt. Brown, Esq. D.C.L. F.R.S.        JH. eFn.ryW, .              F.R.S.
   V.P.L.S.                       The Rev. T. J. Hussey, D.D.
The Rev. Prof. Buckland, F.R.S.   James Ivory, Esq. F.R.S.
    F.G.S.                        The Rev. P. Keith, F.L.S.
Sir A. Carlisle, F.R.S.           The Rev. W. Kirby,F.R.S. F.L.S.
                         F.L.S.
Rev. J. Challis, M.A.             Prof. Kupffer.
The Rev. W. D. Conybeare, F.R.S.  Prof.  Lindley, F.R.S.  F.L.S.
    F.G.S.                                Lubbock, Esq.                    S.
                                  J. W.                   Treas. R.

John Curtis, Esq. F.L.S.          F.L.S.
Prof. Daniell, F.R.S.             Wm. MacLeay, Esq. F.L.S.
Prof. Daubeny, F.R.S.
T. S. Davies, Esq. F.R.S.         Prof. Moseley.
                                  R.I.Murchison,Esq.F.R.S. F.G.S.
                   TW TT

iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiih.

   32101 076796315

                            i ' " »'*'

              V*'.'

