Report of the ... Meeting of the British Association for the Advancement
of Science.

British Association for the Advancement of Science.
London : J. Murray, 1834-1917.
http://hdl.handle.net/2027/njp.32101049356353

                                          Public Domain, Google-digitized
                                              http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google

                                                          We have determined this work to be in the public domain,
                                                          meaning that it is not subject to copyright. Users are
                                                          free to copy, use, and redistribute the work in part or
                                                          in whole. It is possible that current copyright holders,
                                                          heirs or the estate of the authors of individual portions
                                                          of the work, such as illustrations or photographs, assert
                                                          copyrights over these portions. Depending on the nature
                                                          of subsequent use that is made, additional rights may
                                                          need to be obtained independently of anything we can
                                                          address. The digital images and OCR of this work were
                                                          produced by Google, Inc. (indicated by a watermark
                                                          on each page in the PageTurner). Google requests that
                                                          the images and OCR not be re-hosted, redistributed
                                                          or used commercially. The images are provided for
                                                          educational, scholarly, non-commercial purposes.
      ifilirarg xif

iprimr^tttrr Httita ratigu
REPORT

           FIFTH MEETING                                       /

                                                       OF THE

BRITISH ASSOCIATION

ADVANCEMENT OF SCIENCE;

                           HELD AT DUBLIN IN 1835.

              LONDON:

JOHN MURRAY, ALBEMARLE STREET.

                                     1836.
PRINTED BY RICHARD TAYLOR,

   RED LION COURT, FLEET STREET.
                CONTENTS.                                       TV*
                                                                    v
                         ----
                                                                viii
Objects and Rules of the Association
Officers and Council                                              xi
Treasurer's Account                                             xiii
Desiderata                                                       xli
Address of Sir William Hamilton

         REPORTS ON THE STATE OF SCIENCE.

Report on the Recent Progress and Present Condition of the Ma      1
   thematical Theories of Electricity, Magnetism, and Heat. By
   the Rev. W. Whewell, Fellow and Tutor of Trinity College,    35
                                                                61
    Cambridge

Apercu de l'Etat actuel des Sciences Mathematiqucs chez  les
           Par A. Quetelet, Directeur de l'Observatoire  de
Beiges.

Bruxelles

On the Phainomena of Terrestrial Magnetism. Being an Abstract
   of the Magnet ismus der Erde of Professor Ch. Hansteen. By
   Captain Edward Sabine, R.A., F.R.S

           RESEARCHES

UNDERTAKEN AT THE REQUEST OR SUGGESTION OF THE ASSOCIATION.

Report on the Comparative Measurement of the Aberdeen Stand     91
                                                                93
   ard Scale. By Francis Baily, Treas. Royal Society, &c
Impact upon Beams. By Eaton Hodgkinson

Observations on the Direction and Intensity of the Terrestrial
   Magnetic Force in Ireland, made by the Rev. Humphrey Lloyd,
   M.A., F.R.S., &c., Professor of Natural Philosophy in the Uni

/^versity of Dublin ; by Captain Edward Sabine, R.A., F.R.S. ,

   &c. ; and by Captain James Clarke Ross, R.N., F.R.S., &c. . 117

                                   a2
           4 80f> y*s
iv CONTENTS.                                                      Page
On the Phenomena usually referred to the Radiation of Heat.       163

   By Henry Hudson, M.D., M.R.I.A. Dublin

Third Report of Experiments on the Quantities of Rain falling at

different Elevations above the Surface of the Ground at York,

undertaken at the request of the Association by William Gray,
Jun., and Professor Phillips, F.R.S., F.G.S., Secretaries of

the Yorkshire Philosophical Society ; with Remarks on the Re
sults of the Experiments, by Professor Phillips
                                                                  171

First Report on the Hourly Observations of the Thermometer at
the Plymouth Dockyard, Lat. 50° 21' N., Long. 47° W. By
Mr. "W. S. Harris, F.R.S., &c
                                                                  181

Report of the Committee on Chemical Notation                      207

On the Infraorbital Cavities in Doers and Antelopes, called Lar
   miers by the older French Naturalists. By A. Jacob, M.D.,

   Professor of Anatomy to the Royal College of Surgeons in Ire

land                                                              208

On the Effects of Acrid Poisons. By Thomas Hodgkin, M.D. . . 211

On Acrid Poisons. By G. L. Roupkll, M.D                           235

Report on the Motions and Sounds of the Heart. By the Dublin

Sub-committee of the Medical Section                              243

Report on the Registration of Deaths.  By the Edinburgh Sub
   committee
                                                                                   251

                                    ERRATUM.

   In Mr. Whewell's Report on Heat, Electricity, and Magnetism, it is
stated that a remark of Sir John Herschel's respecting the temperature
of the celestial spaces, is contained in a memoir not yet published.
This is a mistake, the memoir referred to having been published in the
Geological Transactions, vol. v. part ii.
          OBJECTS AND RULES

                  THE ASSOCIATION.

                                      OBJECTS.

The Association contemplates          no interference  awrei,t--h tThoe  ground
                                         Its objects                      give a
occupied by other Institutions.

stronger  --imtopuplrsoemoatned    a  more systematic direction    to scientific
inquiry,                         the  intercourse of those who   cultivate Sci

ence in different  parts of the       B--rittioshobEtaminpirae,mowriethgeonneeraalnoatthteenr,
and with foreign   philosophers,
tion to the objeets of Science, and a removal of any disadvan
tages of a public kind, which impede its progress.

                           RULES.

                                             MEMBERS.

   All Persons who have attended the first Meeting shall be

entitled to become Members of the Association, upon subscrib
ing an obligation to conform to its Rules.

   The Fellows and Members of Chartered Literary and Philo
sophical Societies publishing Transactions, in the British Em
pire, shall be entitled, in like manner, to become Members of
the Association.

    The Officers and Members of the Councils, or managing
Committees, of Philosophical Institutions shall be entitled, in
like manner, to become Members of the Association.

   All Members of a Philosophical Institution recommended by

its Council or Managing Committee, shall be entitled, in like
manner, to become Members of the Association.

    Persons not belonging to such Institutions shall be elected by
the General Committee or Council, to become Members of the
Association, subject to the approval of a General Meeting.
RULES OF THE ASSOCIATION.

                                        SUBSCRIPTIONS.

   The amount of the Annual Subscription shall be One Pound,
to be paid in advance upon admission ; and the amount of the
composition in lieu thereof, Five Pounds.

   Subscriptions shall be received by the Treasurer or Secre

Iftaries.

       the annual subscription of any Member shall have been in
arrear for two years, and shall not be paid on proper notice, he
shall cease to be a member ; but it shall be in the power of the
Committee or Council to reinstate him, on payment of arrears.

                                             MEETINGS.
   The Association shall meet annually, for one week, or longer.
The place of each Meeting shall be appointed by the General
Committee at the previous Meeting; and the Arrangements

for it shall be entrusted to the Officers of the Association.

GENERAL COMMITTEE.

The General Committee shall sit during the time of the
                                                                        of the Association.
MItesehtianlgl ,coonrsilsotngoefr,alltoMetmranbsearcst   the business  have communicated
                                                        present, who

any scientific Paper to a Philosophical Society, which Paper
has been printed in its Transactions, or with its concurrence.
Members of Philosophical Institutions, being Members of
this Association, who may be sent as Deputies to any Meeting
of the Association, shall be Members of the Committee for that

Meeting, the number being limited to two from each Institution.

                                SECTIONAL COMMITTEES.

   The General Committee shall appoint, at each Meeting,
Committees, consisting severally of the Members most conver
sant with the several branches of Science, to advise together for
the advancement thereof.

   The Committees shall report what subjects of investigation
the; would particularly recommend to be prosecuted during the
ensuing year, and brought under consideration at the next
Meeting.

   The Committees shall recommend Reports on the state and
progress of particular Sciences, to be drawn up from time to
time by competent persons, for the information of the Annual
Meetings.
RULES OF THE ASSOCIATION.  VU

                     COMMITTEE OF RECOMMENDATIONS.
    The General Committee shall appoint at each Meeting a Com
mittee, which shall receive and consider the Recommendations
of the Sectional Committees, and report to the General Com
mittee the measures which they would advise to be adopted for
the advancement of science.

                                     LOCAL. COMMITTEES.
    Local Committees shall be formed by the Officers of the Asso
ciation to assist in making arrangements for the Meetings.
    Committees shall have the power of adding to their numbers
those Members of the Association whose assistance they may
desire.

                                              OFFICERS.

   A President, two Vice-Presidents, two or more Secretaries,

and a Treasurer, shall be annually appointed by the General
Committee.

                                              COUNCIL.

   In the intervals of the Meetings the affairs of the Association
shall be managed by a Council, appointed by the General Com

mittee.

                          PAPERS AND COMMUNICATIONS.
   The Author of any paper or communication shall be at liberty
to reserve his right of property therein.

                                             ACCOUNTS.

   The Accounts of the Association shall be audited annually, by
Auditors appointed by the Meeting.
OFFICERS AND COUNCIL, 1835-6.

Trustees (permanent). -- Charles Babbage, Esq. R. I. Murchi-
sonP,reEssiqd.ent.Jo--hnReTva. yBloarr,thEosloqm. ew Lloyd, D.D. Provost of Tri
nityVicCeo-lPlergees,ideDnutbsl.in--. Viscount Oxmantown, M.P. Rev. William

J.WhPVeriewcseei-dlPl.ernetsideelenctts. --eTlheect.m--osRt eNvo. blWe itlhlieamMarqDuaisnieolf  Lansdowne.
                                                                                                  Conybeare.
GS.enHearraflordSe, crEestqa.ries.Ja--meFsraCnociwsleBs aPilryic, haErsdq,.  M.D.
                                                                                                 William
                                                                                 Rev.

Vernon Harcourt.
             SefocrretBarriys.t--ol.Jo--hGn.
Assistant                                     Phillips, Esq.                 Charles Dau-
Secretaries                                    T. Clark, Esq.
beny, M.D. V. F. Hovenden, Esq.
Treasurer. -- John Taylor, Esq., 14, Chatham Place, Black-
friars.
   Treasurer to the Bristol Meeting. -- George Bengough, Esq.

Council. -- G. B. Airy, Esq., Astronomer Royal, Greenwich.
George Bentham, Esq., Westminster. Robert Brown, Esq.,
London. Rev.    W.WBilulicakmlandC,lifDt,.DE.s, qO.,xfLoorndd. onP.rofeJ.ssEo.r                   Chris
tie, Woolwich.                                                                                   Drink-
J.water, Esq., London. G. B. Greenough, Esq., Regent's Park.
Dr. Hodgkin, London.  W. Lubbock, Esq., London. Rev.
George Peacock, Cambridge. George Rennie, Esq., London.
P. M. Roget, M.D., London. William Yarrell, Esq., London.

   Secretaries to the Council. --Edward Turner, M.D., London.

Rev. James Yates, 49, Upper Bedford Place, London.

   Local Treasurers. -- Dr. Daubeny, Oxford. Charles Forbes,
Esq., Edinburgh. Jonathan Gray, Esq., York. Professor
Henslow, Cambridge. William Hutton, Esq., Newcastle-on-

J.Tyne. Dr. Orpen, Dublin. George Parsons, Esq., Birming

ham. Dr. Prichard, Bristol. Rev. John Tayler, Manches
ter. Samuel Turner, Esq., Liverpool. H. Woolcombe, Esq.,
Plymouth.
      OFFICERS OF SECTIONAL COMMITTEES.                                                                      IX

               LOCAL COUNCIL AT DUBLIN.
   James Apjohn, M.D. Francis Barker, M.D. Richard Griffith,
Esq. John Hart, M.D. Robert Hutton, Esq. Samuel Lit
ton, M.D. Mountifort Longfield, LL.D. Captain Portlock.

Rev. George S. Smith. Isaac Weld, Esq. And the Officers of
the Association residing in Dublin.

             RECEPTION COMMITTEE.

Esq.J.Richard Cane, Esq. A. Carmichael, Esq. George Carr,
      Sisson Cooper, Esq. Hon. Thomas Barnwall. Loftus
BBtColrbanoan,wrdlEne,s,sEqjWs.uqn...,JH.ERaPsomqibmi.elt,rotjnuJB,.no.WEr,rso.Eqws.Cqeu.ssa,J.cEkCRs,oq.r.MnCe.oEDlriub.. saBlolSiRrsuo,olulbiEgvesharq,tn.E,GsrEaqWsv.qe..sC,EhdMaCirn.alDegps.-
tain Hooke. Arthur Hume, Esq. Henry Kemmis, Esq. Hon.
Edward Lawless. B. C. Lloyd, Esq. Sir Charles Morgan.
Hon. Sir Francis                 W. Stokes,                                                  M.D.
   Secretary.-- R.  Stanhope.  M.D.
                    Evanson,

      OFFICERS OF SECTIONAL COMMITTEES.

      SECTION A. -- MATHEMATICS AND PHYSICS.

    President. -- Rev. Dr. Robinson.
    VSeiccere-Ptarreiesisd. e--ntsP.ro--feFssroarncisSiBraiWly,.                               Sir Thomas
                                                                  Esq.                       Hamilton.     Brisbane.
                                                                   R.                                      Professor
Wheatstone.

                                        SUB-SECTION                                      A.

    PSVreieccserie-dPtearenryst.i.d----enGPtr..o--RfeesDnsnro.ireL,MaEordssqne.elery. .

      SECTION B. CHEMISTRY AND MINERALOGY.

    President. -- Dr.  --T. DTrh.oBmasrokne.r.                    Dr. Dalton.
    Vice-Presidents.
    Secretaries. -- Dr. Apjohn. Professor Johnston.

      SECTION C GEOLOGY AND GEOGRAPHY.
    PVriecsei-dPernets.i--denRt.s.J.--GRr.iffIi.th,MuErscqh.ison, Esq. Professor Sedg

wick.                                                                                    J. J. Torrie, Esq.
   Secretaries. -- Captain Portlock.
OFFICERS OF SECTIONAL COMMITTEES.

                SECTION D. -- ZOOLOGY                           AND BOTANY.
President. -- Dr. Allman.                                        Professor Graham.
SVeiccere-tParreiessid. e--ntsJo. h--nDCru. rDtiasu, bEesnqy..
                                                                Dr. Litton.

SECTION E. ANATOMY AND MEDICINE.

   President. -- Dr. Prichard.                                                                   Surgeon           Ge
   Vice-Presidents. -- Dr. Collis. Dr. Crampton,

neral.

   Secretaries. -- Dr. Harrison. Dr. Hart.

SECTION F. -- STATISTICS.

PSVreieccserei-dtPaerreniests.id.--e--nCthPs.aror--lfeessCsoBolaorbnLbeoalnggSey,fikeeEldss..q.  Rev. E. Stanley.
                                                                                                 W. Greg, Esq.

                 CORRESPONDING MEMBERS.

   Professor Agassiz, Neufchatel. M. Arago, Secretary of the
Institute, Paris. Professor Berzelius, Stockholm. Mr. Bow-
ditch, Boston, North America. Professor de la Rive, Geneva.
Baron Alexander von Humboldt, Berlin. Professor Moll,
Utrecht. Professor CErsted, Copenhagen. Jean Plana, Astro
nomer Royal, Turin. M. Quetelet, Brussels. Professor Schu
macher, Alt ona.
                      BRITISH          ASSOCIATION                       FOR       THE          8DVANCEMENT                   OF SCIENCE.

                                       TREASURER'S              ACCOUNT            from Slst .ly      1834 to 30th .10                   1835.

                                       RECE.PTS.                                                                              PAYMENTS.

                                                                    £.        s.   d.                                                                               £. s. d.
                                                                   51         lfi                                                                                   21 10
Balance in hand from last year's Account                           511             5000 0       Expenses of Meeting at Edinburgh                                                  810 ° ° 0 0 1 °
                                                                  115          0101             Disbursements by Local Treasurers                                     78       60 ° ° 0 n 2
Compositions from 101 Members                                             7                     Purchase of £800 in per cent. Consols3                              711
                                                                                                Salaries to Assistant Secretary and Accountant to Christ-           1...1 ,, ,,
Subscriptions 181, 115 do                                                                                                                                   }"I 1
                             71                                                                     mas last
         Ditto  185,               do                                    5                      Paid the " Committee for the Discussion of Tide Obser-
Arrears         18,,
                             5 do

Dividend on 1700/., in         per cent. Consols,   6months to"l                                                                                                    6,,,,2 ,, ,,
                                                                                  0 11n0gs 10
January last                                                                                                                                                / J 1J 0
.nterest on Cash in Edinburgh Bankers to January last ...                     7 (I S                 yations"
                                                                                                Paid the Committee on British and Foreign .chthyology               11
                                                                         8                      Paid to D. Broughton, for Experiments on the Cerebral"!
                                                                                                                                                                      01
                                                                J                                   Nerves
Received on account of Sale of Reports, 1st volume                        5 18                    S.                                                                 1

Ditto                        ditto                  2nd volume           207                                                                                        "1,,1n, ..

Ditto                        ditto Lithographs                            1                     Paid Sundry Expenses on Reports, 1st volume

                                                                                                Paid Richard Taylor Printing 2nd edition of Reports,                                             ,
                                                                                                1st volume, 75 Copies
                                                                                                Paid Richard Taylor Printing              1J
                                                                                                     volume, 150 Copies       Reports, 2nd      ,,,J38 . ",.
                                                                                                                                                      *0
                                                                                                  Less charged on Account last year ... 25
                                                                                                                                                                   108 555
                                                                                                Expenses on publishing Reports,   2nd volume                        1 10
                                                                                                Expenses dn Lithographs            hands        581               2
                                                                                                June 30, Balance in the Banker's                  12                        18 10
                                                                                                                                                  12      10
                                                                                                      Ditto            Treasurer's                    816    10    51 16
                                                                                                                                                            --
                                                                                                      Ditto            Local Treasurers' ...

                                                                                                                                                                                3

                                                                                             6£251                                                            £251                 6
                                                                                  1                                                                                            1

                                       1
G. B. GREENOUGH,                            . ...                                                 [Signed,]  JOHN             TAYLOR,    Treasurer.
                                       }-*"**»ri
FRAgC.S               ,.LY,
            DESIDERATA,

                   Sjc.

                   

The following Reports on the progress and desiderata of dif-

rent branches of science have been drawn up at the request of
the Association, and printed in its Transactions.

On the progress of Astronomy during the present century, by
G. B. Airy, M.A., Astronomer Royal.
  J.On the state of our knowledge respecting Tides,   W.
                                     by
Lubbock, M.A., Vice-President of the Royal Society.
On the recent progress and present state of Meteorology, by
James D. Forbes, F.R.S., Professor of Natural Philosophy,
Edinburgh.
   On the present state of our knowledge of the Science of Ra
diant Heat, by the Rev. Baden Powell, M.A., F.R.S., Savilian
Professor of Geometry, Oxford.

   On Thermo-electricity, by the Rev. James dimming, M.A.,
F.R.S., Professor of Chemistry, Cambridge.
   On the recent progress of Optics, by Sir David Brewster,

K.C.G., LL.D., F.R.S., &c.
   On the recent progress and present state of Mineralogy, by
the Rev. William Whewell, M.A., F.R.S.
   On the progress, actual state, and ulterior prospects of Geology,
by the Rev. William Conybeare, M.A., F.R.S., V.P.G.S., &c.
   On the recent progress and present state of Chemical Science,

by James F. W. Johnston, A.M., Professor of Chemistry, Dur

ham.
  J.On the application of Philological and Physical researches to

the History of the Human Species, by C. Prichard, M.D.,
F.R.S., &c.

   On the advances which have recently been made in certain
branches of Analysis, by the Rev. G. Peacock, M.A., F.R.S. , &c.
   On the present state of the Analytical Theory of Hydrostatics
and Hydrodynamics, by the Rev. John Challis, M. A., F.R.S., &c.
On the state of our knowledge of Hydraulics, considered as a
branch of Engineering, by George Rennie, F.R.S., &c.
                                                      (Parts
I. and II.)
On the state of our knowledge respecting the Magnetism of
the Earth, by S. H, Christie, M.A., F.R.S., Professor of Mathe
matics, Woolwich.
Xiv FIFTH REPORT -- 1835.
   On the state of our knowledge of the Strength of Materials,

by Peter Barlow, F.R.S.
   On the state of our knowledge respecting Mineral Veins, by

John Taylor, F.R.S., Treasurer G.S., &c.
   On the state of the Physiology of the Nervous System, by

William Charles" Henry, M.D.
   On the recent progress of Physiological Botany, by John Lind-

ley, F.R.S. , Professor of Botany in the University of London.
   On the Geology of North America, by H. D. Rogers, F.G.S.
   On the philosophy of Contagion, by Wm. Henry, M.D., F.R.S.
   On the state of Physiological knowledge, by the Rev. William

Clark, M.D., F.G.S., Professor of Anatomy, Cambridge.

   On the state and progress of Zoology, by the Rev. Leonard

Jenyns, M.A., F.L.S., &c.

   On the theories of Capillary Attraction, and of the Propagation
of Sound as affected by the development of Heat, by the Rev.
John Challis, M.A., F.R.S., &c.

   On the state of the science of Physical Optics, by the Rev.

H. Lloyd, M.A., Professor of Natural Philosophy, Dublin.

   On the state of our knowledge respecting the application of
Mathematical and Dynamical principles to Magnetism, Electri

city, Heat, &c, by the Rev. William Whewell, M.A., F.R.S.

   On Hansteen's researches in Magnetism, by Captain Sabine,
F.R.S.

   On the state of Mathematical and Physical Science in Bel
gium, by M. Quetelet, Director of the Observatory, Brussels.

   The following Reports and Continuations of Reports have been
undertaken to be drawn up at the request of the Association :

1. On the progress of Electro-chemistry and Electro-mag
netism, so far as regards the Experimental part of the subject,
by P. M. Roget, M.D., Sec. R.S.
2. On the Connexion of Electricity and Magnetism, by S. H.
Christie, F.R.S., &c.
   3. On the state of knowledge on the Phenomena of Sound,
by the Rev. Robert Willis, M.A., F.R.S.
4. On the state of our knowledge respecting the relative level
of Land and Sea, and the waste and extension of the land on
the east coast of England, by R. Stevenson, Engineer to the
Northern Lighthouses, Edinburgh.
   5. On the Zoology of North America,  by  J.  Richardson,  M.D.,
F.R.S.
        SOirnWth. eJ.BoHtaonokyeor,f  North America, by Jacob Greene, M.D.,
    6.                                M.D., Professor of Botany, Glasgow.
and
                                    DESIDERATA, ETC.                         XV

  J.7. On the Geographical

larly the order Coleoptera,
J. 8.       On the influence        distribution of Insects, and particu
     S.     Henslow, M.A.,          by Wilson, F.R.S.E.
       S>.  On circumstances        of Climate upon Vegetation, by the Rev.
                                    F.L.S., Professor of Botany, Cambridge.

                                     in Vegetation influencing the Medicinal
virtues of Plants, by R. Christison, M.D., &c.
    10.     On  the Vegetation of Ireland and Scotland, by
            On  Mineral Waters, by Professor Daubeny.              Mr.  Mackay.
    11.     On  Salts, by Professor Graham.

    12.

    13. On      the progress        of Medical  Science  in  Germany,   by   Dr.
Graves.

    14. On the Differential and Integral Calculus, by the Rev. G.
Peacock, M.A., F.R.S.
J. 15. On the Theories of Capillary
                                                Attraction,  &c.,  bv   the  Rev.
    Challis, M.A., F.R.S.
    1 6. On the
of  Terrestrial  present state of our knowledge of the Phenomena
                 Magnetism, by Captain Sabine, F.R.S.
    17. On the Geology of North America,                         H. D. Rogers,
F.G.S., Professor of Geology, Philadelphia.                  by

                                    ASTRONOMY.

                 Resolutions of the Committee.

    1. The Committee for Mathematical and Physical Science
having stated that it would tend much to the advancement of

astronomy, and the art of navigation, if the observations of the
sun,  mreodounc, eadn, d--planets,  made by Bradley,
were                                                  Maskelyne,   and Pond,

    It was resolved by the General Committee, that a represen
tation to this effect from the British Association be submitted
to Government, in the hope that public provision might be made
for the accomplishment of this great national object, and that a
deputation, consisting of Professor Airy, Mr. Baily, Mr. D. Gil
bert, and Sir John Herschel, be appointed to confer with the
Lords of the Treasury on the subject·.
    2. That application be made to the French Government on
the part of the Association, for the purpose of obtaining a re
duction of the astronomical observations made at the Ecole
Militaire, and published in the Histoire Celeste and in the vo
lumes of the Acade'mie des Sciences for 1789, 1790; and that,

   · The application was immediately complied with by the Government, and
an advance of 500/. made by the Treasury ; the reduction of the observations
from the year 1750 to the present day is m progress.
Xvi FIFTH REPORT 1836.

provided the French Government agree to this proposition, the
sum of 500/. be placed at the disposal of a Committee, to be
hereafter nominated by the Council, for the purpose of procuring
the duplicate reduction which is necessary to ensure accuracy *.

   3. That the difference of meridians between the Observatories

of Greenwich, Cambridge, Oxford, Edinburgh, Dublin, and
Armagh, should be determined by means of chronometers, or
by signals, or by both methods.

   4. That it is desirable that the constant of lunar notation
should be deduced from observations made with the mural circle
at Greenwich, and that the sum of 100/. be appropriated to this
purpose, under the direction of Sir T. Brisbane, Rev. Dr. Robin
son, and Mr. Baily.

   5. That it is desirable that the standard scale made some
years ago by Mr. Troughton for the town of Aberdeen should
be compared with the standard scale recently made for the
Royal Astronomical Society, and that Mr. Baily be requested

to make the requisite comparisons f.

        Desiderata noticed in Mr. Airy's Report, p. 187.

   1 . Directions for placing a thermometer so as to indicate cor

rectly the Temperature of the Air at the place of observation,
for Refraction-corrections, the external and internal tempera

tures   being supposed as nearly as possible  equal.      --
    2.  Experimental Data for the Theory of   Refraction

        What is the law of the decrease of temperature, or of
           density, in ascending ?
        How does this vary at different times ?
        Can any means be contrived for indicating practically at
        different times the modulus of variation ?

        Does the refractive power of air depend simply on its
           density, without regard to its temperature ?

        Is it well established that the effects of moisture are

        almost insensible ?

        Can any rule be given for estimating the effect of the
        difference of refraction in different azimuths, accord

        ing to the form of the ground ?
        When the atmospheric dispersion is considerable, what
        part of the spectrum is it best that Astronomers should

            agree to observe ?

3. An investigation of the coefficient of Nutation from the
Greenwich circle-observations.

· An application has been mode through the Bureau des Longitudes,

f These comparisons have been made; sec p. 91.
DESIDERATA, ETC.  XVII

    4. The Reduction of Bradley's and Maskelyne's Observations
of the Sun and Planets, on a uniform plan.

   5. Remeasurement* of the elongation of Jupiter's Satellites,
to correct the estimate of the mass of Jupiter.

    6. Separate investigations, from observations, of the diminu
tion of the aphelion distance and perihelion distance of Encke's
Comet, for the purpose of testing the truth of Encke's assumed
law of density of the resisting medium.

    7. Calculations of the perturbations of Biela's Comet for the
interval between 1772 and 1806, and of those of the node and
inclination from 1806 to 1826, for the purpose of ascertaining
the identity of the comet of 1772, and examining whether this
comet gives any indication of a resisting medium.

   8. Verification of Burckhardt's Formulae in the Mem. de l'Inst.
for 1808, and extension of them to terms depending on the in
clination.

    9. Theory of the perturbations of Pallas, and of Encke's Comet

                                   TIDES.

                       Resolutions of the Committee.
   1. That a sum not exceeding 250Z. be placed at the disposal
of Mr. Lubbock for the discussion of observations of the Tides.
   2. That the Association should endeavour to procure the
general establishment of systematic Tide Observations along

fthe coasts of Great Britain and Ireland, and that the standing

Committee on Tides be requested to select such places as may
appear to them most important for this purpose ; that the di
rection, and if possible the intensity, of the wind should be ob
served, as well as its critical changes after having set for some
time in a particular direction ; and that the altitude of the cur
rents of air should also be, as far as possible, remarked.

                           METEOROLOGY.

                     Resolutions of the Committee.

   1. That a series of observations of the Thermometer during"
every hour of the day and night, be instituted at some military
or naval station in the South of England.

   * Prof. Airy himself has since given a determination of the mass of Jupiter,
   t Directions for observiug the Tides, extracted from Mr. Lubbock's Report,
and Mr. Whewell's Memoranda, are inserted p. xxxiii.

                                                            b
xviii              FIPTH REPORT -- 1835.

    1 a. That the sura of 50/. be applied to meet the expenses of
the observations which, in pursuance of this recommendation,
have been carried on for three years and a half by the Wardens
and inferior officers in Plymouth Dockyard, under the directions
of Mr. W. S. Harris·.

    2. That a similar hourly register be recommended to be esta
blished under the superintendence of the Committee of the Asso
ciation in India.

    3. That the Committee in India be requested to institute such
observations as may throw light on the horary oscillations of

the Barometer near the equator.

   4. That Mr. Phillips, and Mr. William Gray, jun., be requested
to undertake a series of observations on the comparative quan
tities of rain falling on the top of the great tower of York Minster,
and on the ground near its base ; and that similar observations

be instituted at other places t.
    5. That persons travelling on mountains, or ascending in bal
loons, should observe the state of the Thermometer, and of the

dew-point Hygrometer, below, in, and above, the clouds, and de
termine how the different kinds of clouds differ in these respects.
    6. That the decrease of Temperature at increasing heights in

the atmosphere, should be investigated by continued observations
            hours, and known heights. The hours     of 9£
at  stated  as giving nearly the mean temperature  of the  a.m.,  and
     p.m.,                                                 year,   are
8j

suggested for the purpose.
    7. That the temperature of Springs should be observed at
different heights above the mean level of the sea, and at different
depths below the surface of the earth, and compared with the
mean temperature of the air and the ground % ; and that notice
be given that any persons who may be able to obtain the tem
perature of the air, water, and rock in mines and borings of
known depth, or the indications of thermometers sunk to differ-

    · For the report of these observations, nnd those made under the direction
of the late Mr. Harvey, see Reports, vol. iv. pp. 171 and 181.

   t The observations at York were made at three adjacent stations of known

height, with gauges made on the same mould, and measured by one graduated

glass vessel ; they were continued from the 1st of February, 1832, to the 1st of
February, 1835. From the results it has been inferred by Professor Phillips
that the diminution in the quantity of rain at the higher stations has a certam
constant dependence on the height of the station, and on the condition of the
air as to temperature and moisture in the different periods of the year. For
the further elucidation of this subject, it is desirable that experiments upon the
same plan should be tried in other situations, and especially where the climate
is of a different character from that of York ; in the humid atmosphere of Corn
wall, for example, and in the drier air of the midland counties.

   J The height of the springs may be determined with sufficient accuracy by a

common portable barometer.
                           DESIDERATA, ETC.                                        XlX

ent depths, in different kinds of soil and in different parts of
the earth, are requested to make known their names and the
places where they have this opportunity, to the Secretary of the
Meteorological Committee*.
7 a. That the Meteorological Committee be requested to give
instructions, and to make arrangements on the subjects of the
Experiments recommended in the above resolution, and that
100/. be placed at their disposal.
   8. That the Committee                 further requested to draw
account of the best form             be  Meteorological instruments                u;p--aton

                                     of

prepare standard instruments, both as a means of comparison
and of construction of similar instruments, for those Members

of the Association who may           wish     to purchase Instruments con
structed by these standards                   draw up Forms, Register Ta
                                     ; -- to

bles  and Abstracts, with       dairnedctiorengsisteforirngthe; --baenstd  times,  places,
and   methods of observing                                                 that a  further

sum of 100/. be placed at their disposal, for the above purpose
and others connected with the advancement of Meteorology.
That series of comparative experiments should be made on
the temperature of the dew-point, and the indications of the
wet-bulb Hygrometer, and that the theory of this instrument
should be further investigated f.
9. That instructions for observing Auroral Phaenomena and
Falling Stars be drawn up, with a view to the procurement of
corresponding observations in every part of the kingdom %.

       Desiderata noticed in Prof. Forbes' s Report.

Verification of Mr. Dalton's theory of the constitution of the
atmosphere, by direct experiment. (Reports, vol. i. p. 206. and
Phil. Trans. 1826.)
Experiments in various latitudes upon the temperature of the
                                              opfosthiteiormn oomf ethteers"  with long
earth  at moderate depths, by means                                           invariable
tubes  ; with a view to determine the

stratum," where external causes cease to produce any effect.

{Reports, vol. i. p. 221.)
   Experiments on the solar and terrestrial radiation. (Reports,
vol. i. p. 222.)

   · The members of the Committee are Dr. Apjohn, Prof. Forbes, Mr. W. S.

Harris, Mr. J. Hudson, Professor Phillips, Professor Powell, Colonel Sykes,
Mr. John Taylor (Secretary). The Committee has had instruments constructed
suitable for experiments on temperature in mines, &c., and some of them are
now in use at selected points.
   + For an investigation    of the  theory of this                        see Dr. Apjohn 's
paper, and Dr. Hudson's    remarks   in Phil. Mug.,  instrument,
                                                     1835-6.
J An abstract of the directions which have been drawn up by the Committee
is given page xxxv.
                                         b2
XX FIFTH REPORT 1835.

   Observations on the horary oscillations of the barometer at
considerable heights above the sea. This more particularly ap
plies to places near the equator *.

   Additional observations to determine what is the influence
of the moon on the height of the barometer. (Reports, vol. i.

p. 234. See also Arago, Annuaire for 1833.)

   The application of the hygrometric correction to the baro
metric formula for heights. (Reports, vol. i. p. 254.)

    Observations on the phjenomena of wind at two stations at
considerably different elevations. (Reports, vol. i. p. 249.) The
direction of the wind should be noted in degrees, beginning from
the south and proceeding by the west.

    Magnetical observations, regularly conducted, especially with
a view to auroral phaenomena.

                              MAGNETISM.
                     Resolutions of the Committee.

    1. That a series of observations upon the intensity of Ter
restrial Magnetism be executed in various parts of the kingdom,
similar to those which have been carried on in Scotland by Mr.

Dunlop f-

   2. That observations should be made in various places with
the Dipping-needle, in order to reduce the horizontal to the true
magnetic intensity.

   3. That it be represented to the Government of this country
that it would be of great service to Science if Magnetical and
Meteorological Observatories were established in several parts
of the earth, furnished with proper Instruments, well conducted
on uniform principles, and if provision were made for careful
and continued observations at those places ; that in Great Bri
tain and its colonies there are points favourable for such obser
vations ; and that it is more desirable that the British nation
should take a part in carrying them on, since a system of simi
lar observations has begun to be established in France and its

dependencies.

    · Those who may possess such observations, continued for one or more weeks,
with observations of the temperatures of the mercury and of the air, and the
probable corresponding temperatures of the air at the level of the sea, are requested
to transmit them to Professor Forbes, Edinburgh. The local position of the
point of observation should also be noticed.

   T See Dr. Traill's experiments, Reports of the Association, vol. i. p. 557 :
and those of Professor Lloyd, vol. iv. p. 117.
DESIDERATA, ETC.  XXI

   That Mr. Baily, Mr. Davies Gilbert, Mr. Lubbock, and the
Rev. G. Peacock, be a Committee to make the required represen
tation to the Government, and to solicit the cooperation of the
French Institute.

   4. That the East India Company be requested to further the
same objects, especially at their establishment at Madras.

   5. That M. Arago be respectfully requested to publish, and
to have reduced, his valuable and extensrve collection of Mag-
netical Observations made at the Observatory at Paris.

    6. That a representation be made to Government of the im
portance of sending an expedition into the Antarctic regions, for
the purpose of making observations and discoveries in various

branches of Science, as Geography, Hydrography, Natural Hi

story, and especially Magnetism, with a view to determine pre
cisely the place of the Southern Magnetic Pole or Poles, and
the direction and inclination of the magnetic force in those re

gions.
    7. That a further examination of the Electro-magnetic con

dition of mineral veins be recommended.

         Desiderata noticed in Professor Christie's Report.

  1. A regular series of observations conducted in this country

on the diurnal variation of the needle.
   2. To ascertain how far the method of 'torsion' is applicable

to determine the diurnal variation of the horizontal magnetic
force. (Reports, vol.ii. p. 119.)

   3. To ascertain experimentally the direction of electrical cur
rents occasioned in a large sphere of copper filled with bismuth,
heated at the equator, and cooled at the poles, with a view to the
theory of the origin of the earth's magnetic polarity. (Reports,
vol. ii. p. 132.)

                           RADIANT HEAT.

               Desiderata reported by Professor Powell.

  J.1. The accurate verification of Sir Leslie's observation that

the focus for simple heat, in concave reflectors, is nearer to the
reflector than that for light. (Leslie on Heat, p. 14.)

   2. The proportion of heat reflected at different incidences.
   3. Whether radiation takes place in an absolute vacuum.
   4. Whether heat is radiated from hot bodies in liquid media,
and whether it is reflected, &c., and has the same relations to
surfaces as in air.
isxxii FIFTH REPORT 1835.
               (if
   5 . Accurate determinations of the conducting powers of differ
ent solids, liquids, and gases ; distinguishing from the effects ofof,
radiation any) in or through them; and examining the modi
1fication (if any) which the ratios of the conducting powers un
dergo from difference of thickness, especially when the thickness
                                                                             a
    extremely small·.                                                                  a

Desiderata mentioned in Mr. Whewell's Report on the Mathea
     matical Theories Electricity Magnetism, and Heat.a
     . A comparison of good recent measures of the statical forces
   a
in electrical experiments (those of Mr. Harris and any others)
with the Coulombian theory.a

   2. A determination of the degree of exactness attained and
attainable by means of Mr. Barlow's correcting-plate.

    3. Measures of the rate of increase of the temperature of the
earth's mass in descending (both in given places and on the
average), to compare with similar observations at future pe
riod.

   4. A comparison of the observed law of temperatures, as de

pending on the latitude, with Fourier's formulae.
    5. Treatises in which the results of the theories here spoken

of (Coulomb and Poisson's theories of electricity and magnet
ism, and Fourier's theory of heat,) shall be presented in man
ner sufficiently elementary to be accessible to mathematical
readers of common attainments, as, for instance, the readers of
Newton.

                                   OPTICS.
                        Resolutions of the Committee.

    1. That sum not exceeding 80/. be appropriated to the con
struction of Telescopic Lens, or Lenses, out of rock salt, under
the direction of Sir David Brewster.

    2. That sum not exceeding 15/. be placed at the disposal of
Professor Powell, for carrying on Experiments on the refractive
indices of different media on the principle of Fraunhofer, as
recommended in the reports of the Association.

    3. That 30/. be placed at the disposal of Prof. Wheatstone,
for procuring Theodolite and Prism to prosecute his researches
on the prismatic examination of the Electro-Magnetic spark.

     · See for observations on liadiant Heat Dr. Hudson's paper in the Fourth
 volume of the Astociation's Report*, 163.
                           p.
DESIDERATA, ETC.  XX1U

      Desiderata noticed in Sir David Brewster's Report.

    The determination of various constants -- namely,
    1. The refractive indices of the two pencils in all crystallized
bodies, measured in reference to definite points of the spectrum.
    2. The angles at which light is polarized by reflection from
crystallized and uncrystallized surfaces.
   3. The inclination of the resultant axes of crystals having
double refraction, for different rays of the spectrum.
   4. The dimensions of the ellipse which regulates the polariza
tion of metals and their alloys.
   5. The circularly polarizing forces of fluids and solutions.
   6. The refractive and dispersive powers of ordinary solid and
fluid bodies, measured according to the method of Fraunhofer.
    7. Experimental determination of the effects of the absorption
of light by gases upon the light of the fixed stars, (vol. i. p. 322.)

          Desiderata noticed in Professor Lloyd's Report.

   1 . Measurement of the refractive indices corresponding to the
seven principal fixed lines of the spectrum in various singly re
fracting substances, according to the method of Fraunhofer.

   2. Similar determination of the principal refractive indices of
crystals, in continuation of the researches of M. Rudberg.

   3. Experimental examination of Fresnel's theory of double
refraction, in biaxal crystals.

   4. Comparison of Fresnel's formulae for the intensity of re
flected and refracted light, with observation.

   5. Theory of reflexion at the surfaces of crystallized media
and metals, according to the principles of the wave theory.

   6. Explanation of the peculiar laws of double refraction and
polarization in rock crystal, according to the same theory.

   7. Physical account of the phaenomenon of circular polariza
tion in liquids.

   8. Physical theory of absorption.

                            CHEMISTRY.

                       Resolutions of the Committee.
   1. That Dr. Dalton and Dr. Prout be requested to institute
experiments on the specific gravities of Oxygen, Hydrogen, and
Carbonic Acid, and that a sum not exceeding 50/. be appropri
ated to defray the expense of any apparatus which may be re

quired.
XxiV  FIFTH REPORT -- 1835.

   2. That British chemists be invited to make experiments for
removing the doubts respecting the proportions of Oxygen,
Azote, &c., in the Atmosphere ; for determining the proportions
of Azote and Oxygen in Nitrous Gas and Nitrous Oxide ; and
for more accurately investigating the specific gravity of the com
pound gases in general.

   3. That the sum of 25/. be placed at the disposal of the Rev.
W. V. Harcourt for the further prosecution of experiments on
the effects of long-continued heat upon rocks, minerals, and

fother substances·.

   4. That Dr. Turner be requested to extend his researches
into the Atomic Weights of the elementary bodies, and to re
port on the progress recently made in this branch of chemical

science.
   5 . That Professor Johnston be requested to undertake a se

ries of experiments into the comparative analysis of Iron in the
different stages of its manufacture.

    6. That Professor Johnston be requested to extend and re
vise his table of Chemical Constants, and that the sum of 20/. be
placed at his disposal for that purpose.

    7. That an examination be made into the nature and quantity
of the gases given off from Thermal Waters, whether there be any
variation in these respects according to season of the year, hours
of the day, or condition of the atmosphere ; and whether there
be any changes of temperature in the same waters.

    8. That the Gaseous Products which are discharged from the
chimneys of smelting and other furnaces and fireplaces, be ex
amined, at various periods of the operations carried on in them,
with a view of ascertaining the compounds which are formed

when the processes are most successfully conducted, and also
of detecting the existence of compounds which may perhaps be
new or valuable.

    9. That a Committee be appointed to report their opinion as
to the adoption by British chemists of an uniform system of

Chemical Symbols J.
    10. That an extension of the researches commenced by Sir

David Brewster into the optical properties of Minerals be re
commended to the attention of chemists.

    11. That Mr. Graham be requested to submit to further in
vestigation the amount of security to be derived from the Safety-
lamp, and the means of improving it.

   · For a report of experiments instituted by Mr. Harcourt, in Yorkshire,  at
the Low Moor Iron Works, and at the Elsecar Furnace, see vol. iii.

   t For a notice of the researches of Dr. Turner, see vol. ii. p. 399.

    X For this report, see vol. iv. p. 207.
        DBS I DK RAT A, ETC.                                                           XXV

        MINERALOGY.

        Resolution of the Committee.

1. That Prof. Miller be requested to determine the form and
optical characters of those Crystallized Bodies which have not
been previously examined, and that chemists be invited to send
him specimens ofperfect artificial crystals.
   2. That Dr. Turner, Prof." Miller, Mr. Brooke, and the Rev.

W. Whewell, be requested to cooperate in prosecuting and pro
moting the following inquiries, with a view to examine the the
ory of
forms   aIsnodmcohrepmhiicsaml ,coanndstitthuetiocnononef xMioinnerbaelstw:e--en  the  crystalline

        I. To determine whether the angles of varieties of the
        same species (in the usual acceptation of identity of
        species) are identically the same, under various cir
        cumstances of colour, appearance, and locality ; and if
        II.not, what are the differences ?

           rieTtoiesd,e--tetrhmeinsepecthime ecnhse, mmicianlercaolongsticitaultliyonandocfhesumcihcalvlay
        III.examined, being in all cases the same.

               To determine what quantity of extraneous sub
        stances may be mixed with a crystalline salt, without
        altering its form.
        IV. To determine the angles of the various
                                                                                       species  --or
           varieties of isomorphous or plesiomorphous                                  groups,
        and their respective chemical composition.

           Desiderata noticed in Mr. Wheivell's Report.

   1. To determine the optical differences on which depend the
distinctions of the different kinds of lustre, metallic, adaman
tine, vitreous, resinous, pearly.

   2. To determine whether the oblique rhombic prism consti
tutes a real system of crystalline forms, or is a hemihedral form
of the right prism.

   3. To determine the limits of magnitude and simplicity in
crystallometrical ratios.

   4. To determine whether chemical groups are strictly iso
morphous or only plesiomorphous.

   5. To determine whether the angles of plesiomorphous cry

stals are separated by definite or by indefinite steps.

   6. To determine what are the differences of chemical compo
sition corresponding to differences of optical structure in re

sembling minerals, as apophyllite, tcsselite, leucocyclite.
XXVI                FIFTH REPORT 1835.

                                        GEOLOGY.

        Resolutions of the Committee.

1. That it be represented to the Government that the ad
vancement of various brauches of science is greatly retarded by
the want of an accurate map of the whole of the British Islands,
and that the expediting the completion of the still unfinished or
unpublished portions of the Ordnance Survey is much to be de

sired.

2. That measurements should be made, and the necessary
data procured, to determine the question of the permanence or
change of the relative level of Sea and Land on the coasts of
Great Britain and Ireland ; and that for this purpose, a sum not
exceeding 100J. be placed at the disposal of a Sub-committee,
consisting of Mr. Greenough, Mr. Lubbock, Mr. G. Rennie,
Prof. Sedgwick, Mr. Stevenson, and the Rev. W. Whewell : --
the measurements to be so executed, as to furnish the means of

reference in future times, not only as to the relative levels of
the land and sea, but also as to waste or extension of the land.

3. That Prof. Phillips be requested to draw up, with such co
operation as he may procure, a Systematic Catalogue of all the
organized Fossils of Great Britain and Ireland, hitherto described,
with such new species as he may have an opportunity of accu

rately examining*.
4. That Mr. John Taylor be requested to collect detailed sec
tions of the Carboniferous series of Flintshire, with a view to a
comparison with the same series in other parts of England ; --
with a view also of ascertaining the circumstances under which
the Mountain Limestone is developed, after its suppression in
certain coal-fields in the central parts of England.
5. That the attention of geologists be invited to those coal
districts in the midland counties of England, where, the Car
boniferous Limestone and Old Red Sandstone being deficient,
itthioencoarol cmksea;s--urewsitrhesta  immediately on the  Grauwacke and Trans
                                          view to discover  whether any circum

stances connected with the physical structure of that part of the
island can be stated, explanatory of the local absence of the two

great formations above mentioned.
6. That the direction, intersection, inclination, and breadth

of the non-metalliferous Fissures which cross the planes of the
strata, and in some instances divide many contiguous strata,

   * This catalogue is commenced, several monographs are composed. Com
munications, lists of organic remains, notices of localities, and specimens of new
or undescribed species, may be addressed to Professor Phillips, Museum, York.
DESIDERATA; ETC.  XXVU

should be observed, in relation to the same circumstances in
the dykes and mineral veins of the vicinity ; with a view to
ascertain whether any and what dependence there may be be
tween these phenomena*.

   7. That the quantity of Mud and Silt contained in the water
of the principal rivers of Great Britain should be ascertained,
distinguishing, as far as may be possible, the comparative quan
tity of sediment from the water at different depths, in different
parts of the current, and at different distances from the mouth
of the river ; distinguishing also any differences in the quality
of the sediment, and estimating it at different periods of the

J.year ; and that the sum of 20/. be placed at the disposal of the

Rev. Yates and Mr. G. Rennie, for the purpose of these ex

periments.
    8. That with a view to the improvement of our knowledge of

the Fossil Ichthyology of the British Islands, a sum not ex
ceeding 105/. be paid to Dr. Buckland, Prof. Sedgwick, and Mr.
Murchison, to be applied for the purpose of assisting M. Agassiz
in carrying on his Ichthyological work.

    8 a. That a further sum of 105/. be applied to the same pur

 pose.
    9. That a Catalogue be formed of all known Basaltic Dykes

 in the United Kingdom, with an account of the direction of
 each in regard to the meridian, the distance of which it has been
 traced, and the rocks which it passes through.

    10. That a list be collected of all places in which Shells of
 existing species have been found on dry land, with the heights
 of such places above the mean tide levels, and their distance
 from the coast, specifying the names of the several shells, and
 the area over which they extend.

     10 a. That evidence be collected as to the direction and pro
 bable sources from which drifted blocks and pebbles referrible
 to rocks not existing in the neighbourhood, where they now
 occur as insulated blocks or in beds of superficial gravel, may
 have been derived. 10 b. That evidence be collected as to the
 form and direction of hills or ridges of superficial gravel, and
 the sources whence the materials of such gravel-hills may have
 been transported to their present place.

     10 c. That observations be made on the direction and depth
 of grooves and furrows, such as are often found on the faces of
 hard rocks and beneath superficial deposits of drifted clay and
 gravel not referrible to the action of any existing currents.

   · Professor Phillips has stated {see Reports, vol. iii. p. 654,) the results of his
examination on this subject in certain parts of the North of England, and re
quests to be favoured with communications relating thereto.
XXVlli  FlITH REPORT -- 1835.

          Desiderata noticed in Mr. Conybeare's Report.
   1. An accurate examination of the conclusions deducible from

the known density of the earth, as to the solid structure and
composition of the interior.

    2. The attention of residents in our remote foreign depen
dencies to the two great questions of comparative Geology and
Paleontology. 1. Is there or is there not such a general uni
formity of type in the series of rock-formations in distant coun
tries, that we must conceive them to have resulted from general
causes of almost universal prevalence at the same geological
aera ? 2. Are the organic remains of the same geological period
specifically similar in very remote districts, and more especially
under climates actually different ; or are they grouped together
within narrower boundaries and under restrictions as to geo
graphical habitats, analogous to those which prevail in the
actual system of things ?

   3. An examination of the geological structure of the countries
constituting the great basin of the Indus ; where, if in any part
of India, it is supposed a complete series of secondary strata

may be expected.

   4. To determine, by induction, the forces which have pro
duced the elevation and general configuration of the land, and
to investigate the dynamical laws of these forces*.

Desideratum noticed in Mr. Taylor's Report on Mineral Veins.
   A correct account of the affinity that the contents of a vein

bear to certain of the rocks in which the fissure may be situated.

                      NATURAL HISTORY.

                       Resolutions of the Committee.
    1. That a Committee be appointed for devising the means of
forming and publishing a full and arranged Catalogue of works
on Natural History.
   2. That a Committee be appointed to obtain an exact Cata
logue of the Animals and Plants inhabiting Ireland.
   3. That Mr. Ball be requested to investigate the mode by

   * Reports, vol. i. p. 408. See Mr. Hopkins's Essay on Pins. Geol. in the
Transactions of the Cambridge Philosophical Society.
                     DESIDERATA, ETC.                                        xxix

which Echinus lividus excavates the rocks on which it is found,
and to report the results to the next Meeting.

    4. That the following subjects of inquiry be recommended to
the consideration of zoologists :

       a. The use of horns in the class Mammalia ; the reason of
               their presence in the females of some and their absence
               in those of other species ; the connexion between their
               development and sexual periods ; the reason of their
               being deciduous in some tribes and persistent in others.

       b. The use of the lachrymal sinus in certain families of the
               Ruminantia·.

       c. The conditions which regulate the geographical distribu
               tion of Mammalia.

        d. The changes of colour of hair, feathers, and other ex
               ternal parts of animals ; how these changes are effected
               in parts usually considered by anatomists as extra-
                 vascular.

       e. The nature and use of the secretions of certain glands
               immediately under the skin, above the eyes, and over
               the nostrils, in certain species of the Grallatores and
               Natatores ; the nature and use of the secretion of the

                uropygial gland.

    f. How long and in what manner can the impregnated ova

               of Fishes be preserved, for transportation, without
                preventing vivification when the spawn is returned to
                water.
       g. Further observations on the supposed metamorphosis of
               Decapod Crustacea, with reference to the views of
             Thompson and Rathke t.
       h. The situation of the sexual organs in male Spiders, and

           on their supposed connexion with the palpi J.

       i. The use of the antennae in Insects. Are they organs of
               hearing, of smell, or of a peculiar sensation ?

       k. The function of the femoral pores in Lizards, and the
               degree of importance due to them as offering charac
               ters for classification.

    5. That botanists in all parts of Great Britain and Ireland be
invited to compose and communicate to the Meetings of the Asso
ciation, Catalogues of local Floras, with indications of those
species which have been recently introduced, of those which are

· See Dr. Jacob's remarks, Reportt, vol. iv. p. 208.
t  See               by Mr. Westwood     and Mr.   Thompson in Phil.  Tram.
   See  Mesrs.ayJs.  Blackwall's paper,  Reportt,  vol. ii. p. 444.
X
XXX                 FIFTH REPORT -- 1835.

rare or very local, and of those which thrive, or which have be

come, or are becoming extinct; with such remarks as may be
useful towards determining the connexion which there may be
between the habitats of particular plants, and the nature of the
soil and the strata upon which they grow ; with statements of
the mean winter and summer temperature of the air and the
water, at the highest as well as the lowest elevation at which
species occur ; the hygrometrical condition of the air, and any
other information of an historical, ceconomical, and philosophi
cal nature.

    6. That Professor Daubeny be requested to institute an ex
tended inquiry into the exact nature of the secretions by the
roots of the principal cultivated plants and weeds of agriculture ;
and that the attention of botanists and chemists be invited to the
degree in which such secretions are poisonous to the plants that
yield them, or to others ; and to the most ready method of de
composing these secretions by manures or other means.

    7. That Mr. Mackay be requested to institute a series of ex
periments to determine the limits of species in the genus Saari-
fraga, and especially of those which are natives of Ireland.
Likewise, that he be requested to communicate a detail of the
peculiarities of the vegetation of the east and west coasts of
Scotland and of the opposite coast of Ireland.

    8. That a Committee be formed to conduct a series of experi
ments on the growth of plants from seeds, and to preserve the
results of their experiments, in order to establish the identity or
confirm the specific distinctions of certain allied plants, and to
communicate the results obtained from year to year at the Meet
ings of the Association*.

Desiderata noticed in Mr. Jenyns's Report on Zoology.

1. Local Faunas, in which the structure and habits of animals,
                                                           with scrupulous
although  --onmlyonoogfraaphfesw  species, shall be given   be investigated
accuracy                          in which species shall
with a view to their exact differences, and in which the syno
nyms of those which have been noticed by other authors shall

be distinctly made out.
2. Further attention to the Fishes and Invertebrata of the

British coasts, and especially to the Radiata of Cuvier. (Reports,
vol. iii. p. 249.)

   · Mr. Don, Librarian to the Linna?an Society, has undertaken to be the
channel of correspondence on this subject.
DESIDERATA, ETC.                      XXXI

Desiderata noticed in Professor Lindley's Report on Botany.

   1. An accurate account of the manner in which the woody.
part of plants is formed.

   2. An investigation of the comparative anatomy of flowerless
plants, with a view to discover in them the analogy and origin
of their organic structure.

    3. The cause of the various colours of plants.
    4. The nature of the faecal excretions of cultivated plants, and
of common weeds ; the degree in which those excretions are
poisonous to the plants that yield them, or to others ; the most
ready means of decomposing such excretions by manures or
other means.

MEDICAL SCIENCE.

                       Resolutions of the Committee.

   1 . That the effects of poisons on the animal coconomy should
be investigated and illustrated by graphic representations ; and
that a sum not exceeding 25/. be appropriated for this object.
Dr. Roupell and Dr. Hodgkin were requested to undertake this

investigation·.
   2. That an experimental investigation should be made of the

sensibilities of the Nerves of the Brain ; and that a sum not ex
ceeding 25/. should be appropriated to this object. Dr. Mar
shall Hall and Mr. S. D. Broughton were requested to undertake
these experiments')..

   3. That two Committees be appointed, one to meet in Edin
burgh and the other in London, for the purpose of investigating
the anatomical relations of the absorbent and nervous systems in
the different classes of animals, to be illustrated by injected pre
parations and graphic representations, and that the sum of 25/.
be placed at the disposal of each Committee for assisting the
prosecution of these researches.

   4. That two Committees be appointed, one to meet in Edin
burgh and the other in Dublin, to investigate the motions and
sounds of the heart, and that the sum of 50/. be placed at their
disposal^ ; and that it be an instruction to these Committees to
determine whether the muscular fibres of the columnar carneae
contract at the same precise moment as the mass of muscular
fibres of the ventricle ; also, what is the precise mode in which

· Reports, vol. iv. pp. 211 and 235.  f Reports, vol. hi. p. 676.

J Reports, vol. iv. p. 213.
XXxii  FIFTH REPORT 1835.

the tricuspid and mitral valves prevent the reflux of blood ; -- are
they floated up and stretched across the auriculo-ventricular
orifices, or are they drawn together to a point within the cavity
of the ventricle by the action of the columnae carneaj ?

   5. That two Committees be appointed, one to meet in Edin
burgh, the other in London, to communicate with the London
Statistical Society and the Statistical Committee of the Associa
tion relative to a registration of deaths, comprising particulars
of a medical nature·.

   6. That a Committee be appointed in Dublin to report on the
pathology of the brain and nervous systemf.

   7. That, considering the importance of the inquiry instituted
by Dr. Osborne on the action of cold and on the application of
a particular modification of the thermometer to the measuring of
refrigeration of the human body, Committees be appointed in
London, Edinburgh, and Dublin to prosecute the said inquiry.

                                       ARTS.
                     Resolutions of the Committee.
    1. That Messrs. Hodgkinson and Fairbairn be requested to
undertake a series of experiments on the difference of strength
and other mechanical properties of iron obtained by the hot and
cold blast under similar circumstances to the nature of the coal
employed, and from the same manufactory, and that a sum not
exceeding 30/. be placed at their disposal for that purpose.
   2. That the sum of 50/. be applied towards procuring, printing,
and circulating periodical statements of the duties of steam-
engines in Cornwall and elsewhere.

Desideratum noticed by Professor Barlow in his Report on the
                            Strength of Materials.

   A set of experiments on the application of a straining force

on vertical columns (of timber, iron, &c.) .

                             STATISTICS.

                       Resolutions of the Committee.
    1. That Colonel Sykes be requested to prepare for publica
tion his valuable statistical returns, collected by himself in India,

· Reports, vol. iv. p. 251.               t Report!, vol. iv.
                  DESIDERATA, ETC.                                        XXX111

relative to the four collectorates of the Deccan, subject to the
Bombay Government.

    2. That Professor Jones be requested to endeavour to obtain
permission to examine the statistical records understood to exist
in great number in the archives of the India House, and to pre
pare an account of the nature and extent of them·.

   3. That Mr. Taylor be requested to draw up a series of ques
tions upon the condition and habits of the mining population of
Cornwall and Wales, with a view to obtain a complete account
of the statistics of that class.

   4. That Dr. Chawnor be requested to furnish to the Statisti
cal Section of the British Association a return of the inquisi
tions taken before the Coroners of the county of Nottingham and
elsewhere within his neighbourhood ; and that it would be highly
desirable to have similar returns from all the counties of En
gland during the seven years ending 1 834, and that Mr. Hals-
well be requested to draw up a form in which to make this
record, and to obtain for the Association the returns from as
large a number of districts as may be in his power.

   5. That Mr. Halswell be requested to furnish returns of the
Hanwell Lunatic Asylum since its commencement.

    6. That inquiries into the state of education upon the plan
pursued by the Statistical Society of Manchester would afford
a very useful addition to statistical knowledge, and that it be
recommended that such inquiries be pursued in other towns and
districts, and the results arranged, for the sake of uniformity,
under the same heads as those adopted by the Manchester

Society f.

DIRECTIONS FOR OBSERVING THE TIDES.

Observations of tides along the coasts of Great Britain and
Ireland will be valuable, both in the construction of more ac

curate tide-tables, and as data toward the perfection of the
theory of tides.
    Observations  of the tides  should          record  particularly, --

   The time in hours and minutes, and height of high-water

daily, or, if convenient, every tide.
The time and height of low- water.

J· Professor ones reported to the Committee that, in pursuance of this re
commendation, he had applied for access to the archives of the East India
Company, and that, with their accustomed liberality, they had afforded him

every facility for prosecuting his researches.
t Reports, vol. iv., Notices, p. 1 22, infrd.
                                                                            i

                                c
XXxiv  FIFTH REPORT 1835.

    The direction of the wind, and the height of the barometer
and thermometer.

    The direction and velocity of the stream of flow and ebb.
    At what hour (with respect to the time of high-water and
low- water) the slack-water after the stream of flood, and after
the stream of ebb, respectively occur.
   The height of the water must be given from some fixed mark
or line, which should be described accurately, so that it may be
easily found again- at a future time. The observer ought to
state the manner in which the height was measured ; the man -
ner in which the moment of high-water was fixed upon ; the
time employed, whether apparent or mean solar time, and how
it was obtained.
    The height of the water at the end of every minute for half
an hour before the expected time of high-water, and until there
can be no doubt that the time of high-water is past. Machines
to dispense with this minute attention are described in the
Philosophical Transactions, 1831, and in the Nautical Maga
zine for October, 1832*.
    The uncertainty occasioned by waves may be avoided by
making the observation in a chamber, to which the water has
access by a small opening, or by fixing in the water an upright
tube (of wood or iron, for instance), the bottom or sides of the
tube being perforated ; in either case an upright measuring rod,
carefully graduated, and connected to a float, will rise and fall
with the tide, and permit, at any moment, the height of the
water to be read off against the collar through which it works.
This rod may be so constructed as to leave a moveable index at
the highest and lowest points.

   A long series of continued observations can alone be of use

towards the determination of the dependence of the time, height,
and other circumstances of high- and low-water upon the places
and distances of the sun and moon ; but a smaller number of
observations will often be sufficient to determine the establish
ment of any place, with more or less accuracy, according to the
number of observations ; and the best mode of doing this is by
comparative observations with some place of which the establish
ment is accurately known, or where observations are continually

carried on. A few sets of comparative observations of neigh
bouring places will give the relative time of high-water at these

places with considerable accuracy ; and thus the motion of the
tide-wave and the arrangement of the cotidal lines, (or lines

    · Tide-gauges may be seen in operation at St. Katharine's Docks, London.
An excellent one has lately been set up near Bristol by the Literary and Phi
losophical Institution of that city.
                                   DESIDERATA, ETC.

along which it is high-water at the same instant,) will be dis

covered. It would be very desirable for those who have the op

portunity, to combine, so as to effect the detailed description of
the tides through some small extent of coast, such as that which
has been effected by M. Daussy for the west coast of France.

    DIRECTIONS FOR OBSERVING THE AURORA
                                BOREALIS.

    Notwithstanding the attention which has been paid to the
phaenomena of the Aurora Borealis, and the various hypotheses
which have been imagined to explain them, it will be found that
there is a want of information on the points which are most
necessary as bases of induction ; and the British Association
have therefore been induced to appoint a Committee in the ex
press view of directing observers to the really important features
of this meteor, and of obtaining, by a system of contempo
raneous observation, data which experience shows cannot be
derived from insulated exertion.

    The following are the most important points which demand
the attention of observers :

    1. The elevation of the auroral arches and streamers above
the surface of the earth.

    2. The determination of the question whether the auroral ex
hibition is accompanied by sound.

    3. The existence of recurring periods of frequency and
brilliancy in the Aurora.

    4. The influence of arches, streamers, and other auroral phae
nomena upon the magnetic needle.

   1. It is recommended to all who intend to observe auroras

to make themselves well acquainted with the names of all the
principal stars to the north of the equator, especially those
which do not set here. This will be most easily done by study
ing a celestial globe. Good maps of the stars may also be con
sulted with advantage. Either the proper names or the Greek
characters with the name of the constellation will be sufficient.

    Persons who may prefer to determine the angular elevation
 and position of the arches and streamers by graduated instru
 ments, must be supposed well accustomed to the use of them ;
 they may, however, be reminded that telescopic sights are for
 this purpose useless, and that steady instruments, which can be
 handled with ease and expedition, are much more available for

                                                            c2
XXXVI         FIFTH REPORT 1835.

observations of these faint and often fluctuating meteors, than
others of a more refined construction.

  2. It is recommended that a magnetic needle be kept in a
proper place, suspended by a silk fibre or slender hair (a point-
support not   boebinsgervdeedlictaotetheenoaucgchu)r,acayndofso1'.mouItntheads,  that  devia
tions can be                                                                     been  found

convenient to fix in a garden a stone pedestal, on which, at
three invariable points, the frame of the magnetic needle rests
under a glass cover. The needle, 9 inches long, and of such a

weight as to perform about 10 vibrations in a minute, is sus
pended by one slender hair. There are simple contrivances to
steady the needle when required, and to adjust the length of the
suspending hair. The scale is divided in degrees for 30° on
each side of the centre, and in 10' for 1° on each side. There

is no vernier, but the place of the needle on the scale is read off
with great ease by looking through a fixed magnifying-glass
from an opening at some height above, so as to avoid sensible
parallax. Professor Christie has described more complete ap

paratus for this purpose in the Journal of the Royal Institu

tion, New Series, vol. ii. p. 278. The observer must leave his
watch with the assistant, very carefully remove all keys, knives,
and other things containing iron from his dress, and all loose
Ifiron tools and utensils to at least 20 feet distance from the
needle.       these precautions  are   not scrupulously attended to,
the results will be fallacious.       is proper to caution the obser
                                 It

ver that there is a regular daily variation of the needle, inde
pendent of the Aurora.
Dipping-needles, unless constructed with the utmost care,
cannot be considered very satisfactory instruments; yet, if
their suspension be sufficiently delicate, they may probably very
well answer for observations during Aurora, of which the object
is to determine, not the absolute dip of the needle, but the
change of dip occasioned by the Aurora. The same precautions
of one certain position, removal of iron, &c. are necessary, as in
the use of the horizontal needle.
  3. It
         is recommended  Ifthat arrangements be made for ascer
taining  the error of a  watch.       near an observatory of any

kind, the watch should be compared with the transit clock there

immediately after an Aurora ; if there is a good meridian line,
or good dial, the error of the watch on mean time should be

found as soon as possible ; if a watchmaker in the neighbour
if

                                                                                               ; it,
hood has a good regulator, the watch should be adjusted by
and the mode of keeping the regulator should be ascertained
a mail-coach from London passes near, the guard's watch
may be consulted. The longitude of the place of observation
                     DESIDERATA, ETC.                                                         XXXVU

should be ascertained from a map or otherwise. The attention
of observers is especially called to the point of ascertaining the
time correctly, as it is one of the most important points, and
the one which probably will require the longest forethought.

   4. In default of intelligence of an Aurora, the observer should

go out .of doors to some station where the horizon is pretty clear,
and look about every evening at 10, Greenwich mean solar time,
as near as may be. He should keep a journal, noting for this
time every evening whether there was an Aurora ; a single word
will be sufficient.
   5. As soon as the observer perceives or receives notice of an
Aurora, he should, if accustomed to magnetic observations, ob

serve the  magnetic needle,   and  should go  atonostoem-beoocko.mmaAndpinegr
situation  with his watch in  his  hand, and

son so prepared will have little difficulty in fixing on the ap
pearances most worthy of notice. We may, however, point out

the folloI.wiInfgth: ere is an arch, the positions of its two boundaries,
           its terminations, &c. should be noted by the way in
           which they pass among the stars (the proportion of
           distances between the stars admitting of very accurate

           estimation by the eye). If, as rarely happens, the sky

           is cloudy, the observer may notice the elevation and

           extent of the arch by moving till it appears to touch
           the top of some terrestrial object, noting his situation
           as well as he can, and the next day observing with a
           theodolite the angular elevation and azimuth of the

           object ; or ascertaining the height and horizontal di

           stance, and thence computing the angular elevation,

           and observing the azimuth by a common compass ;
           but it is recommended not to adopt this method when
           the observation of stars is practicable. Notice should

           be taken whether one edge is better defined than the

           other ; whether there is clear sky or dark cloud above
           or below ; whether it terminates at the end in sky or in
           cloud ; whether there is any dark band in it ; whether
           in its general composition it is uniform or striated ;
           ;
                                                 ;

                                                         it,

                                                                                           ;
II. Ifwhether stars can be seen through &c.

          any change takes place in the situation or appear
   ance of the arch, the observer should instantly look at
           his watch and set down the time, and then proceed to

III.note   the change.             or streamers,  the time                                    should  be
           there are beams
      If
           noted then their position among the stars then their
           height among the stars their motion (whether verti
xxxviii                       FIFTH REPORT -- 1835.

         tical or horizontal) ; the velocity of motion (by the time
         of passing from one star to another) ; their changes ;
         their permanency ; whether they appear to affect the
                                              front of it.
         IVa. rcIhf,   or to  be entirely in  clouds in the           luminous  re
                      there   are any black

         gion, notice should be taken whether the streamers

         seem to have any relation to them ; whether the arch
         seems to have any relation to them ; whether and in
            what manner
                              they increase or  disappear.            the  observer
         V. If there are      waves or flashes   of light,

         should notice the time of beginning and of fmishing ;
         the general extent of the flashes (up and down, as well

         as right and left) ; whether the flash is a real progress
         of light or successive illumination of different places ;

         VIa. ndThaenyetxhisitnegnceelseantdhact hastnrgikeesofhcimolo. urs will, of course,

             be noticed.

         IfVII. From time to time the needle should be observed.

                there are two persons capable of accurate observa
         tion, it is most desirable that one should steadily watch

         the needle and the other the sky.
6. When all is over, the observer should immediately put his
rough notes in form, and as soon as possible should compare his
watch with the regulator, or other authority for his time.
7. The next day he should, from a celestial globe, take the
altitudes and azimuths by means of the stars ; he should reduce
his observed time to Greenwich mean solar time, and he should
append these reductions to his rough observations. In this
state the observations are fit for publication, and adapted for

immediate use. It is desirable that they should be transmitted

without delay to the Assistant Secretary of the British Asso
ciation, Museum, York.

                              FALLING STARS.

  IM. Quetelet's mode of      olebtsteerrvinfrgomthehsiemm: --eteors  is  contained  in

the following extract of a
take my station out of doors, in a situation which commands
Ia good view of the sky, with a good map of the heavens spread

out before me. When a falling star appears, mark on the map
the point of its commencement, the line of its course amongst
the nearest stars, and the point where it vanished. This is done
by an arrow line, which marks the apparent direction and extent
of the course of the meteor ; the time is carefully noted ; a num
                           DESIDERATA, ETC.                                         XXXIX

ber of reference is placed on the line, and the principal circum
sfotarnmce:s--of the meteor are then registered in tables of the following

                   Magnitude                              Duration of     Time of
                                                                       appearance.
Epoch.  No. relative to stars, the appearance,                                      Remarks.

Aug. 29. 1              2                                 2".5 10h6'4".

  It is important to remark, whether the falling star leaves, or

not, any trace of its course, as sometimes happens, in the form
of reddish scintillations ; the condition of the atmosphere, as
determined by the usual instruments, should be noted ; the time
must be accurately ascertained ; more than one observer should
be engaged at each station, because the meteors sometimes suc
ceed one another very quickly, and the duration of the pheno
menon is too short to permit one person to note the position,
tim.e, and circumstances of each, with sufficient precision*.

        CONSTANTS OF NATURE AND ART.

"Amongst those works of science which are too large and too
Ilaborious for individual efforts, and are therefore fit objects to
be undertaken by united Academies,                                     wish to point out one

which seems eminently necessary at the present time, and which
would be of the greatest advantage to all classes of the scientific
Iwo"rld. would propose
                           that its title should                       be   The Constants of
Nature and of Art.
                           It ought to contain                         all  those facts which
can be expressed by numbers in the various sciences and arts."
(Babbage, Edinburgh Journal of Science, N.S., No. 12.)
The following extracts from Mr. Babbage's general plan of
contents will exemplify the objects and arrangement of the pro
posed work.
   These contents  should  consist                        of--
odirsb1tia.tn, Ac&ellc.ot--hf eepacrcoohnpsoptraltaninotentq,ou--af nlpitgeithrieitosdrebcoeefliovnergedivnofgrluotnitotont,hoe--ursiunsncy,lsi--nteamftoiorc;n--e
gravity on the surface of each, &c.                                                                                                                                 as

                                                                                                                                                                    of
                                                                                                                                                                    of

2. The atomic weight of bodies.                                                     gravity,--
ele3c.trLiciistty,o--f ttehneacmitye,ta--ls,spwecitifhic              for specific
                                                          columns    conducting     power for

                                                           heat, --

   * Contemporaneous observations are especially desirable on this subject; per
sons desirous of undertaking this investigation are therefore requested to apply
to a member of the Auroral Committee, or to the Assistant Secretary at York,
for information of the evenings and hours appointed for this purpose.
Xl FIFTII REPORT-- 1835.

fhreaactt,iv--e copnodwuecrt,in--g prpoopwoertrionforofelreacytsricreitfyle,c--temd eoltuint go-pf o1i0n0t,0--, --reat

an incidence of 90°.

bbnltweieuioenrrm45tniggh..tbohh,oeft--LS,f,rpiy--ls--ieoofotecfuiftwi,nsfosi--egucifnsicgmMspkaghprtiaartnoialmrlagpovae,oifmstbt--itriosietarknicstoloeiihsrafnlc,eo,m--utfpoomeawanfnrft,lieumult--rmhrmbaeitolbniewyndcecs,euoeire--itl,tguseoh.mo,--tet--ffnmeiostpmpspfueeaelsfrsrlapoeiaaocesrttdhucioirphfbneoirceos,ofnidg--geubhrp,claait--een,vvr--ddeii,nttrmysleae,&sgi--gnnsecruge.tndtae&ahuut,f,mcert----a.estr

SYNOPSIS OF SUMS APPROPRIATED TO
             SCIENTIFIC OBJECTS.

Redaction of Observations of Stars  £500

Discussion of Tides                 250

Constant of Lunar Nutation          100

Meteorological Instruments          100

Observations of the Temperature of the Earth . . . . 100
Comparative Level of Land and Sea
                                    100

Fossil Ichthyology                  105

Lens of Rock-salt                   80

Hourly Temperature                  55

Specific Gravity of Gases           50

Absorbents and Veins                50

Sounds of the Heart                 50

Duty of Steam-engines               50

Electric Light                      30

Equations                           30
Strength of Iron                    30

Experiments on long-continued Heat  25

Chemical Constants                  20

Refraction                          15

Tide Transcripts                    10

Rain-gauge Experiments              10

                                    £1760
               ADDRESS

                                                                BY

PROFESSOR SIR WILLIAM R. HAMILTON.

AT has fallen to my lot, Gentlemen, as one of your Secretaries for

the year, to address you on the present occasion. The duty would,

indeed, have been much better discharged had it been undertaken by

my brother secretary ; but so many other duties of our secretaryship

had been performed almost entirely by him, that I could not refuse to

attempt the execution of this particular office, though conscious of its
difficulty and its importance. For if we may regard it as a thing

established now by precedent and custom that an annual address

should be delivered, it is not, therefore, yet, and I trust that it will
never be, an office of mere cold routine, a filling up of a vacant hour,

on the ground that the hour must be some way or other got rid of. You
have not left your homes -- you have not adjourned from your several
and special businesses -- you have not gathered here, to have your time

thus frittered away in an idle and unmeaning ceremonial. There

ought to be, and there  is,
                             a
                                                                                    is ;
                        reason that some such thing should be

done that from year to year, at every successive reassembling, an
;

officer of your body should lay before you such an address and in
remembering what this reason is, we shall be reminded also of the

spirit in which the duty should be performed. The reason                                  the fit

ness and almost the necessity of providing, so far as an address can

provide, for the permanence and progression of the body, by inform
ing the new members, and reminding the old, of the objects and nature
of the Association, or by giving utterance to at least few of those
                        ;

                                  it
                                       d is

                                                a

                                                   if

                                                                 it
                                                                          is a
reflections which at such a season present themselves respecting its

progress and its prospects and  valid reason, and deserves to

be acted upon now, however little may have been left unsaid in the

addresses of my predecessors in this office. For even amongst the

members who have attended former meetings, and have heard those

eloquent addresses delivered by former secretaries,                             possible tiiat

1835.
Xlii FIFTH REPORT -- 1835.

some may have been so dazzled by the splendour of the spectacle, and

so rapt away by the enthusiasm of the time, as to have given but little
thought to the purport and the use, the meaning and the function of
the whole ; much more may it be presumed that of the several hundred

persons who have lately joined themselves as new members to this
mighty body, there are some, and even many, who have reflected little

as yet upon its characteristic and essential properties, and who have

but little knowledge of what it has been, and what it
is is                                                  and what

                                                   ;

                                     it
                                              is
                                                                            is
                                                                                 in
                                                                                                  is is,
                                                                                               is it
may be expected to become. First, then, the object of the Association

contained in its title                   the advancement of science. Our object

not literature, though we have many literary associates, and though

we hail and love as brethren those who are engaged in expressly

literary pursuits, and who are either themselves the living ornaments

of our land's language, or else make known to us the literary treasures
of other languages, and lands, and times. Our object not religion

in any special sense, though respect for religious things, and religious

men, has always marked these meetings, and though we are all bound

together by that great tie of brotherhood which unites the whole hu
man family as children of one Father who
                                                    heaven. Still less

our object politics, though we are not mere citizens of the world, but

are essentially a British Association of fellow-subjects and of fellow-

countrymen, who give, however, glad and cordial welcome to those

our visitors who come to us from foreign countries, and thankfully ac

cept their aid to accomplish our common purpose. That common pur

pose, that object for which Englishmen, and Scotchmen, and Irishmen

have banded themselves together in this colossal Association, to which

the eyes of the whole world have not disdained to turn, and to see

which, and to raise higher still, illustrious men from foreign lands
                             it

                                    ;
have come, is Science the acceleration of scientific discoveries, and

the diffusion of scientific influences. And  if     be inquired how this
                                                       is
                                                it

aim to be accomplished, and through what means, and by what instru

ments and process we as a body hope to forward science -- the answer

           is,
briefly that this great thing to be done by us through the agencyis
of the social spirit, and through the means, and instruments, and pro
cess which are contained in the operation of that spirit. We meet, we

speak, we feel together now, that we may afterwards the better think
and act and feel alone. The excitement with which this air filled
                                       ;
                                                                     ;

                                                                                   is ;

                                                                                                                  ;

                                                                                                      is
will not pass at once away the influences that are now among us will

not   (we  --trulestt)   be  transient,  but abiding those influences will be with
us   long               us   hope that   they will never leave us they will cheer,

they will animate us still, when this brilliant week  over they will

go with us to our separate abodes, will attend us on our separate
ADDRESS OF SIR WILLIAM HAMILTON.  xliii

journeys ; and whether the mathematician's study, or the astronomer'!
observatory, or the chemist's laboratory, or some rich distant meadow

 unexplored as yet by botanist, or some untrodden mountain-top, or
any of the other haunts and homes and oracular places of science, be
our allotted place of labour till we meet together again, I am persuaded
that those influences will operate upon us all, that we shall all remember

this our present meeting, and look forward with joyful expectation to

our next reassembling, and by the recollection, and by the hope, be

stimulated and supported. It is true, that it is the individual man
who thinks and who discovers ; not any aggregate or mass of men.

Each mathematician for himself, and not any one for any other, not

even all for one, must tread that more than royal road which leads
to the palace and sanctuary of mathematical truth. Each, for himself,

in his own personal being, must awaken and call forth to mental view
the original intuitions of time and space; must meditate himself on
those eternal forms, and follow for himself that linked chain of thought
which leads, from principles inherent in the child and the peasant, from
the simplest notions and marks of temporal and local site, from the

questions when and where, to results so varied, so remote, and seem

ingly so inaccessible, that the mathematical intellect of full-grown and

fully cultivated man cannot reach and pass them without wonder, and

something of awe. Astronomers, again, if they would be more than mere

artizans, must be more or less mathematicians, and must separately
study the mathematical grounds of their science ; and although in this

as in every other physical science, in every science which rests partly
on the observation of nature, and not solely on the mind of man, a faith

in testimony is required, that the human race may not be stationary,

and that the accumulated treasures of one man or of one generation
of men may not be lost to another ; yet even here, too, the individual

must act, and must stamp on his own mental possessions the impress

of his own individuality. The humblest student of astronomy, or
of any other physical science, if he is to profit at all by his study,
must in some degree go over for himself, in his own mind, if not in part
with the aid of his own observation and experiment, that process of in

duction which leads from familiar facts to obvious laws, then to the
observation of facts more remote, and to the discovery of laws of higher

orders. And if even this study be a personal act, much more must

that discovery have been individual. Individual energy, individual pa

tience, individual genius, have all been needed, to tear fold after fold
away, which hung before the shrine of nature ; to penetrate, gloom

after gloom, into those Delphic depths, and force the reluctant Sibyl to

utter her oracular responses. Or if we look from nature up to nature's
                                       d2
xllV FIFTH REPORT -- 1835.

God, we may remember that it is written -- " Great are the works of
the Lord, sought out of all those who have pleasure therein." But

recognising in the fullest manner the necessity for private exertion, and

the ultimate connexion of every human act and human thought with

the personal being of man, we must never forget that the social feel
ings make up a large and powerful part of that complex and multiform

being. The affections act upon the intellect, the heart upon the head.
In the very silence and solitude of its meditations, still genius is essen

tially sympathetic ; is sensitive to influences from without, and fain
would spread itself abroad, and embrace the whole circle of humanity,

with the strength of a world-grasping love. For fame, it has been truly
said, is love disguised. The desire of fame is a form of the yearning

after love ; and the admiration which rewards that desire, is a glorified

form of that familiar and every-day love which joins us in common life
to the friends whom we esteem. And if we can imagine a desire of
excellence for its own sake, and can so raise ourselves above (Well if
                                                                                        level of hu
we do not   in  the effort  thseinakspoiurarsteiolvnesaftbeerlofwa)mteheoncolym"mtohne  last infirmity
manity, as  to  account

of noble minds," it will still be true that in the greatest number of
cases, and of the highest quality,

                Fame is the spur that the clear spirit doth raise,
                To scorn delights, and live laborious days.

That mysterious joy-- incomprehensible if man were wholly mortal --

which accompanies the hope of influencing unborn generations ; that

rapture, solemn and sublime, with which a human mind, possessing or

possessed by some great truth, sees in prophetic vision that truth ac

knowledged by mankind, and itself long ages afterward remembered

and associated therewith, as its interpreter and minister, and sharing

in the offering duly paid of honour and of love, till it becomes a power

upon the earth, and fills the world with felt or hidden influence ; that

joy which thrills most deeply the minds the most contemptuous of

mere ephemeral reputation, and men who care the least for common
marks of popular applause or outward dignity -- does it not show, by
the revival, in another form, of an instinct seemingly extinguished, how

deeply man desires, in intellectual things themselves, the sympathy of
Ifman ?  then the ascetics of science -- if those who seem to shut them

selves up in their own separate cells, and to disdain or to deny them
selves the ordinary commerce of humanity -- are found, after all, to be

thus influenced by the social spirit, we can have little hesitation in

pronouncing that to the operation of this spirit must largely be ascribed

the labours of ordinary minds ; of those who do not even affect or seem
ADDRESS OF SIR WILLIAM HAMILTON.       xlv

to shun the commerce of their kind ; who accept gladly, and with ac-
knowledgedjoy, all present and outward marks of admiration or of

sympathy, and who are willing, and confess themselves to be so, to do

much for immediate reward, or speedy though perishing reputation.

Look where we will, from   the highest and most solitary sage who ever
desired " the propagation  of his own memory," and committed his

lonely labours to the world, in full assurance that an age would come,

when that memory would not willingly be let to die, down to the hum

blest labourer who was ever content to cooperate outwardly and sub

ordinate^ with others, and hoped for nothing more than present and
visible recompense, we still perceive the operation of that social spirit,

that deep instinctive yearning after sympathy, to use the power, and

(if it may be done) to guide the influences of which, this British Asso
ciation was framed. Thus much I thought that I might properly pre

mise, on the social spirit in general, and its influence upon the intellect

of man ; since that is the very bond, the great and ultimate reason, of

this and of all other similar associations and companies of studious

men. But you may well expect that in the short remaining time which
Iyour leisure this evening can spare,
                                       should speak more especially,

and more definitely, of this British Association in particular. And

here it may be right to adopt in part a more technical style, and to

Ienter more minutely into detail, than could yet persuade myself to

do, till 1 had eased myself in some degree of those overflowing emo

tions, which on such an occasion as this could hardly be altogether

suppressed. Presuming, therefore, that some one now demands, how

this Association differs from its fellows, and what peculiar means it has
of awakening and directing to scientific purposes the power of the

social spirit ; or why, when there were so many old and new societies

for science, it was thought necessary or expedient to call this society
also into being : I proceed to speak of some of the characteristic and

essential circumstances of this British Association, which contain the

answer to that reasonable demand. First, then, it differs in its mag

nitude and universality from all lesser and more local societies. So

evidently true is this, that you might justly blame me if I were to oc

cupy your time by attempting any formal proof of it. What other

societies do upon a small scale, this does upon a large ; what others
do for London, or Edinburgh, or Dublin, this docs for the whole triple

realm of England, Scotland, and Ireland. Its gigantic arms stretch

even to America and India, insomuch that it is commensurate with the

magnitude and the majesty of the British empire, on which the sun

never sets ; and that we hail with pleasure, but without surprise, the

enrolment of him among our members who represents the sovereign
  xlvi FIFTH REPORT 1835.

  here, and is to us the visible image of the head of that vast empire ;
  and the joy with which we welcome to our assemblies and to our ho

  spitality those eminent strangers who have come to us from foreign
 lands, rises almost above the sphere of private friendship, and partakes
  of the dignity of a compact between all the nations of the earth. For

 Igive me that have not yet been able to speak calmly in such a pre

  sence, and on such a theme. But it is not merely in its magnitude
 and universality, and consequently higher power of stimulating intellect

 through sympathy, that this Association differs from others. It differs

  also from them in its constitution and details ; in the migratory charac
 ter of its meetings, which visit, for a week each year, place after place
 in succession, so as to indulge and stimulate all, without wearying or
 burdening any ; in encouraging oral discussion, throughout its several
 separate sections, as the principal medium of making known among
 members the opinions, views, and discoveries of each other ; in calling
 upon eminent men to prepare reports upon the existing state of know
 ledge in the principal departments of science ; and in publishing only
 abstracts or notices of all those other contributions which it has not as
 a body called for ; in short, in attempting to induce men of science to
 work more together than they do elsewhere, to establish a system of

 more strict cooperation between the labourers in one common field, and

 thus to effect, more fully than other societies can do, the combination
 of intellectual exertions. In other societies, the constitution and prac
 tice are such, that the labours of the several members are compara

 tively unconnected, and few attempts are systematically made to com

bine and harmonize them together ; so that if we except that general
and useful action of the social spirit upon the intellect of which I have

 already spoken, and the occasional incitement to specific research, by
the previous proposal of prizes, there remains little beyond the publi
cation of Transactions, whereby they seek as bodies to cooperate in the
work of science. In them an author, of his own accord, hands in a

paper ; the title and subject are announced } it is referred to a Com

mittee for examination, and if it be approved of, it is published at the

expense of the society. This is a very great and real good, because

the most valuable papers are seldom the most attractive to common

purchasers, and because the authors of these papers are rarely able to
defray from their own funds the cost of an expensive publication.
There is no doubt that if it had not been for this resource, many essays
of the greatest value must have been altogether suppressed, for want of
pecuniary means. Besides, the approbation of a body of scientific

men, which is at least partially implied in their undertaking to publish

a paper, however limited and guarded it may be by their disclaimer of
            ADDRESS OF SIR WILLIAM HAMILTON.  xlvll

corporate responsibility, cannot fail to be accounted a high and honour
able reward ; and one, of which the hope must much assist to cheer
and support the author in his toils, by virtue of the principle of sym

pathy. It is known, and (I believe) was mentioned in an address to

this Association, at one of the former meetings, that the Principia and

Optics of Newton were published at the request of the Royal Society

of London. Newton, indeed, might well have thought that those
works did not need that sanction, if the meekness of his high faculties
had permitted him to judge of himself as all other men have judged of

him ; but our gratitude is not therefore due the less to the Society

whose request prevailed over his own modest reluctance, and procured
those treasures for that and for every age. It must be added that the

Royal and Astronomical Societies print abstracts of their communica

tions, for speedy circulation among their members, which is a useful

addition to the service done in publishing the papers themselves, and
is an example well worthy of being followed by all similar institutions ;

and that the Royal Society has even gone so far as to procure and

print, in at least one recent instance (I mean in the case of a paper of
Mr. Lubbock's), and perhaps also in some other instances, a report

from some of its members, on a memoir presented by another, thus
imitating an excellent practice of the Institute of France, which has
probably contributed much to the high state of science in that country.

This last procedure, and doubtless other acts of some other scientific

societies, such as the discussions in the Geological Society, the lending
of instruments by the Astronomical Society to its members, and the

occasional exhibition of models and experiments by members to the
body, in the Irish and other institutions, are examples of direct co

operation ; and perhaps there is nothing to prevent such cases being

greatly multiplied hereafter. But admitting freely these and other
claims of the several societies and academies of the empire to our gra

titude for their services to science, and accounting it a very valuable
privilege to belong, as most of us do, to one or other of those bodies,

and acknowledging that there is much work to be done which can only

be done by  them, we must still turn to this British Association, as the
body which
            is cooperative by eminence. -- The discussions in its sections

are more animated, comprehensive and instructive, and make minds

which were strangers, more intimately acquainted with each other, than

can be supposed to be the case in any less general body ; the general

meetings bring together the cultivators of all different departments of

science ; and even the less formal conversations, which take place in its

halls of assembly during every pause of business, are themselves the
working together of mind with mind, and not only excite but are co
xlviii   FIFTH REPORT -- 1835.

operation. Express requests also are systematically made to indivi
duals and bodies of men, to cooperate in the execution of particular

tasks in science, and these requests have often been complied with.

But more perhaps than all the rest, the reports which it has called forth
on the existing state of the several branches of knowledge are astonish
ing examples of industry and zeal exerted in the spirit and for the pur

Ipose of cooperation. No other society, believe, has yet ventured to

call on any of its members for any such report, and indeed it would be
a difficult, perhaps an invidious thing, for any one of the other socie

ties or academics so to do. For such a report should contain a large

and comprehensive view of the treasures of all the academies ; and
would it not be difficult for a zealous member of any one of them, un
dertaking the task at the request of his own body, to form and to ex

press that view with all the impartiality requisite 1 Would there not be
some danger of a bias, in some things to palliate the defects of his own

particular society, and in other things to exalt beyond what was strictly
just, its true and genuine merits? But a body like the British Asso

ciation which receives indeed all communications, but publishes (ex

cept by  abstract) none, save   only those very reports which    it had pre
viously  and specially called                                   governed by
                               for, --a body such as this, and

such regulations, may hope, that standing in one common relation to all
the existing academies, and not belonging to the same great class of

societies publishing papers, the members whom it has selected for the

task may come before it to report what has resulted from the labours
of all those different societies, without any excessive depression or any
undue exultation, and in a more unbiassed mood of mind than would

be possible under other circumstances. Accordingly the reports already

presented by those eminent men who were selected for the office, (and
rightly so selected, because a comprehensive mind was not less needed

than industry,) appear to have been drawn up with as much impar

tiality as diligence ; they comprise a very extensive and perfect view
of the existing state of science in most of its great departments : and

if in any case they do not quite bring down the history of science to

this day (as certainly they go near to do), they furnish some of the best
and most authentic materials to the future writer of such history. But
we should not only underrate the value of those reports, but even quite

mistake the character of that value if we were to refer it all to its con

nexion with distant researches, and some unborn generation. They
will, indeed, assist the future historian of science ; but it was not solely,

nor even chiefly for that purpose they were designed, nor is it solely
or chiefly for that purpose which they will answer. They belong
to our own age ; they are the property of ourselves as well as of our
           ADDRESS OF SIR WILLIAM HAMILTON.                         xlix

children. To stimulate the living, not less than to leave a record to

the unborn, was hoped for, and will be attained, through those novel
and important productions. In holding up to us a view of the existing

state of science, and of all that has been done already, they show us

that much is still to be done, and they rouse our zeal to do it. Can

any person look unmoved on the tablet which they present of the bril
liant discoveries of this century, in any one of the regions of science?

Can he see how much has been achieved, what large and orderly struc

tures have been in part already built up, and are still in process nf

building, without feeling himself excited to give his own aid also in the

work, and to be enrolled among the architects, or at least among the

workmen ? or can any person have his attention guided to the many
wants that remain, can he look on the gaps which are still unfilled,
even in the most rich and costly of those edifices (like the unfinished
window that we read of in the palace of eastern story), without longing

to see those wants supplied, that palace raised to a still more complete
perfection ; without burning to draw forth all his own old treasures of

thought, and to elaborate them all into one new and precious offering ?

-- The volume containing the reports which were presented at the last
meeting of the Association has been published so very recently, that

it is perhaps scarcely yet in the hands of more than a few of the mem
bers ; some notice of its contents may therefore be expected from me
now, though the notice which I can give must of necessity be brief and

inadequate. I shall speak first of two reports, which may in a certain

sense be said to be on foreign science. Science, indeed, as has been

well remarked, is not properly of any country ; but men of science are,

and in studying the works of their brethren of foreign nations, they at
once increase their own stock of knowledge, and cultivate those kindly
feelings of general good will, which are among the very best results of
all our studies, an.l of all our assemblings together. The first report of

the volume is that which Professor Rogers, of Philadelphia, has pre
sented, at the request of the British Association, upon American Geo

logy. The kindness of an eminent British Geologist, whose name

would command attention if I thought myself at liberty to mention
         I
             I

                                            is
                                                                         in

                                                                                                                             a
                                                                                                                       it,
and whom had requested to state to me writing his opinion on this

report, enables me to furnish you with a notice respecting its nature,

which shall accordingly read, instead of presuming to substitute any

remarks    of my own on the  subject.      Rogers  was  to  convey  clear
                             by Professor
   " Thtf   object proposed

summary of what had been ascertained concerning the geology of

America, whether the knowledge acquired had been communicated to

the public or not. This not very different from the object contem
1 FIFTH REPORT 1835.

plated by other reporters ; but in the execution of the report it is found

that a marked peculiarity arises. For the far greater portion of the
report contains the result of Mr. Rogers's own reasonings on data, many
of which appear for the first time in his essay. It has therefore more
the character of a memoir than of an ordinary report. Were any one

to adopt this plan in treating of the state of European geology he might
be blamed, because the value of such a report would consist in the dis
cussion of a vast mass of published data, and in the comparison of theo
retical notions proposed by persons of high reputation. But in treat
ing of America this was not the case; because, first, little authentic
was known in Europe on the subject -- second, there are few American
authors of high repute in geology. This character of originality is

certainly well supported by the author's own researches, and it is not

surprising if his work contains some errors, still less remarkable that
it should have excited some opposition at home. But the writer of the

report has really taken much pains, has exhibited much patience, and
has brought to his task a competent knowledge of European geology.

It has certainly cleared our notions of the general features of American
geology, and particularly augmented our positive knowledge of the

more recent deposits, as regards organic remains, mineral characters,

and geographical features. It is to be continued."
  The other report which I alluded to, as almost entitled to be called

a report on foreign science, is the report of the Rev. Mr. Challis on
the theory of capillary attraction, which is a sequel to that presented at
Cambridge on the common theory of fluids, and which the author pro

poses to follow up hereafter by another report on the propagation of

motion as affected by the development of heat. Mr. Challis remarks,

that while many questions in physics are to be resolved by unfolding

through deductive reasoning the consequences of facts actually ob
served, there is also another class of questions in physical science, in

which the facts that are to be reasoned from are not phaenomena ; for
example, the fact of universal gravitation for which the evidence is in

ductive indeed, but yet essentially mathematical, the fact not coming

itself under the cognisance of any of our senses, although its mathe

matical   consequences    are  abundantly attested by observations. Mr.
Challis  goes on to say        The great problem of universal gravitation,
                         --"

which is the only one of this class that can be looked upon as satisfac

torily solved, relates to the large masses of the universe, to the depen

dence of their forms on their own gravitation, and the motions result

ing from their actions on one another. The progress of science seems

to tend towards the solution of another of a more comprehensive na

ture, regarding the elementary constitution of bodies and the forces by
ADDRESS OF SIR WILLIAM HAMILTON.                                         li

which their constituent elements are arranged and held together.

Various departments of science appear to be connected together by
the relation they have to this problem. The theories of light, heat,

electricity, chemistry, mineralogy, crystallography, all bear upon it.

A review, therefore, of the solutions that have been proposed of all

such questions as cannot be handled without some hypotheses respect
ing the physical condition of the constituent elements of bodies, would

probably conduce by a comparison of the hypotheses towards reaching

that generalization to which the known  connexion   of the sciences   seems
to point." The author finally remarks,             questions of this    kind
                                          that "

have of late largely engaged the attention of some French mathemati
cians, and the nature of their theories, and the results of the calcula

tions founded on them, deserve to be brought as much as possible into

notice." Acting upon these just views, Mr. Challis has accordingly

performed, for the British Association and for the British public, the
important office of reviewing and reporting upon those researches of
Laplace, Poisson, and Gauss, respecting the connexion of molecular
attraction, and of the repulsion of heat, with the ascent of fluids in
tubes, which give to his report so much of that foreign character which

I have already ventured to ascribe to it ; yet, it is just to add, and,

indeed, Mr. Challis does so, that as Newton first resolved the ma

thematical problem of gravitation, in its bearings on the motion of a

planet about the sun, and went far to resolve the same extensive pro

blem in its details of perturbation also ; he likewise first resolved a
problem of molecular forces, and clearly foresaw and foretold the ex
tensive and almost universal application of such forces to the mathe
matical explanation of the most varied classes of phenomena; and that
the theory of capillary attraction, in particular, has received some very

valuable illustrations in England from the late Dr. Thomas Young. I

ought to mention that a very interesting report, on the foreign mathe
matical theories of electricity and magnetism was read in part this
morning to the mathematical and physical section, by the Rev. Mr.

Wbewell.

   The next report after that of Mr. Challis in the volume, is the re
port I have already alluded to, by Professor Lloyd, on the progress and
present state of physical optics ; respecting which I should have much
to say, if I did not fear to offend the modesty of the author, and were

not restrained by the recollection that he is a member of the same Uni
Iversity with myself, and a countryman and friend of my own.
                                                                      shall

therefore simply express my belief, that no person who shall hereafter
set about to form an opinion of his own on the question between the

two theories of light, will think himself at liberty to dispense with the
Hi FIFTH ItEPORT 1835.

study of this report. I may add that it also, as well as that of Mr.

Challis, draws largely from foreign stores i but if Huygens was the

first inventor, and Frcsnel the finest unfolder, and Cauchy the pro-
foundest mathematical dynamician, of the theory of the propagation of

light by waves ; and if the names of Malus, and Biot, and Arago, and

Mitscherlich, and other eminent foreigners are familiar words in the
annals of physical optics, we also can refer, among our own illustrious

dead, to names enshrined in the history of this science -- to the names
of Newton, and Wollaston, and Young --and among our living fellow-

countrymen and fellow-members of this Association, (unhappily not

present here,) we have Brewster and Airy to glory of. It should be

mentioned that the author of the report has himself made contributions
to the science of light, more valuable than any one could collect from

the statements in the report itself, and that important communications

in that science are expected to be made during the present week, by
Professor Powell, to a general meeting, and by Mr. MacCullagh to

the physical section.

   (The Secretary here read a notice, which he had procured from a
scientific friend, of the report by Professor Jenyns on zoology ; and

afterwards continued his own remarks, as follows :)
   The remaining reports in the new volume are those by Mr. Rennie

on hydraulics ; by Dr. Henry of Manchester, on the laws of conta
gion ; and by Professor Clark of Cambridge, on animal physiology,

and especially on our knowledge respecting the blood. Mr. Kennie's

report contains, 1 believe, new facts from the manuscripts of his father,
and is in other ways a valuable statement, industrionsly drawn up, of
the recent improvements in the practice of hydraulics, to the th ory of

which science it is to be lamented that so little has lately been added :

Iand without pretending to judge myself of the merits of the two other
reports, I may mention them as compositions which  know to have

interested persons, with whose professional and habitual pursuits they

have no close connexion, and therefore, as an instance of the accom

plishment of one great end proposed by our Association, that of draw

ing together different minds, and exciting intellectual sympathy. The
other contents of the volume are accounts of researches undertaken at

the request of the Association, notices in answers to queries and re
commendations of the same body, and miscellaneous communications.

Of these, it is of course impossible to speak now ; your time would
not permit it. Yet, perhaps, I ought not to pass over the mention of

one particular recommendation which has happened to become the sub

ject of remarks elsewhere -- I mean that recommendation which advised

an application to the Lords of the Treasury for a grant of money, to
       ADDRESS OP SIR WILLIAM HAMILTON.                                               li'li

be used in the reduction of certain Greenwich observations, the result

of which recommendation is noticed in the volume before us. In all
Ithat
       have hitherto said respecting this Association, I have spoken

almost solely of its internal effects, or those which it produces on the

minds and acts of its own members. But it is manifest that such a so

ciety cannot fail to have also effects which are external, and that its

influence must extend even beyond its own wide circle of members.

It not only helps to diffuse through the community at large a respect

and interest for the pursuits of scientific men, but ventures even to

approach the throne, and to lay before the King the expression of the
wishes of this his Parliament of science, on whatever subject of national

importance belongs to science only, and is unconnected with the pre

dominance in the state of any one political party. It was judged that
the reduction of the astronomical observations on the sun and moon,

and planets, which had been accumulating under the care of Bradley
and his successors, at the Royal and national Observatory of Green
wich, since the middle of the last century, but which, except so far as

foreign astronomers might use them, had lain idle and useless till now,
to the great obstruction of the advance of practical as well as theoreti

cal science, was a subject of that national importance, and worthy of
such an approach to the highest functionaries of the state. It hap

pened that I was not present when the propriety of making this appli
cation was discussed, so that I do not know whether the authority of

Bessel was quoted. That authority has not at least been mentioned,

to my knowledge, in any printed remarks upon the question, but as it

bears directly and powerfully thereupon, you will permit me, perhaps,

to occupy a few moments by citing it.

   Professor Bessel of Koenigsberg, who, for consummate union of

theory and practice, must be placed in the very foremost rank, may be

placed perhaps at the head of astronomers now living and now work

ing, published not long ago that classical and useful volume, the Tabula
                         I now
Regiomontance,  which            hroelmd arikns,mythahtan"d.the  In the introduction  to
                tables,  Bessel
this volume of                                                   present knowledge    of

the solar system has not made all the progress which might have been

expected from the great number and goodness of the observations made

on the sun, and moon, and planets, from the times of Bradley down.

It may, indeed, be said with truth, that astronomical tables do not err
now by so much as whole minutes from the heavens ; but if those

tables differ by more than five seconds now, after using all the present
means of accurate reduction, from a well-observed opposition of a

planet (for example), their error is as manifest and certain now as an
error exceeding a minute was, in a former state of astronomy -- and the
1'lV FIFTH REPORT 1835.-

discrepancies between the present tables and observations are not un

commonly outside that limit. The cause is doubtful. Errors of ob

servation to such amount they cannot be ; and therefore they can only
arise from some wrong method of reduction, or wrongly assumed ellip
tic elements or masses of the planets, or insufficiently developed for

mulae of perturbation, or else they point to some disturbing cause,

which still remains obscure, and has not yet been reached by the light

of theory. But it ought surely to be deemed the highest problem of

astronomy, to examine with the utmost diligence into that which has

been often said, but not as yet in every case sufficiently established,

whether theory and experience do really always agree. When the

solution of this weighty problem shall have been most studiously made
trial of, in all its parts, then either will the theory of Newton be per

fectly and absolutely confirmed, or else it will be known beyond all

doubt that in certain cases it does not suffice without some little change,
or that besides the known disturbing bodies there exist some causes of

disturbance still obscure." And then after some technical remarks,

less connected with our present subject, Bessel goes on to say, "To me,

considering all these things together, it appears to be of the highest

moment (plurimum valere) towards our future progress in the know
ledge of the solar system, to reduce into catalogues as diligently as can

be done, according to one common system of elements, the places of all

the planets observed since 1750, than which labour, 1 believe that no

other now will be of greater use to astronomy" ( . . quo labore nullum

credo nunc majorcm utilitatem Astronomies allaturtim esse). Such is

the opinion of Bessel ; but such is not the opinion of an anonymous
censor, who has written of us in a certain popular review. To him it

seems a matter of little moment that old observations should be re

duced. Nothing good, he imagines, can come from the study of those
obsolete records. It may be very well that thousands of pounds should

continue to be spent by the nation, year after year, in keeping up the

observatory at Greenwich ; but as to the spending 5001. in turning to

some scientific profit the accumulated treasures there, that is a waste

of public money, and an instance of misdirected influence on the part of

the British Association. For you, gentlemen, will rejoice to hear, if

any of you have not already heard
   it                                  and those who have heard al
            it,                        is
                                                   in

                                                     it
ready will not grudge to hear again, that through the influence of

this Association, what Bessel wished, rather than hoped, now pro

cess of accomplishment and that, under the care of the man who in
:

England has done most to show how much may be done with an ob

servatory, that national disgrace  is  to be removed, of ignorance or  in

difference about those scientific treasures which England has almost
         ADDRESS OF SIB WILLIAM HAMILTON.                             lv

unconsciously been long amassing, and which concern her as the coun

try of Newton and the maritime nation of the world. For the spirit
of exactness is diffusive, and so is the spirit of negligence. The close
ness, indeed, of the existing agreement between the tables and the ob
servations of astronomers is so great, that it cannot easily be conceived

by persons unfamiliar with that science. No theory has ever had so

brilliant a fortune, or ever so outrun experience, as the theory of gra

vitation has done. But if astronomers ever grow weary, and faintly
turn back from the task which science and nature command, of con
stantly continuing to test even this great theory by observation, if they

put any limit to the search, which nature has not put, or are content to

leave any difference unaccounted for between the testimony of sense
and the results of mathematical deduction, then will they not only be
come gradually negligent in the discharge of their other and more prac

tical duties ; and their observations themselves, and their nautical alma

nacs will then degenerate instead of improving, to the peril of navies
and of honour; but also they will have done what in them lay, to mu
tilate outward nature, and to rob the mind of its heritage. For, be we

well assured that no such search as this, were it only after the smallest
of those treasures which wave after wave may dash up on the shore of
the ocean of truth, is ever unrewarded. And small as those five seconds

may appear, which stir the mind of Bessel, and are to him a prophecy
of some knowledge undiscovered, perhaps unimagined by man, we may
remember that when Kepler was "feeling" as he said, "the walls of
ignorance, ere yet he reached the brilliant gate of truth," he thus ex

pressed himself respecting discrepancies which were not larger for the
science of his time: -- "These eight minutes of difference, which can
not be attributed to the errors of so exact an observer as Tycho, arc
about to give us the means of reforming the whole of astronomy." We

indeed cannot dream that gravitation shall ever become obsolete ; per

haps it is about to receive some new and striking confirmation ; but
Newton never held that the law of the inverse square was the only law

of the action of body upon body ; and the question
I                                                   whether some
              :
            it
                                                                          in
                                                                                             is,
                                                                                    a a It
other law or mode of action, coexisting with this great and principal

one, may not manifest some sensible effect  the heavens to the deli

cacy of modern observation, and especially of modern reduction.

was worthy of the British Association to interest themselves in such

subject  was worthy of British rulers to accede promptly to such

request.

      have been drawn into too much length by the consideration of this
instance of the external effects of our Association, to be able to do

more than allude to the kindred instance of the publication of the ob
lvi Fifth report-- 1835.

servations on the tides in the port of Brest, which has, T am informed,
been ordered by the French Government, at the request of M. Arago
and the French Board of Longitudes, who were stimulated to make
that request by a recommendation of the British Association at Edin
burgh. Many other topics, also, connected with your progress and

Iprospects, must pass over, having occupied your time so long ; and
Iin particular must waive what, indeed, is properly a subject for your

general committee -- the consideration whether anything can be done,
or left undone, to increase still more the usefulness of this Association,
and the respect and good will with which it is already regarded by the
other institutions of this and of other countries. As an Irishman, and

a native of Dublin, I may be suffered in conclusion to add my own to

the many voices which welcome this goodly company of English, and
Scottish, and foreign visitors to Ireland and to Dublin. We cannot,

indeed, avoid regretting that many eminent persons, whose presence

we should much enjoy, are not in this assembly ; though not, we trust,

in any case, from want of their good will or good opinion. Especially
we must regret the absence of Sir David Brewster, who took so active

Ia part in forming this association : but am authorized, by a letter

from himself, to mention that his absence proceeds entirely from pri

vate causes, and that they form the only reason why he is not here.
Herschel, too, is absent ; he has borne with him to another hemisphere
his father's fame and his own ; perhaps, from numbering the nebula;
invisible to northern eyes, he turns even now away to gaze upon some
star, which we, too, can behold, and to be in spirit among us. And

other names we miss ; but great names, too, are here : enough to give
assurance that in brilliance and useral effect, this Dublin meeting of the
Association will not be inferior to former assemblings, but will realize
our hopes and wishes, and not only give a new impulse to science, but

also cement the kindly feeling which binds us all together already.
                 REPORTS

                                              ON

       THE STATE OF SCIENCE.

Hieeppoort on the Recent Progress and Present Condition of the
Mathematical       Theories  Wof hEelewcetrlilc,itFye,lloMwagannedtisTmu,toranodf

Heat. By the       Rev. W.
Trinity College,
                   Cambridge.

A HE trophies of Miltiades would not let Themistocles rest.

The trophies of Newton, won at the end of the seventeenth cen
tury, made it impossible for the physical philosophers of the
eighteenth not to attempt new victories in the application of
mechanical principles to the phenomena of the material world.
Newton himself had pointed out this as the business of his suc
" Icessors.  have                                                      of his preface
                   "detdhuecemdo,"tionsasysofhteh,eapt latnheetsenbdy  mathematical
to the Principia,
Ireasoning from forces ; and would that we could derive the other
Iphenomena of nature from mechanical principles by the same

mode of reasoning. For many things move me, so that some
what suspect, that all such may depend on certain forces by which
the particles of bodies, through causes not yet known, are either

urged towards each other and cohere according to regular figures,
or are repelled and recede from each other : and these forces
Ibeing unknown, philosophers have hitherto made their attempts

on nature in vain. But hope that the principles here laid down

may supply some light either to this mode of philosophizing or
to some one which is more true."

  It is usually assumed that Newton's anticipations and wishes
have been fulfilled. Several mathematical and mechanical Sciences
have since his time made their appearance in the world, claim
ing to be the younger sisters of Physical Astronomy ; like her, fed
by exact facte, formed by rigorous principles. Yet their birth

and reception have never excited so much general notice as such

events might be expected to produce ; they have gradually be
come known to a limited circle of mathematicians, and have not,

1835.                          B
2 FIFTH REPORT 1835.

like the first-born of their race, filled the civilized world with the
noise of their fame. Moreover, it is allowed, or rather boasted,
that it is only very recently that the mathematical train of rea
soning which belongs        several of these new sciences
rendered complete.     to  may therefore be of service to             has been
                                                                      examine
                      It
Ithe claims of these parts of knowledge so far as they profess to
be mathematical and mechanical sciences.                              hope the under
taking will lose all appearance of presumption, when it is recol
lected that, in executing it, my main task will be, to study certain
mathematical theories and calculations, to look at the recorded

facts which are alleged to confirm these theories, and to describe
as distinctly as possible the result of the comparison. Such an
employment will not lead the writer to trespass on the domaiti of
any one whose business is with new classes of facts, nor tempt
him to judge any theory which does not profess to depend en

Itirely on mathematical calculation from measured observations.

   The Sciences to which shall at present direct my attention
are those of Electricity, Magnetism, and Heat. These sciences

have sufficient connexion, both in the mathematical reasoning
by which they have been established and the philosophical prin
ciples on which they depend, to make them a fit group to be
Itreated of together. Though they have several features in com
moEnl,ectsrhicaitllyg. --iveElaecbtrriiecfitayc, coauftnetr  of each   separately.   distinct
                                                              being   brought under
conceptions by Franklin and his contemporaries, was formed into
a mathematical science by iEpinus ; the theory of ^Epinus was
reformed by Coulomb; the calculations which Coulomb could not
execute, Poisson in our own time has performed : such are the
main steps in the history of electricity as a mathematical science.
The theory of electricity of ^Epinus assumed one electric fluid
only : it invested this fluid with these two properties, that its
particles repelled each other with forces increasing with a dimi
nution of their mutual distance ; and that its particles attracted
the particles of all other bodies with a force following the same
law. On these suppositions (assuming also the difference of
conductors and electrics with respect to the easy transfer of the
fluid) a great part of the facts of electricity by induction, and of
electrical attraction and repulsion, could be explained in a man

ner strictly mechanical.
   But taking  the whole of the experimental                           facts, a third sup
position was   found to be necessary ; -- that                        the particles of all
bodies repel each other with the same force with which they at
tract the electric fluid. For, without this addition to the theory,
how could two negatively electrified bodies repel each other with

the same force as two positively electrified, since by supposition
       REPORT ON ELECTRICITY', MAONETI8M, AND HEAT.                  3

they had both a deficiency of the repulsive element ? yEpinus
therefore found himself obliged to ascribe a mutual repulsion
(incomparably greater than the force of gravity) to the particles
of all bodies.

Coulomb established, what Mayer and Lambert had already
ascertained, that the electrical force follows the law of the in

verse square of the distance ; and this was to be taken therefore
as the law of the attraction and repulsion of the particles of the
fluid in the /Epinian theory : but the theory stood in need of
modification, and this it received from Coulomb.
Coulomb's reform of the electric theory of jEpinus consisted
in assuming two opposite fluids, each attracting the particles of

the other and repelling its own, by which means the repulsive
force of the particles of the bodies was no longer admitted. The
theory of one fluid had had many adherents, and the most persua
sive argument in its favour was its greater simplicity ; but when
it was shown to involve the assumption that the particles of all
bodies, though they attract each other with a force varying in
versely as the square of the distance by the law of gravitation,
repel each other by a much greater force varying according to
the same law, the doctrine of a single fluid certainly lost at least
the prerogative of simplicity. And when further it appeared that

the same reasoning applied to magnetism ; and that, on the hy
pothesis of one electric and one magnetic fluid the particles of
iron must have, besides the attraction of gravitation, two other
forces of mutual repulsion, one electric and one magnetic, all
the three forces following the same law, it could not be doubted
that the superiority of simplicity was transferred to the side of
the hypothesis of two opposite electric and two opposite mag
netic                                           Coulomb adopted.
       fluids. These hypotheses   accordingly   results of the hypo
   It  now became necessary to   calculate the
thesis ; and so far as this went, the results of the ^Epinian and
Coulombian theories were the same. The calculation could be

performed in a very limited range of cases, according to the
mathematical methods which were in common use at that time.

/Epinus had traced the general character of these results in his
work published in 1759; and Cavendish, in the Phil. Trans.
for 17/1, had examined them further, assuming any law between
the inverse simple power and inverse cube of the distance, but
obviously inclining to the inverse square. But Coulomb had
invented and employed delicate methods of ascertaining precisely
the distribution of electric intensity in many cases not contem
plated by preceding writers, and had to calculate the results of
such cases for the sake of that comparison on which his theory

was to rest.                     b2
4 FIFTH REPORT -- 1835.

The calculation in these cases was far from easy. The same
entanglement occurred here which mathematicians had already
found so perplexing in the problem of the Figure of the Earth ;
namely, that the attractions could not be calculated without
knowing the form of the mass, and yet the form depended on
the equilibrium of those very attractions. The only ways in
which this difficulty could be surmounted were, either to devise
methods for finding the attractions of bodies which should be
applicable to all forms; or else, to assume some form, and to

calculate the attraction, and then to modify the assumption so
as to make it approach to a fulfilment of the conditions of equi
librium. The first-mentioned method was in the course of in

vention by Legendre and Laplace at the time of Coulomb's
researches. Some of the earliest memoirs in which it is used

appear in the very same volumes of the Transactions of the
French  (A1c7a8d2em--y17a8s9C).ouloBmutb'ist
netism                                        memoirs   on electricity and mag
                                              required  a long period to fami
liarize even the best mathematicians with this method, and its

application to electricity was reserved for a later period, and for
the skill of M. Poisson. In the mean time Coulomb applied,
with great industry and ingenuity, such artifices as were obvious
to a geometer of that time. For example*, in treating the case
of two spheres, in order to determine the proportion in which the
electric fluid distributes itself between them when one is elec

trised and brought into contact with the other, he supposed, as
an approximation, the fluid to be uniformly spread over the sur
face of each, in order to calculate its attraction ; although it is
manifest that, in fact, the mutual repulsion of the parts of the
fluid will make its density vanish at the point of contact, and

increase gradually up to the point diametrically opposite. In
order to correct this process, he supposes a small segment of the
sphere surrounding the point of contact to be void of fluid, and

finds the effect of this segment as if it were a circular plane.
In a case in which a sphere is in contact with other spheres at
two opposite points or poles, he finds the attraction of its fluid
on two suppositions ; one, that it is spread uniformly, another,
that it is all collected in a ring at the equator of the sphere : the
real distribution will be intermediate between these two supposi
tions, because the density of the fluid at the poles vanishes, and
increases gradually up to the equator ; hence Coulomb takes the
mean of the results of the two suppositions, as more approximate
to the truth than either of them. He pursues methods of this
kind with a very unsparing expenditure of labour ; for instance,

        * Acad. Park. 1787.
   REPORT ON ELECTRICITY, MAGNETISM, AND HEAT.                                             5

he calculates the relative quantities of electricity which will exist
at the surfaces of each of 25 spheres, placed in a straight line,
hy elimination among the requisite number of equations*.

   In this manner Coulomb obtains theoretical results correspond
ing to a great number of experiments carefully made and ex
tremely varied in their circumstances. The agreement of the
theoretical with the experimental numbers is not exact ; which

indeed could not be expected, since the former are only approxi
mations, and the latter are affected by unavoidable errors. But
an agreement appeared in the general scale and proportion of the
numbers which shows that the theory gave in all cases the true
quantity either exactly or very nearly ; and this was further
confirmed by the consideration of extreme cases, as pointed con
ductors, long conducting strings, and the like. Cases including

long wires and plates had also been calculated by Cavendish,
and found to agree in  their   general features with
                       also    that Coulomb, at the      experiments.
It should be observed                                   very outset of
his researches, had begun by ascertaining experimentally the for
mula? by which allowance was to be made for two main causes
of error, the dispersion of electricity from electrised bodies into
Ithe air, and its escape along the supports which were intended
to insulatef .  conceive that if the results of the theory and
ociftyexJp,ewriemreencto, lleacstesdtatiendpianraClleolucloomlumb'nss,sitxhemaemmoouirnst
                                                                                           on electri
                                                                                           of evidence

would be considered as quite sufficient to prove that the theory
gave at least good approximate laws of the phenomena in a large
class of cases of the distribution of electricity ; and adding to
these the previous agreement obtained by Cavendish, this merit
might be claimed for it through almost the whole range of ob

Ivious cases.

      do not think Coulomb has anywhere, .after thus establish
ing the truth of his formulae, summed up the evidence, and given
his own view of the degree of certainty of the theory. In his
                               §a,ndheadsdpse,ak"sAosf
I6th

and
   memoir on electricity                                the two theories of one
   of two electric fluids,                              these two explanations

have only a greater or less degree of probability, warn the
reader, in order to put the following theory out of the reach of

Iall systematic dispute, that in the supposition of two electric

fluids have no other intention than to present the results of
calculation and of experiment with the smallest possible number

Iof elements, and not to indicate the true cause of electricity.
   shall reserve for the end of my labours on electricity the exa-

t  Acad.  Par.  1788, p. 611.  t 3rd memoir, Acad. Par. 1785, p. 612
   Acad.  Par.  1780--1788.    § Acad. Par. 1788, p. 673.
J
6 FirrH report-- 1835.

mitiation of the principal systems to which electric phenomena
have given birth."
   Coulomb died in                     1806, I believe without fulfilling                                   the inten
Ition he here expresses. But we may allowably conjecture,
think, that the tenderness with which he here speaks of the
theory of one fluid was not so much the expression of his own
conviction as the effect of a wish not to shock the predominant
persuasion on this subject, which from the time of Franklin had
been in favour of one fluid only. We can hardly suppose Cou
lomb to have allowed this theory of one fluid more than a very
minute comparative probability, not worth reckoning, when we
recollect that he had so strongly pointed at the absurdity of the
hypothesis which that theory necessarily involves, of the mutual
repulsion of all the particles of matter.
Ever since the time of Newton, it has been customary for per

sons, attempting                       thoisp"roRnuoulencoef  judgement upon                            "a  philosophical
theory, to refer to                                           Philosophizing,"                              Causas rerum

naturalium non plures admitti debere quam quae et verse sint,
et earum phaenomenis explicandis sufficiant." So far as the
question of one or two fluids is concerned, it is to be recollected
that we must at any rate have two causes, attraction and repul
sion ; and that, in fact, to attribute these forces to the fluids

alone is to take fewer kinds of causation than to attribute them
both to the particles of the fluids and of the body. Also in such
eosftitmheat"ionvseramcuacuhsast"r.essThhaesreusius atllhyisbeveenrylaimd autpeorinal                       the condition
                                                                                                              difficulty in
the application of that part of the rule, that it supposes us al
                                       uinntrpuoes.sessIifonweorfetahlely                  means of     distinguishing true
ready to be                                                                                had such  a   criterion, by much
causes from

the most important Rule of Philosophizing would be one in

which the criterion should be stated. But if by a vera causa
we mean (as it would seem men usually do mean) a cause al

ready supposed to be known by mechanical effects ; although the
rule so understood appears to be very arbitrary, we may apply it
to the theory of electricity. The existence of some electric fluid
(whether one or two) as a true cause of the phenomena may, on
this view, be                          fhsrepolamdrkt,toh--ebetfhipersrotsvo;e--udndbb;yy   the facts which suggested such
                                                                                           the accompaniments of the dis
ceahffcaeorcgntesc,e, --p--titothhnee                                                       and especially the mechanical
                                       shock, the power of striking, breaking and penetra
ting material objects. And thus the belief of one electric fluid at
least is forced upon us as a physical truth, while the theory of
two fluids rather than one is established by its being proved to
involve, in reality, the simplest system of assumptions under
which the phenomena can be explained.
      REPORT ON ELECTRICITY, MAGNETISM, AND HEAT. 7

The Coulombian theory of electricity had thus a fair claim to
be considered as satisfactorily proved ; and it was further con
firmed, or countenanced at least, by the simultaneous and simi
lar establishment of a parallel theory of magnetism. Yet this
theory of electricity made its way but slowly to general acquain
tance and acceptation. Here, as in physical astronomy, the
length and complication of the mathematical calculations which
the estimation of the theory presupposed, put it out of the reach
of students in general ; and the mathematical reasoning was not
here, as in physical astronomy, invested with a kind of dignity
by the grandeur of the cosmical views on which it bore.
The ^Epinian theory was hardly known in England, except
by name, till the late
derable length, in the
      it,               Prof.    REobleisocntrigcaivteya             view   of at consi
                                                                            it,articlein theEncyclopedia

                                                                                                                                           ;
Britannica. In an appendix to this article the memoirs of
Coulomb inserted in the Acad. Par. for 1786 and 1787 are re
ferred to, but without any notice of the question of one or two
fluids. The Traite'de Physique of Haiiy, published in 1803, and
that of Biot in 1816, made the theory more generally known but
the latter date was subsequent to M. Poisson's important labours
       of which we must now give some account.
upon
By using the methods invented by preceding analysts, in
order to determine the figure of the planets, in the doctrine of
universal gravitation, M. Poisson was enabled to solve ex
actly those problems respecting the distribution of the electric
fluid on the surface of spheres which Coulomb, as we have seen,
had been obliged to attack indirectly. The most material of
the analytical improvements of which M. Poisson availed him
self was the use of certain functions, possessing very curious
properties, which have by recent writers sometimes been termed
Laplace's Coefficients. These functions                             play so important
part in all the sciences which have here to                         review, that will be
a                                                                           it
                      a
                                                                               a
                             I                                                          a
proper to give some account of them.
inssStpauhnpecpreeo,sseythmemtphertionrticusabtlerlyaratunmwt itphoafrrvetagoraifardbthleetotthetihrcerkensaetxsrisisa, l--dsispththrueibsr,ouitdtea,dk--eu,pafonondr
letitbe proposed to find the attraction of this stratum upon point
anyhow situated, the position of the point being given by means
.of its angular distance from the north pole of the sphere, and
its linear distance from the centre. The attraction on this point
will then depend upon the position of the point, and upon the law
of thickness of the stratum, by certain complex integrations. But
this attraction may be resolved into series of terms, each of
       is
           a

                                                                 a
which  particular solution of the problem. Each of these

terms contains two factors, one depending on the position of the
8 FIFTH REPORT 1835.

attracted point only, and the other on the corresponding thick
ness only ; and this resolution, and the peculiar properties of
these factors, it is which so much facilitate the treatment of

attractions. These functions were introduced by Legendre, so
far as regards their use for figures of revolution, and are thus
employed in the Savans Etrangers, torn, x.· and in the M&n.

Acad. Par. for 1784, read July 7, 1784, published 1787. In the
M4m. Acad. Par. for 1782, published 1785, is a memoir by
Laplace, in which the use of analogous functions is extended to

Ifigures not of revolution ; and in consequence of this step, and of

Laplace's frequent use of these functions, they have, as have

said, sometimes been designated by his name. So far, however, as
they have been applied to the calculations of electrical theory by

M. Poisson, those only have been used which apply to figures of
revolution, which, as we have seen, are rather Legendre's func

tions than Laplace's. Mr. Ivory, in the Philosophical Transac
tions for 1812, treated their properties in a manner which was at
once allowed by their French inventors to have given them a
clearness quite new. Mr. Murphy in a separate workf has
presented them and their application with great analytical ele
gance and simplicity. The most important parts of Poisson's
               of these functions to
application    part 2 of the article  tEheleccasterincoiwtyunindetrhenoEtnicceycmloay
be found in

paedia Metropolitana.

   By the use of these functions M. Poisson was enabled % to

reduce the distribution of electricity upon two spheres which act

on each other, to a certain functional equation. In the case
where the spheres are in contact, he solved this equation by
means of definite integrals, and thus obtained finite and exact
formulae for the density of the electricity at all the points of the
two spheres, and for its whole quantity in each sphere. He had
thus the means of much more rigorous comparison of Coulomb's
experiments with his theory than Coulomb himself had been

able to make.

   The result of this new comparison was a confirmation of the
inference from the old one ; and especially in those cases where
Coulomb's methods of calculation had been most inadequate,
as in the instance of two spheres in contact. The experimental
and theoretical numbers in fourteen such cases came very near
               the mean error being         .fa of
each other ;   positive and negative       errors   the quantities    them
                                                    be allowed to   balance
selves if the

· According to Legendre's own reference, which I have not been able to verify,
  t Elementary Principles of the Theories                   Heat, and Molecular
Actions: Part I. Cambridge 1833.           of Electricity,

J Mim. Inst. 1811.
       REPORT ON ELECTRICITY, MAGNETISM, AND HEAT.          9

each other, or less than .^ of the quantities taking the mean of
the absolute errors. Under the various chances of inaccuracy
-which belonged to the nature of the observations, this was as

near a coincidence as could be expected.

   M. Poisson's calculus also explained the electric spark which
passes when an electrised body is brought very near another
body ; for it appeared that the thickness or density of the elec
tric stratum on the nearest points of two spheres would approach
to infinity, and consequently the tension would become infinite,
as the spheres approach to contact. Before this contact, there
        a spark passes from one to the other;
fore,  will be recollected that the numerical coincidences  of obser

  It
vation and calculation are in addition to the explanation of elec
trical attraction and repulsion, and of all the general phenomena
of induction which the           supplies, or rather which force
                         theory  cannot be denied, then, that the
some such theory upon
                         us. It
Coulombian theory stands upon strong grounds so far as the
statical phenomena are concerned. Still, it is always desirable

that a philosophical theory should be confirmed and verified by
observations and measures added to those on which it was ori
                         it is
ginally founded   ; and         to be remembered that the calcula
tions of Poisson   have  been
                                confined to spherical conductors. A
true theory will commonly be upheld by a constant series of con

firmatory experiments, made by students or professional obser
vers, whether or not it          thought worth while to  publish the
results of such trials.  Iis    do not know that many    such mea

sures of the phenomena of statical electricity have been taken.
Among the most important of such measures are those made by

Mr. Snow Harris, which were exhibited before a section of the
British Association at Cambridge in 1833, and are described in
the Transactions of the Association for that year, p. 386. These
                                          detailed in  IaIp. app. e2r1p3r.inHteisd
experiments have since been more   fully  1834, Part
in the Philosophical Transactions   for

invention of a mode of measuring the quantity of electricity by
what he calls a unit jar, is valuable as offering a new mode of
verifying, or at least testing, the general laws of electrical action;
and the considerable amount of the statical forces which were

brought into action in his experiments inspires more confidence,
at least at first sight, than the extremely minute quantities em
ployed by Coulomb. His forces were in many cases measured
directly in grains. The detailed comparison of the results with
experience would be a matter of some labour, and indeed of some
difficulty ; for in some cases circumstances which would affect
the result are not stated, and the electric fluid was distributed
through conductors so complex in their form that it would not
10 FIFTH REPORT-- 1835.

be easy to trace by calculation the consequences of the theory.
IEven what might appear very simple problems, as the distribu

tion of the fluid on rectangular plates, have not, so far as am
aware, been solved mathematically, and therefore we cannot im
mediately compare Mr. Harris's experimental results in such
cases with the theory. But we may observe a general difference
in the mode of measuring the intensity of the action in these
experiments from those of Coulomb. In Coulomb's apparatus
the energy of the electric action was estimated by the mutual
force which is exerted between two insulated particles; in
Mr. Harris's researches the conducting body, whose intensity is to
be examined, and the other conductor which it attracts or repels,
are, one or both of them, uninsulated, or at least connected with
a large extraneous conducting surface. This arrangement would
make peculiar calculations requisite. In their more obvious re
sults, however, Mr. Harris's experiments confirm the Coulom-
bian theory : thus, it is shown* that the force of electrical at
traction is inversely as the square of the distance. Also the rule
which Mr. Harris obtained, and which appears to have surprised
him, that the intensity of the force measured in his way is as
                            of electricity, is a consequence of the
the square of the quantity
effect of induction on the  uninsulated conductor. It might be

well worth while for some new Poisson to examine the rest of
Mr. Harris's results in their bearing upon the Coulombian the
ory ; although, as has been said, there would be considerable
                                the course of such a comparison.
Ifmathematical difficulties in  pass to the consideration of Magne

   Magnetism. -- we now

tism, we have, to a considerable extent, to repeat the same story
which we have had to tell respecting Electricity. The attrac
tions and repulsions of magnets, their polarity, the transient
magnetism of soft iron, led to the assumption of magnetic fluids,
one, acting in excess or defect, or two, an austral and a boreal,
moveable in soft iron, but fixed in hard steel ; and thus, as in
the case of electricity, the facts of attraction, repulsion, induced

magnetism, could be pretty completely represented. ^Epinus
worked out mathematically the consequences of the assumption
of one fluid, in the same work in which he performed the same
part for electricityt . Coulomb reformed this theory, having
in the first place]: established that the force of the particles of
the fluid is inversely as the square of the distance ; a law which
Lambert and Mayer§ had already discovered, and which was
subsequently confirmed by Barlow and Hansteen.

· Phil.Trans. 1834. Part II. p. 238.
t Tentanun Theories Electricttatis et Afagitetltmi. 1759.
X Acad. Par. 1784.                    $ Biogr. Univ., art. Coulomb.
REPORT ON ELECTRICITY, MAGNETISM, AND HEAT.                       11

Coulomb reformed the /Epinian theory of magnetism, as he
reformed that of electricity, by adopting the supposition of two
fluids instead of one; and for the same reason, namely, that
two south poles and two north poles alike repel each other;

which could not take place if either austral or boreal magnetism
were a mere negation, without supposing a mutual repulsion
common to all magnetic matter. But there was another more
peculiar hypothesis which he found it necessary to introduce in
addition to those of zEpinus. Several conductors placed in con
tact, end to end, make one conductor ; but several pieces of iron

Ifso placed do not make one magnet ; each piece has its own poles.

    we cut a magnet in pieces, each piece has polarity. These

facts forbade the supposition that the fluids which give magnetic
polarity are transferred from one part of the iron to another ;
yet these fluids must be separated to produce the phaenomena.
Coulomb reconciles these conditions by supposing that the mag
netic body consists of small particles ; and that the fluids are
separated in each such particle, but never pass out of it. He
shows that in this way a line of particles would have a sensible
magnetism at each point, arising from the excess of one mag
netism at such point over the opposite magnetism ; and he proves
that* "on this hypothesis the calculation of the magnetic actions,
or of the intensity of the magnetic forces of each point, must
give us precisely the same result as that of the transport of the
magnetic fluid from one extremity of a needle to another."
His calculations for the confirmation of this theory of mag
netism arc therefore the same as those which had been requisite
for the theory of electricity. He found such a conformity be

tween the fundamental experiments and the calculation, as gave,
in his opinion, great weight to the systemf. Thus he ascertained
by experiment, that in two similar saturated needles of the same
substance, the moments of the force of terrestrial magnetism
were as the cubes of the homologous dimensions, which agrees
with the theory. He also found by experiment that the magnetic

intensity at different points in a long needle was nearly as the

distance from the centre ; and by conceiving the needle as a cy
linder divided into portions, and calculating the mutual action
of these   portions J, he approximately  thavter§ifie"dbyththise  as the theo
retic law                                                         help of cer
           : and he asserts generally,
tain corrections, it is easy to make the theory square with mag
netic phaenomena."
Probably few persons who have studied the subject since that
time have been disposed to deny that this theory gives the laws

           · .dead. Par. 1789, p. 492.   it Ibid., p. 487.
           t Ibid., p. 485.
                                             Ibid., p. 492.
12 FIFTH REPORT -- 1835.

of the phenomena, although there did not exist till lately so
correct and pertinent a collection of measures in support of the
magnetic as of the electric theory. Indeed, the peculiar fea
ture in the case of magnetism, that the fluid cannot be trans
ferred from one body to another, prevented measures of the same
kind, or of the same accuracy, being employed. And the same
circumstance affected the theory more directly, in that it left the
theorist without any steady conviction of the real existence of
the fluids which were the subject of his calculations. There was

no magnetic discharge analogous to the electric discharge ; and
thus the magnetic fluid was a hypothesis resting for its evidence
only upon the one class of facts for which it accounted. More
recently, indeed, we have had the magnetic fluid proved to be real,
and connected with the electric fluid by most curious and un
foreseen relations, but of these it is not our business now to
speak. The Coulombian theory of magnetism is still an impor
tant portion of science, as claiming to give the laws of the sta
tical phenomena: in what manner these laws residt from the
best views we can obtain of the cause of the facts is a matter

for subsequent consideration.
The next important event in the history of the theory was a
series of good observations, made at first with no reference to
the theory. In the year 1819 Mr. Barlow undertook a course
of magnetic experiments with a view to enable himself to cor
rect the local attraction exerted by the iron which ships contain

"upon the compass. In the course of these researches he dis
"covered," as he says*, certain magnetic laws which seemed to
him likely to pave the way to a mathematical theory of magne

tism ;" a mode of expression which seems to show that Cou
lomb's theory had obtained little currency. Mr. Barlow's ex
periments were made at first by measuring the deviation pro
duced in a compass needle by an iron sphere. The result was,
that, for such a sphere, there exists     plane   of no attraction
coincident with the magnetic equator   a
                                       ;  and if   we measure the
magnetic latitude of the compass from this plane, and the mag
netic longitude from the east and west points, the tangent of the
deviation produced by the attraction of the sphere is as the sine
of the double latitude, and as the cosine of the longitude : it is
also as the cube of the diameter of the sphere directly, and as the
cube of the distance of the compass from the centre inversely.
   These rules were discovered empirically, and published in
1820; and shortly afterwards Mr. C. Bonnycastle undertook to
deduce these laws from a theory analogous to Coulomb's the-

· Magnetic Attractions, Preface, p. 1.
       REPORT ON ELECTRICITY, MAGNETISM, AND HEAT. 13

ory of electricity, treated as M. Poisson had treated it in 1811.
Mr. Bonnycastle found that all Mr. Barlow's results agreed with
such a theory.
But a peculiar circumstance in the experiments attracted Mr.
Barlow's notice, and made him imagine that the theory required
modification. He found that the attraction of a solid iron sphere
was the same as that of a hollow shell, even when the shell was

thin ; and he was led to believe that the magnetic power of iron
resides wholly in the surface. This result was confirmed, as to
the facts, by Capt. Kater*. Mr. Barlow considered this result
as inconsistent with the theory of Coulomb, in which the mag
netic fluids in every particle of the mass were supposed to be
dislodged by the action of a neighbouring magnet.

  IYet a little attention shows us that this is in fact a conse

quence of the Coulombian theory. have already (p. 11) quoted
the passage in Coulomb's memoir on magnetism in which he as
serts that the distribution of the sensible magnetism will be the
same as if the fluids were transferrible from one part of the body
to the other. Now it is easily shown that on this supposition all
the sensible magnetism is repelled to the surface, as all the sen
sible electricity is, according to the parallel theory of electricity,

and as Coulomb had shown that it is in fact. It is true, that
though the superficial disposition of magnetism followed from

Ithe theory, and was involved in the general proposition above

quoted, do not know that Coulomb anywhere expressly asserts
the fact respecting magnetic bodies, or that he made any expe
riments to confirm it. Yet it may be observed, that in his se
cond memoir on electricity and magnetism + he proved that in
a long needle the magnetic force may be conceived to be col
lected very near each end, which is an indication of the same
kind   of effect of the theoretical properties of magnetism.
       was probably the experimental labours of the English   phi
   It
losophers which led M. Poisson to perform the same office for
     m; --agtonettircacwe htihceh  he had executed so well for the electric the
the                                consequences of Coulomb's hypotheses by
ory
the aid of powerful and general analytical methods. In Febru
ary 1824 a memoir of his upon this subject was read to the In
stitute, and published in 1826, in the memoirs for 1821 and
1822, according to the strange method of publication of the
French Academy. In this memoir he obtains expressions for
the attractions and repulsions of a body magnetised by influence
upon any point, and examines in particular the case in which
the body is a sphere. M. Poisson gives the name of magnetic

* See his memoir in the Phil. Trans. 1821.  t Acad. Par. 1785, p. 578.
    14 FIFTH REPORT 1835.

    elements to the small parts of bodies within which the magnetic

    fluids can be separated. Supposing these elements to be sphe
    rical, he would be enabled to determine the conditions of equi
    librium of the free magnetic fluid at the surface of each element,
    by the same analysis as in the case of electricity ; using, through
    out his researches, those peculiar functions which we have termed
                                   which introduce such
    Laplace's coefficients, and                           extraordinary
    facilities into researches of  this kind. It further  appears, from

    the nature of the equations (p. 283), that we need not know the
    form of these elements ; for the form of the elements, and the
    proportion of their sum to the whole mass of the body, enter into
    the result jointly, so that we do not trace the separate effect of

    these data.

       M. Poisson therefore (p. 290) takes the equation of equili

    brium on the supposition that the magnetic elements are sphe
    rical ; and he then finds (p. 306) that this equation coincides
    with the condition of equilibrium for electricity, on the supposi
    tion that the sum of the magnetic elements is equal to the mass
    of the body (t. e. in his notation, k = 1). And in general (p.
    303) , the magnetic action of a body of any form is equivalent to
    that of a thin stratum of magnetic fluid at the surface, although
    the fluids are separated in every part of the mass. In a subse
    quent part of his memoir, M. Poisson applies his conclusions to
    determine the distribution of magnetic fluid in a solid or hollow
    sphere acted upon by the terrestrial magnetism. He refers to

    Mr. Barlow's experiments, and to his inference that magnetism

    resides at the surface alone ; he observes that the inference is

    not warranted, and that the only conclusion which we are jus
    tified in drawing by the fact, as compared with the formulae, is
    that the sum of the magnetic elements is equal exactly, or very
    nearly, to the whole mass of the body.
    The force exerted by a body in which magnetism is induced,
    is a joint result of the distribution of the magnetism thus ex
    cited, and of the position of the point acted on. The verification
    of M. Poisson' s theory would require experiments made with
    masses of iron of various forms, as well as measures of the ef

    fect on a needle in various situations with reference to the mass ;

    and the theory, thus verified, would disclose to us the distribu
    tion of the magnetism at the surface of iron under given circum

    stances.
    The verification, with respect to the position of the point acted
    on, has been executed to a satisfactory extent. M. Poisson ob
    serves (p. 336) "that the laws of the deviation of compass needles
    are in accordance, whether we deduce them from theory, or from
    observation" as Mr. Barlow had done; "and thus that gentle

^v
      REPORT ON ELECTRICITY, MAGNETISM, AND HEAT. 15

man's numerous observations are a remarkable confirmation of

the theory of magnetism here presented." I do not think it

necessary to dwell upon the necessity of a correction for the
length of the needle, and its magnetic effect upon the iron sphere,
which M. Poisson conceives to be requisite in calculating Mr.
Barlow's experiments. But it may be observed, that M. Pois-
son's assumption that his quantity k (which expresses the ratio
of the sum of the magnetic elements of the body, to the sum of
all its parts,) cannot exceed unity, does not appear to be incon
testable, since it involves the supposition that the whole mag
netic attraction or repulsion of each such element is the same

as if its form were spherical, which supposition is introduced

p. 290 of the memoir.
    The same volume of the Memoirs of the Institute contains a

second memoir of M. Poisson on the same subject, read De
cember 27, 1824. In this the author observes, that though
Mr. Barlow's observations afford an important confirmation of
the theory, it was desirable that it should be subjected to trials
of a more varied kind. On returning to his formulae, he found
that they could be very simply solved for the case of any ellip
soid whatever. Now a very flat ellipsoid may approach inde
finitely near to an elliptical or circular plate ; a very slender
ellipsoid may approach indefinitely to a linear bar. Thus the
mathematical theory of certain very obvious and extensive cases
was attainable. We do not, however, possess any comparison of
 experiments with the formulae thus obtained ; and thus the ve
rification of M. Poisson's theory, so far as the distribution of
 magnetism depends on the form of the mass of iron, is hitherto
incomplete. M. Hansteen of Copenhagen, whose valuable work

 on terrestrial magnetism was published in German in 1819, had
 inferred from his own experiments, that in a linear magnet the
 magnetic intensity follows the law of the square of the distance
 from the middle point more nearly than any other power of that
 distance, a conclusion different from Coulomb's, as we have

seen  (p. 11)·.   however,  to have   been  taken for granted,  after the
      appears,
  It
verification of the theory by Mr. Barlow's experiments, that it

might be considered as established, and that mathematical me
thods of deduction might for the future be used, not to confirm
the truth of its principles, but to apply them to any requisite

purposes.          remarkable    and  important example of a  " Deductio
                  of this kind,  was  that which Mr. Barlow
adTPhreaxminos"t                                              made in the

                  · Hansteen, Magnet'umus, chap. v. p. 165.
16 FIFTH REPORT 1835.

case which had first given rise to his researches, the correction of
the deviations of ship-compasses produced by the "local attrac
tion"; and it was this case which suggested to M. Poisson some
of the problems of his second memoir. Mr. Barlow was soon
enabled to perceive, from his own experiments, that the guns and
other iron of a vessel produce the same effect as a small sphere
of iron in a certain position ; and his first idea was to place an
other iron ball on the opposite side of the compass, so as to coun
teract this effect. But when a ship moves into various positions,
she turns round a vertical axis, which does not coincide with the
axis of magnetic position. Therefore the relative magnetic si
tuation of the disturbing and the correcting masses would vary
with the changes of position of the vessel ; and the correcting
ball, in order to discharge its office, must be altered in place or
size when the vessel turned its head different ways, an inconve
nience which rendered this device almost nugatory.

    He then proposed to place the ball in a certain fixed position,
in which it would double the deviation arising from the local
attraction ; and finally, when he discovered that the attracting
power of iron resided in the surface, he substituted an iron
plate for the ball, and thus his apparatus and the mode of using
it became convenient and easily managed.

    The correcting plate so employed would produce the requisite

effect if the attraction of the iron in the ship could always be

referred to the same virtual centre. The attraction of a mass,
however irregular, is equivalent to a single force acting to a
single point or "focus of attraction". But this focus may be
different in different positions of the irregular mass; for the mag
netism which is developed by the earth's action in any mass
will depend upon the form and position of its surface ; and when
the position varies, the position of the resulting attraction with
respect to the mass may also vary. Hence, when a ship's com
pass is disturbed by the action of the irregular mass of iron which
the vessel contains, it may happen that the same plate or ball,
in the same relative situation, cannot either counteract or dou
ble the ship's attraction in all positions. Whether such ef
fects are possible or not must depend upon calculation. By

M. Poisson's investigations it appears that this possibility de

pends on certain conditions, and that it does not exist gene
rally*. But it may be observed that the effect of the attraction
of the vessel is greatest (and therefore the necessity of correction
greatest) when the dip is considerable, because then the hori
zontal directive force of terrestrial magnetism is small. Now

                                         · Mtmoire, 1822, p. 531.
REPORT ON ELECTRICITY, MAGNETISM, AND HEAT. 17

in such cases the disturbing masses, which assume their different
positions by being turned round a vertical axis, will be nearly
in the same magnetical attitude in all their changes, and there
fore their effect will not much be altered. Thus Mr. Barlow's
correction will be nearly complete in those cases in which it is
most important. Mr. Barlow informs me, that in the voyages
recently made towards the north pole, advantage was taken of
the near coincidence of the magnetic equator with the horizon ;
and the contrivance of a counteracting plate, which had pro
perly been rejected in other cases for the reasons just mentioned,
Iwas adopted with great success.

      do not consider it to belong to my present purpose to notice
those experimental inquiries concerning magnetism which have
not yet been brought into manifest connexion with the theory.
One of the most important branches of the subject, that which
has to do with Terrestrial Magnetism, has already been the sub
ject of a Report presented to the Association by Prof. Christie,
                                 and of a
and since  published*,           volume.   suI ppprleomceeendtartyherRefeopreorttobyanCotahpetr.
Sabine in  the present
of Htheeats.u--bjeTchtes
                          which are    included in my  present task.      of  Heat,
                          doctrine of  the Conduction  and Radiation

mathematically treated, is a subject which has excited con
siderable notice of late years ; and its history brings before us
Iseveral important questions of physics and mathematics.                      will
speak in order: 1st, of the Experimental Evidence of the Princi
ples of this doctrine ; 2ndly, of certain Difficulties which affect
the Fundamental Equations ; 3rdly, of the Mathematical Pro
cesses by which these equations have been treated ; and 4thly, of
the Application of the Mathematical results to several subjects
of speculation.

    I. Experimental Thermotical Principles. -- The first step
                          wmoofardmke,a"tinhseamtyhsaetFicPoarulirniecprirp,ini"ac.itpolee"sxhIttiobwitc,aosonrdinuactttlehedeasdtaenstdo
in the application
radiated heat was

tiny of that great
indicate, the causes of the principal phaenomenaof the universe."
Newton assumed, as a simple rule evidently agreeable to facts,
that the rate at which a body parts with its heat is proportional
to the excess of                 ;ofantedmopnertahtuisreass.sumIpttiiosn
rification of his         heat                                              he rested the ve
                          scale                                           an easy deduction
from this law, that if .times of cooling be taken in arithmetical
progression, the heat will decrease in geometrical progression.
Kraft, and after him Richman, tried to verify this law by direct
experiments on the cooling of vessels of warm water; and from

1835.                     · Report of Third Meeting, p. 105.
                                                 c
18 FIFTH REPORT 1835.

these experiments, which have since been repeated by others,
it appears, that for differences of temperature which do not ex

ceed 50° centigrade, this geometrical progression represents the
process of cooling with tolerable accuracy ; not, however, with
complete exactness, for it is found that at higher temperatures
the cooling really takes place faster than the rate this law would

assign.
The processes of the communication of heat to a surrounding

medium, and to bodies in contact, have obviously much in com
mon ; and it was assumed that the rate of conduction, as well as

the rate of cooling, are proportional to the excess of tempera

ture. Philosophers were naturally led to endeavour to explain
or illustrate this process by some physical notions. Lambert
in 1755* published an "Essay on the Force of Heat," in which
he compares the communication of heat to the flow of a fluid
out of one vessel into another by excess of pressure, and mathe
matically deduces the laws of the process on this ground. But
the general facts of radiation, which soon after came into no
tice, modified this view, since it appeared that cold might be
radiated as well as heat.

   The doctrine of radiation was put in a simple and satisfactory
form by Pierre Prevost of Geneva, about 1790 ; in which form
it is often called the Theory of Exchanges ; its leading princi
ple being, that all bodies are perpetually exchanging their heat
with one another by radiation. The mathematical reasoning
upon the subject, of which we shall shortly have to speak, by
Fourier, Laplace, and others, proceeded upon the assumption
of the truth of Newton's law, that the rate of communication

of heat, both in conduction and radiation, varies as the excess

of heat. This is so far an approximation to the truth, that va
                       made with a view to verify
rious experiments,                                 the theory, gave
satisfactory results.     Thus Biotf, by heating    a long metallic
bar at one end, found that the heights of thermometers3 placed
at equal intervals along it, followed a decreasing geometrical
progression, as by mathematical reasoning from the theory it
appears they ought to do. And in 1808, when Fourier had de
duced from his formulae certain peculiar relations of temperature
when heat is propagated in an armil or ring, he made experi
ments which agreed with the calculation, and thus confirmed the
theory, at least approximately. The whole mathematical doc
trine of heat, as hitherto treated, has been founded on the truth

of the Newtonian law thus verified.

   Yet we now know that this law is not exactly true. At an

· Act. Helcet., torn.        Traiti de Physique, torn. iv. 671.
                       ii.
                            p.

                                             t

                                                                                                                p.
                       172.
        REPORT ON ELECTRICITY, MAGNETISM, AND HEAT. 19

early period it had been noticed, as we have said, that the rate
of cooling at high temperatures is faster than the theoretical

rule. In 1817 the rule was reformed by MM. Dulong and Pe
tit, whose investigations on this subject are an admirable exam

ple both of laborious experiment and of sagacious induction.
Without dwelling upon the steps of their process, we may ob
serve that they were led to this formula for the rate of cooling,

m a (a -- 1), where 9 is the temperature of the surrounding
space, and t the excess of temperature of the body. This formula
shows that the quickness of cooling for a constant excess of tem
perature is not constant, but increases in geometrical progres
sion when the temperature of the surrounding space increases in
arithmetical progression. From this rule, and from the theory

of exchanges which makes part of their reasoning, MM. Dulong
and Petit find that the quickness of cooling, so far as it depends

on the temperature of the hot body, increases as the terms of a

geometrical progression diminished by a constant number, when
the temperature of the hot body increases in arithmetical pro
gression. This explains the deviations previously observed, and

gives a complete rule, remarkable for its symmetrical character*.
This correction of Newton's law will materially affect the ma

thematical calculations belonging to the subject ; but probably
        features of the results will be the same
           M, Libri, an Italian mathematician,                                           as on the old
Ithe general                                                                               is the only

supposition.
person, so far as am aware, who has applied Dulong and Pe-
tit's law to calculations of this kind. With this law for his basis,
he has undertaken the problem of the armil, in a memoir read to
the Institute of France in 1825, and since published at Florencef.
The application of mathematics to the problem of the com
munication of heat, requires not only the fundamental law of
such communication to be given by experiment, but also certain
numerical quantities which are different for different substances,
and which express the specific power of conduction and of ra
diation for each substance. These quantities have been called
by Fourier conductibilitd or conducibi li te" exterieure et inte'rieure.
Such terms are obviously improper, except we could apply the
adjectives conductible or conducible to the substances, which it
would be a gross solecism to do ; but we may say of substances,
that they are more or less conducive, and we may therefore pro
        speak of their  eMxatethrieomr aatnicdailntFeorriomr ucloan.d--ucStiuvpitpyos.ing
perly   Fundamental                                                                        New-
    2.

   · The temperatures in MM. Dulong and                                Petit's formulas  are those* of the
air thermometer.

   t Mem. de Math, el de Phys., 1829.

                                                                   C2
20 FIFTH REPORT 1835.

ton's law to be true, and the conductivities of the substance in
question to be given, the determination of the progress of heat
ing and cooling will involve mathematical relations and calcula
tions, which, as we have seen, had begun to attract attention in
the middle of the last century. But it was not till the beginning
of this, that such problems were taken up with due generality,
and followed into special consequences*. In December 1807
a memoir of Fourier's was read at the Institute, which must be

considered as the commencement of a new mode of treating the
f;subject. This memoir was published in 1808 in the Bulletin
des Sciences of the Philomathic Society                                           and in it was given

the general partial differential equation between v, the tempera
ture at a point of any substance of which the coordinates are x,
"y, s, and t the time ; namely,
                                                                                  dz*J :
                   dt ° \dx* + dy*

this, with the equations which belong to the surface and expresa
the conditions of exterior conductivity, contains the solution of
the problem ; though it was only in a few cases, and by means
of refined analytical artifices, that the integrals of these equations
could be obtained.

   Problems concerning the motion of heat now drew the atten
tion of the mathematicians of France; and the solutions of which
Fourier was known to be in possession awoke the activity of
other mathematicians. In the Memoirs of the Institute for 1809
(published in 1810), it is proposed, as the prize-question for 1812

(p. 96), "To give the mathematical theory of the propagation of

heat, and to compare this theory with exact observations." Fou
rier's memoir was sent Sept. 28, 1811, and the prize was adjudged
to probably as had been expected on all hands, in the ensuing
January. This memoir, founded upon the one written in 807,
crowned in 1812, was not published till 1824, in the Memoirs
of the Institute for 1819 and 1820 another remarkable example
of the delay and ambiguity of date in French publications of this
kind. While Fourier's memoir thus remained in the archives
of the Institute, was consulted by Poisson and Cauchy; in
the Bulletin des Sciences for 820 was published an extract
a                                                                                         1

    it,

                      is

                          a it
                                                                               1
                                                                        ;
· "The form of the equation (the differential equation of the temperature of
bar which come to permanent state), and the form of the partial differen

tial equation, which obtains when the bar grows hotter or colder, were indicated
by M. Biot in 1801, in the extract of a memoir on the propagation of heat (Bi-
blioth.Brilann., t.xxvii.) M. Biot deduces his equation from Newton's principle,
applied to thin contiguous slices, integrates for the permanent condition, and ve
rifies the result by his own experiments and those of Rumford. (Poisson, Theo.
dela Chal, 1835, p. 1.)
torn.                 112.
t

              i.
                  p.
      REPORT ON ELECTKICITV, MAGNETISM, AND HEAT. 21

of a memoir of Fourier's on the Cooling of the Earth"; Fourier's
"Theorie de la Chaleur" appeared as a separate work with the

date 1822, not containing, however, his investigations on the cool
ing of the earth. Notices of various results of the labours of
Fourier and others appeared also from time to time in the An
nates de Chimie et de Physique.
   When Biot and Laplace turned their attention to this subject,
they conceived that they saw a difficulty in the reduction of the
question to a mathematical form, which difficulty Laplace thus

states in the Memoirs of the Institute for 1809 (1810): "The

quantities of heat received and communicated in an instant by
any elementary slice of a conducting solid, must be infinitely
small quantities, because the excess of temperature of each slice
over the next is infinitely small ; therefore the excess of the heat
received over the heat lost will be an infinitely small quantity of
the second order ; and therefore the accumulation in a finite

time will not be finite." "This difficulty," Laplace says at the
period of which we speak, "has not yet been solved. Mathe

maticians often get true equations from false suppositions ; they
have done so in this case in supposing heat communicated by
contact. Fourier's equations are right, but the true bases of them
are to be found in the doctrine of the action of molecules ad di-

stans."

Laplace's solution of this difficulty that we are to conceive;
each particle of body receiving its heat, not from the particle
                   a                           is,
immediately adjacent only, but from all the particles within itsis
reach, the law of action diminishing rapidly as the distance in
creases. And he connects with this observation series of re
marks on the various classes of phenomena which may thus bea
reduced to molecular action among which he mentions capil a

lary  attraction,  electric    and magnetic    phaenomena, the proper
ties  of elastic   bodies,    and finally the
                                               laws of heat. All these,
he says, ought to be treated as cases of systems of discrete mo
lecules, attracting and repelling each other at distance.
  That by consideringn uid or solid bodies as composed of distinct
particles, and by suitably assuming the forces which these parti
cles exert on each other, we may represent their mechanical con
dition, and trace its consequences, undoubtedly true. But
                              is                             is
                                                                    it
would be to go too far, to assert, on this account alone, that the
only true conception of the physical structure of bodies that
which represents them as so constituted. This would be to mis
take the use of the differential calculus for the evidence of a phy
sical truth. Whether a comparison of special results of the mo
lecular hypothesis with facts, will give any countenance as the
                              a

                                     it
real state of things, another and very curious question, which
22 FIFTH REPORT 1835.

we may hereafter consider. But we may venture to say, that
when Laplace, at the period of which we speak, asserted his own
reasoning to be the only real basis of Fourier's equations, he
took a partial view of the question. Fourier was not bound to
take Laplace's solutiou of the difficulty, in his mode of rea
soning, the difficulty did not occur, which was really the case.:
Fourier maintained that the quantity of heat transferred from
one slice to the next in unit of time was finite quantity, inif,
dependently of molecular reasoning. For, as he showed, the
quantity of heat transferred from one side of slice to the other,a
                                                             a
is  not only as the difference of temperatures of the two sides

directly, but as their distance inversely and when, in conse
quence of the evanescent thickness of the slice, one of those
quantities vanishes, the other does so too, and the flow of heat

remains expressed by finite quantity or, to take the matter
              if                                     is

                        a                                   ;
                          is
                                                             is ;
                                                                                  is

                                                                                        is
                                                                                                 a

                                                                                                           a
in another form, a bar of iron, one end of which kept con

stantly hot and the other cold, be supposed to have acquired
permanent state of temperature in all its parts, there                                                       flow
of heat from the hot to the cold end and the quantity which
passes through any section of the bar equal to the quantity
which in the same time radiated from the whole of the colder

surface beyond that section, and therefore finite. Fourier's
reasoning no more requires the introduction of molecular action,

than do the reasonings by which the common formulae of Hy
drostatics (formulae much resembling those of Fourier) are esta
blished in Mechanical Treatises.
    But there are other circumstances bearing upon this question
which well deserve to be considered. Fourier's reasonings ap
ply to radiated as well as to conducted heat and radiation
     :

                           is
                                  is is

                                                                               ;
                                                                                               ;

                                                                                  of
                                                                                   it
                                                                                                            ;
                                                                                              a is is
governed by peculiar laws, which may throw additional light on
that kind of molecular action. There are, in particular, two laws,
discovered by experiment, to which the theory must conform
              of these
itself. One   all bodies  founded on general and obvious experi
                          placed in an inclosed space assume, in
ence,-- that

the course of some time, the temperature of                       the inclosure                                the
other  --wathsateshtaebaltishedembitytesdpefrcoiaml
this                                                 experiments  by Leslie*.                                It
                                                     every point  of the surface
                                                                                                             of
hot body in all directions, and that the intensity of the heating
ray in any direction      as the sine of the angle which makes
with the surface.

    Fourier's theoretical explanation of these two laws must be
looked upon as happy and successful for he has shown that

the same suppositions are requisite to explain the former general
and simple fact, as to give the latter less obvious rule. The law

* Experimental Inquiry into the Nature and Propagation Heat, 1804.
REPORT ON ELECTRICITY, MAGNETISM, AND HEAT. 23

of the sines is requisite, in order that neighbouring bodies may
assume the same temperature. The first assertion of this con
nexion appears to have excited  some surprise in Paris, yet it is
                                announced as a curious result of
easily demonstrable *. It was
Fourier's investigations, that if the law of the sines did not
obtain in the radiation of heat from a surface, a particle would
not necessarily   --assthuamt eittshetetmempepreartautruerewoouf ldthedeinpcelnodsuureponin  which
it is contained:                                                                             its po

sition ; and within a shell of ice we should have at certain points
the temperature of boiling water and of melting iron, arising from
radiation alone. Perhaps this may become less apparently
strange by attention to the following reasoning. The equili
brium and identity of temperature, between an including shell
and an included body, cannot obtain upon the whole in every
case, except it obtain between each pair of parts, taken on the
surface of the body and of the shell respectively ; that is, any part
of the one surface, in its exchanges with any part of the other
surface, must give and receive the same quantity of heat. Now
the quantity exchanged, so far as it depends on the receiving
surface, will, by geometry, be proportional to the sine of the
obliquity of that surface ; and as each surface may, in the ex

change, be considered as receiving, the quantity transferred
must be proportional to the sines of the two obliquities, that is,
to that of the giving as well as the receiving surface.
But though the law of the sines is thus manifestly true, we
have still to ask what is the physical ground of it ? To this

question also Fourier offers a reply. It arises, he says, from
this : that the radiation takes place not from the surface alone
of the body, but also from particles situated within a certain
small depth of the surface. It is easy to see that on this sup
position a ray emitted obliquely from an internal particle will
be less intense than one sent forth from the same particle per
pendicular to the surface, because the former will be inter
cepted in a greater degree, having a greater length of path
within the body ; and Fourier shows that whatever be the law
of this intercepting power, the result will be, that the radiative
intensity is as the sine of the angle made by the ray with the

surface.                            ..

Thus Fourier's theory of molecular extra-radiation acquires,
to say the least of great consistency. But this cannot be
          I

                         a it,
considered, think, sufficient ground for the hypothesis main
tained by Laplace and by M.Poisson, that conduction also takes
place by intra-radiation, or that we must conceive bodies as
composed of distant particles radiating upon each other.

                     Ann. Chim. iv. 129, 1817.
                  ·             p.
24 FIFTH REPORT 1835.

But without further examining this point, or the general
Iquestion of the reality of the molecular hypothesis, which de

pends mainly on the same considerations, shall proceed to the
next division of the subject.
   3. Mathematical Solutions              of the Equations. --In the  same

memoirs of Fourier in which he gave the differential equations
for the motion of heat in various cases, he also gave the integrals
of these equations in some of the most important instances.
These solutions were obtained by means of very peculiar artifices
and have led to, or been connected with, some remarkable dis
quisitions on points of pure analysis. It does not belong to my
purpose to give any account of the labours of writers on heat
in this point of view ; but in order
notice some of the leading features       to   bring under           Ithweilrlebardieerf'lsy
                                          of  the inquiry,

refer to two of the problems, the motion of heat in a rectangular
plate, and in a solid sphere.
The first of the special problems treated by Fourier· is to find
the ultimate and permanent distribution of heat in a rectangular
lamina, of which one side is kept uniformly hot, the two adja
cent ones uniformly cold, and the fourth side is at an indefinite
distance. The equation belonging to this case is of a simple
and well-known formf; and                 it is easy to obtain a possible so
                                          sufficiently the general course of
lution of it J, which exhibits

the phenomena ; namely, that in proceeding along the lamina
from the hot end, the temperature diminishes in geometrical

progression at equal distances ; but that in proceeding across

the lamina from the middle to each cold side, the temperature
diminishes according to the law of a cosine. This possible case
is, however, merely a particular solution ; and in order to make
the solution complete, we must be able to extend it so that the
temperature of the boundaries of the lamina shall be regulated
by any prescribed law ; for example, so that at the hot end it
shall be uniform from one side to the other, instead of dimi

nishing from the middle each way, as it would in the case just
stated. And this consideration introduces us to a very remark
able province of analysis ; for it is easy, by adding together any
number of such particular solutions as we have mentioned, to
produce a function which gives a more general solution § ; but
in order to satisfy the condition just stated, this function must

· Theorie de la Chaleur.

f  --dd~xtv,'  +  d'v     =  :  0  where  x is parallel to the cold  sides, y to the hot one.

                  -=--,,
                  dy*

J t>= i -- m* cos m y.
§ r = at~ ""cos my + a' ·""'* cos m' y + a" t ~m"' cosm"y +,&c.
    REPORT ON ELECTRICITY, MAGNETISM, AND HEAT. 25

be discontinuous, and we are thus led to                    that curious and          pIteris
plexing part of analysis which treats of                    such functions.

the less necessary for me to dwell on this train of investigation,
in as much as it has been fully treated of by Mr. Peacock in
Ihis Report on the Progress of Analysis, read last year*.                             will
fonly observe, that the general solution is in this case expressed
Iby an inftnite series of such terms as have mentioned, the series
having such coefficients that, at the extremity of the bar, the
function represented by it is discontinuous.
In the case of the lamina just spoken of, we have two dimen
sions of space to consider (length and breadth, the thickness
being left out of view) ; but we have nothing to do with the time,
because we consider only the ultimate and permanent condition
of the body. Another of the problems treated by Fourier, that of
the distribution of heat in a sphere, is simplified in a different
way. By supposing the heat to be uniformly distributed about
the centre, the temperature at any point depends only upon the
distance from the centre and the time ; and the differential

equation which expresses this dependence may be obtained \.
But in this case we have necessarily a second differential equa
tion §, which expresses the conditions of radiation at the surface,
as the first expresses the conditions of conduction in the interior.

In this case also we can easily assign a particular solution || ;
or a possible distribution of the heat and a possible relation of
the conductive and radiative powers, which shall cause the
cooling of the sphere to follow a certain law with respect to the
times; namely, that the temperature shall diminish in geome
trical progression for equal increments of time. The extending
this particular into a general solution consists, in this as in the
former case, in adding together a number of simple terms of
this kind, and in so determining them that they shall agree with
the given relation of conductive and radiative powers of the
globe %, and also that the original distribution of heat shall be

· Report of Third Meeting, p. 251, et seq.

f   --  =  t~      cosy --  ,-t     cos 3 y + -«            cos by -- &c. -- Thiorie  dt la
     4                      3                            o

_Chaleur, p. 190./d*v ,       dv\
*+  dv     ,              2^  dx/'
                 \3xT~*'
    Tl~                   x

--§ a-; x |- h v = 0 when x = X, X being the whole radius.

                            ·*»«*

- )H a X =r ( 1 -- X tan n X, which determines n.                                     ·,,.·
26 FIFTH REPORT 1835.

such as is given. The latter condition may again carry us among
discontinuous functions. But the solution enables us to see
that each concentric spherical shell of which the globe is com
posed will diminish in temperature in a geometrical progression
with respect to the time, as above stated. Also it appears that
after the lapse of a considerable time of undisturbed cooling, the
distribution of temperature in the sphere decreases in proceeding
from the centre to the surface, as the quotient of the sine of an
arc divided by the arc, the lengths of the arcs being the distances
from the centre, and the radius, to which such lengths are made

arcs, depending on the conductive and radiative powers.
    Besides these solutions of problems respecting the distribution
of heat, Fourier has given solutions in other forms, involving
definite integrals. By means of such integrals, discontinuous
functions may be expressed ; and the functions, of which these
definite integrals are taken, involve the given function repre
senting the original distribution of the heat. For instance, the
problem of the propagation of heat in an infinite line is ex
pressed by an integral of this kind, given by Laplace as the solu
tion of an equation of partial differences*.
By such analytical artifices Fourier solved a number of the
                                to this subject ;
problems   hbeesloanygs,in"g a  fin de multiplier                purposely varying his me
thods, as                                                        les moyens de solution dans

une matiere aussi nouvellef." Thus, besides the cases already
mentioned, of a rectangular solid and a solid sphere, he treats of
an "armille," or ring, the properties of which are somewhat cu
                                                                 Ja. lsoAofsuaccseoeliddincgylipnadrtero, f  of a
rious in reference to this subject ;                                                                          the
rectangular prism, and of a cube
work contains the laws of the propagation of heat in an infinite
solid. This case is of importance, in as much as the conclusions
are applied to the propagation of heat in the mass of the earth ;
which,                                                                    satsatoefdi.n--finWitheednimeanny
sions.  for such        purposes, may be considered
          These,        conclusions deserve to be

part of a solid mass is affected by alternations of greater or less
temperature, (as the surface of the earth is affected by diurnal
and annual alternations,) the following are the results.
1st. The range of the oscillations of temperature becomes
smaller as we recede from their origin, and at last they become

..=/J qe * $ (x + 2q ./**), the solution of--dt = * d--sr.
                        la Chaleur,
Jt  "ThMeo. rLieamdee,   professeur   p. 452.                    a 1'EcoIe Polytechnique, ltas determined
                                     de physique
the law of temperature of all the points of a homogenous elllpsoid brought to a
ptieornms.a''n--ent1'oicsosnodni,tioTnh.eorieThede               of this  law depends
                                                    expression    p. 4.                on elliptical func
                                                    la Chaleur,
REPORT ON ELECTRICITY, MAGNETISM, AND HEAT. 27

insensible. (Thus the diurnal and annual oscillations of tem
perature become insensible at a certain depth below the surface

of the earth.)
    2nd. The oscillations of longest period are sensible to the
furthest distance. (Thus the annual alternations are felt at a
greater depth than the diurnal.)
   3rd. The diminution of the range of the oscillations is less
rapid as the conducting power of the substance is greater.
4th. The maximum temperature occurs at different epochs at
different distances from the origin. (Thus the maximum of
annual temperature is later as we go deeper.)
The skill and resource shown by Fourier in this investigation,
and the interesting and instructive nature of the results, make
the series of his labours one of the most important portions of
the physico-mathematical researches of the present century.

His memoirs, as we have said, remained unpublished, except
in extracts, till 1824 ; but they were consulted in the archives
of the Institute by MM. Poisson and Cauchy. The former
analyst turned his own eminent talents to this subject, and
two memoirs of his upon it were read to the Institute, one
in May 1815, and one in December 1821 ; and though not

immediately published, were made known by abridgements and

extracts in the Bulletin des Sciences (May 1815), Annates de
Chimie* (1821), and Journal de l'Ecole Polytechnique\ (July
1823). In the actual results of the calculation there was no
difference between him and Fourier ; and he confirmed, for in

stance, the curious laws which we have just noticed of the pro
pagation of heat in an infinite solid J. One principal object of
M. Poisson appears to have been to establish the fundamental
equations by reasonings founded on his own views of molecular

action. In these he agreed with Laplace, whose objections to
Fourier's reasoning we have already endeavoured to appreciate

rightly. M. Poisson, indeed, carries much further than Laplace
himself the Laplacian views of molecular action ; and has at
tempted to show the entire insufficiency of Laplace's theory of
capillary action, because it does not consider the variation of
density which must take place near the surface of a fluid, when
it is considered as a collection of discrete particles affecting each
other by their mutual attractions.  But when it is recollected
that M. Poisson obtains for the capillary attraction of a fluid
mass the same expression which Laplace obtains ; the same
constant quantities, borrowed from observation, being involved
according to each method, and the difference consisting only in

· Ann.Chim., 19(1821), p. 337.                      X Ibid., p. 75.

f Journal de l'Ecole Polytechnlque, cah. 19, p. 1.
28 FIFTH REPORT -- 1S35.

the form of the definite integrals which these constant quantities
represent* ; we cannot but consider the assertion of the physical
falsity of Laplace's view as somewhat arbitrary. Another ob
ject of M. Poisson's memoirs on the distribution of heat was to
remove some of the mathematical difficulties from which, as he
says, Fourier's analysis does not appear to him exempt. These
occur in the expression of discontinuous functions, the roots of
exponential equations, and similar matters : but such objects do
                                                    in the                        here to
not here   fIorsmhalal  principal       point       themf.  survey    we  have
take, and               not dwell       upon
In the investigations of Fourier and Poisson the functions
which we have already spoken of under the name of Laplace's
coefficients were not employed. But Laplace himself published
in 1820 a memoir on the Cooling of the Earth in which they
were made use of J. Laplace's more general solution includes
that of Fourier, who had supposed the temperature to be a func
tion of the distance from the centre only. His conclusions as
to the laws of cooling of a sphere agree vvith those of Fourier's
memoir on the secular cooling of the earth, of                        which an
appeared in the Bulletin des Sciences for 1820                         (p. 58.).  exItrwaciltl
here briefly mention the general consequences which Fourier
Ifdraws from his solution.

    1st. the globe of the earth had no primitive heat (chaleur
d'origine), the temperature when we descend below the crust
will be constant in each vertical line, and equal to the mean

Iftemperature.the heating which is produced by the solar rays have
2nd.
not reached its limit, the temperature will decrease in descend-

If3rd. the temperature increase in descending, there must be

som4teh.prIifmtihtieveprciemnittriavle  heat.  and  the  solar  heat  were  both  dissi
                                         heat

pated, the temperature of the globe would be that of the planetary

spaces.
   5th. There is a relation between the excess of the heat of the
surface over the heat of the exterior space, and the increase of
heat in descending below the surface. Thus an increase of 1
degree in 30 inches descent, supposes that the primitive heat is

sufficient to raise the temperature of the surface \ of a degree

above the exterior space, the globe being supposed to have the
conducting power of iron.
6th. The primitive heat being supposed to operate, the tem-

                · Poisson, Act. Capill., p. 15.
                t See Mr. Peacock's Report, pp. 257, 3.13.

                I Conn, dei Tetn* for 1823, p. 243.
REPORT ON ELECTRICITY, MAGNETISM, AND HEAT. 29

peratures in the interior of the globe are much greater than those
of the exterior space. The temperature increases in descend
ing, but the rate of increase becomes slower and slower as we

the centre.

I say anything of the comparison
Iapproach                         of these and the pre
    Before
ceding results with observed facts, will terminate the history
of the subject as a branch of mathematics, or rather as an ex
emplification of analytical artifices. It is in this point of view
mainly that we must consider Count Libri's investigations, read
to the Academy     of Sciences of Paris in 1825*.   He is the only
person, so far as                                  of his reasoning
                   I know, who has made the basis
Dulong and Petit's exact law, instead of Newton's inaccurate one.
He applies his analysis to the case of an armil, in which, as
we have already said, Fourier had obtained some curious conse
quences. We may doubt, however, whether he is justified in
reasoning from Fourier's experimental results, so as to modify
his own formulae,   (as he does in his memoir, p. 28.)
                    not to look with admiration at the consum
  It is impossible
Imate analytical skill with which the mathematicians whose

names have had to mention have explored this subject. At

the same time we may be permitted to observe, that the direc
tion which the speculations of our mathematicians concerning
heat have thus taken, has not been in all respects favourable to
the progress of the subject as a branch of experimental and in .
ductive science. The great beauty and curiosity of many of
the mathematical investigations which offered themselves to
our analytical discoverers, have led them to wander in that
deep and charmed labyrinth much longer and further than the
demands of physical science required ; and this proceeding has
been attended with the additional consequence, that all the cul
tivators of science, except a very few, well equipped for the
mathematical race, have been left behind by the course of dis
covery, and have almost lost sight of their leaders. There can
be no doubt that this might have been otherwise;-- that the sub
ject might have been treated by means of mathematics of a sim
pler kind ; such, for instance, as Newton would have employed,
had his steps turned into this train of inquiry. This would in
all probability have been attended by some sacrifice of rigour
and of generality, and the highest analysis would always have
been requisite, in order to obtain the best solution, as we see in
the problem of vibrating cords, with which the problems of the
distribution of heat have many points of resemblance. But still
such solutions would have been just in all the material points ;
and, by showing to common students the nature of the operations

· Mim. tie Math, el dt Phys. Florence, 1829.
30 FIFTH REPORT -- 1835.

and relations in question, and the possibility of tracing them
mathematically, they would have brought a far wider circle of
intellect to bear upon the inquiry; and thus would have tended
much to the diffusion of sound knowledge, and, not improbably,
to the promotion of further discovery. Even now, any mathe
matician who would present the subject to students in such a
generally accessible form, would probably find himself rewarded
both by the simplicity and elegance of the propositions to which
he would be led, and by the utility which his labours would be

found to possess.
   4. The Application of the theory of heat to questions which
occur as important subjects of speculation in natural philoso
phy, is the last division of our task. We may notice as be
longing to this division three investigations : The effect of the
Solar Heat upon the Earth, and the laws of its Distribution ; the
effect of the Primitive Central Heat, and the evidence of its ex
istence ; the effect of the Proper Heat of the Planetary Spaces,
Iand the evidence that such heat exists.

   (a.) With regard to the first point, have already stated the
conclusions respecting  the  pIrohpaavgeantioown  of alternations of heat
and cold in a solid ;   and                       only to add, that several

observers have ascertained by experiment that the propagation
of the solar heat into the interior of the earth does follow the
rules which theory points out ; namely, that the range of oscil
lation of temperature becomes narrower and narrower as we
recede from the surface ; that the annual oscillations are sen

sible to a much greater depth than the diurnal ; and that the

maximum heat and maximum cold occur later below than at

the surface, and later and later the deeper we descend. These

rules, in the whole or in part, were traced by Ott at Zurich in

1762, by Saussure in 1785, by Hemmschneider at Strasburg
in 1821 and the two following years, but most completely by
Leslie in 1816 and 1817*. These observers and others have
found that at a certain depth, as 40, 50, or 60 feet, the tempe
rature ceases to show the effect of the changes of solar influence ;
            an invariable stratum:
we   have                            at smaller    depths   the rules
are  such  as have been stated. It  is, moreover,    to be  observed,

that the temperature of the invariable stratum is different in

different places ; and if we assume, as an approximation to the
actual condition of the earth, that the equator is kept at a con
stant high temperature, we shall have a constant flow of heat
in the interior of the sphere from the equatorial to the polar

   * Pouillet, Element de Metiorologie, torn. ii. p. 643 ; where Leslie's experi
ments, made in the grounds of Mr. Ferguson of Haiti), are erroneously attri
buted to that gentleman.
REPORT ON ELECTRICITY, MAGNETISM, AND HEAT. Si

regions. In the actual condition of the earth, acted on as it is

by the sun, we have alternations in the influx and efflux of heat,
but on the whole the same result as by the above theoretical
view; an influx in the equator parts, an efflux at the poles, a
circulation in the interior, and a diminution of the mean tem
perature in proceeding towards either pole*. The formulae
which represent the empirical laws of the dependence of the

mean temperature on the latitude, have been stated by Professor
Forbes in his Report on Meteorology (p. 215) ; namely, the old
one of Mayer, which made the temperature nearly proportional
Ito the square of the cosine of the latitude ; and other more exact
rules since proposed by Brewster and others.  am not aware

that any attempt has been made to bring these rides into ac
cordance or even comparison with Fourier's theoretical for
mulae. Such an accordance would be extremely interesting in
itsItbeiasrincgurioonusthetothoebotaryin. from the theory the actual amount of
the solar heat annually poured upon the earth. This is statedf
to be sufficient to melt a coat of ice 14 metres thick, encrusting
the whole globe of the earth.
(b.) The subject of Central Heat is of great interest to the geo
logist;  and, as we    have already seen, is illustrated by the
theory.
          It appears,  that if there be an increase of temperature
in descending, such a fact can result from nothing but a central
heat independent of existing influences. The discussion of the
evidence of this fact must be left to the geological speculator ;
but we may here mention some of the results of theory which
are fitted to make less formidable the idea of having a vast abyss
of incandescent   matter within the                   thin crust of
earth on which   man and his works   comparatively
                                      are supported.     It results

from Fourier's analysis %, that at 20,000 or 30,000 metres deep
the earth may be actually incandescent, and yet that the effect.
of this fervid mass upon the temperature at the surface may be
a scarcely perceptible fraction of a degree. The slowness with
which any heating or       cooling   Ifeffect would take place through a
solid crust is much        greater   than might be supposed.  the

earth below 12 leagues' depth were replaced by a globe of a tem
perature 500 times greater than that of boiling water, 200,000
years would be required to increase the temperature of the sur

face by 1 degree§. A much smaller depth would make the ef-

xj· Fourier's formula is u = cos.    e v cos' T dr, where cos. x is the sine and y
the cosine of the latitude, and the integral is taken from r = otor = s.. (Fou
rier, Mem. Inst., torn. v. p. 173.)
                                     t Bullet, des Sci. 1820, p. 58.
   t Pouillet, torn. ii. p. 704.
§ Mem. Inst. vii. p. 603.
32 FIFTH REPORT -- 1835.

feet on the superficial temperature insensible for 2000 years. It
is calculated, moreover, that, from the rate of increase of tem
perature in descending, the quantity of central heat which
escapes in a century through a square metre of the earth's sur
face would melt a column of ice having this metre for its base,
and three metres for its height*.
          The remaining subject,   the Heat of the Planetary
is  (c.)  on which the scientific  world has hardly yet had   Spaces,
    one                                                       time to

form a sage and stable opinion. Fourier has assertedf that,
without the effect of this heat, the diminution of temperature in

proceeding from the equator to the pole would be much greater
than it is found to be ; that the variations of distance of the sun

at different parts of the year would be felt in changes of tempe
rature ; that the alternate heat and cold of days and nights
would produce oscillations of temperature more violent than
those which occur. He infers that there exists a cause which

moderates the temperatures at the surface of the globe, and
which produces a fundamental temperature independent of the
sun and of the central heat. This cause he holds to be the heat
of the planetary spaces, and he ascribes this heat to the radiation
of the fixed stars in every part of the universe. Fourier was
          his reasoning to fix                      offretehzeingp.laneIttaryis
led by    at about 50 degrees    the temperature
spaces                          (centigrade) below
curious that Svanberg has been led by a wholly different line of
reasoning to nearly the same result as to the degree of tempe
rature of the void spaces of our system.
    Fourier says that his conclusion results from the mathema
tical examination of the question ; but the mathematical part of

Ihis reasoning on this subject has not, so far as am aware, been
Ipublished. Sir John Herschel has, believe, dissented from
the opinion that such an effect could result from the radiation of
the fixed stars ; but his memoir also is as yet unpublished.
    Thus there appears to be still some uncertainty on the sub
ject of what we may call cosmical heat. Indeed the extension
of our thermotical laws to cosmical cases appears to be at
tended with great difficulty. The laws of motion were first
6trictly proved by experiments made with bodies capable of ma

nipulation ; but they were immediately applied to the expla
nation of cosmical phenomena of which the laws had long been

ascertained by observation. It should be the aim of other sci
ences to make similar applications of their results. But in most
cases the difficulty of observation of phenomena at a distance
from us is very great. We can observe the effects of mecha
nical force in the remotest regions of the universe into which
          · Mini, fnst., torn. vii. p. 593.
                                                    t P. 580.
       REPORT ON ELECTRICITY, MAGNETISM, AND HEAT. 33

our telescopes can penetrate ; but how little can we learn about
the effects of heat or chemistry, of electricity and magnetism,
in any substances except those which we can handle ! In the
case of heat, we can hardly catch any indications of its amount
cither above or below a thin crust at the earth's surface to which

we are confined.
Yet in these cases theory is especially to be cultivated, be
       its calculations are
cause  into other parts of   the  soynsltyemin;s--trubmyewnthsichbywwe hciacnh   we   can
reach                        our                                                pass  the

bounds of space and time which at first sight appear allotted us.
Something has been done in this way: the magnetic changes
which the globe of the earth undergoes have long been studied,
and will now be studied still more ; the characters in which the

electricity of the upper regions of the atmosphere is written,

may, perhaps, soon be more clearly interpreted than they yet

have been ; and, with regard to heat, Fourier has shown, that if
we had ancient observations of the rate of increase of tempera
ture in descending, to compare with those recently made, we
should be able to infer the actual temperature of points at a di
stance below the surface, and the former temperature of the

surface.
All these prospects afford reasons both for further cultivating
the theories of these subjects and for making accurately those
observations which the theories point out as important elements
of calculation. In the course of this Report some tasks of both

Ikinds have been indicated as more peculiarly desirable ; and
will conclude by again
are such as follow: A   stating them as briefly as possible. They
                        comparison of good recent measures in
electrical experiments (those of Mr. Snow Harris and any
others) with the Coulombian theory; a determination of the
degree of exactness of compensation attained and attainable by
means of Mr. Barlow's correcting plate ; the measure of the
ijite of increase of temperature of the earth's mass in descend
ing (both in given places and on the average), to compare with
similar observations at a future period ; the comparison of the
observed law of temperatures, as depending on the latitude, with
Fourier's formula; and, finally, as a humble but most useful
step, the production of treatises in which the results of the
theories above spoken of, (Coulomb's theories of electricity and
magnetism, and Fourier's theory of heat,) shall be presented in
a manner sufficiently elementary to be accessible to mathema
ticians of common attainments, as, for instance, to the readers

of Newton.
   Note. --The statement made in p. 31, that an increase of

temperature in descending can result from nothing but a central

1835.                             D
34 FIFTH BEPORT-- 1835.

heat, is contested by M. Poisson in his Thtorie de la Chateur,
published since this Report was written. For M. Poisson's
view of this subject, see the   RtheepoLratnodf,  the                of the
Geological Section, (p. 489 of                    and  Proceedings   Mag.

                                                       Edinb. Phil.

for Dec. 1835.)

                                   INDEX.                            por/e I
                                                                               2
Introduction
Electricity                                                                      7
Laplace's Coefficients                                                       10
Magnetism
Heat                                                                       J7

        1. Experimental Principles                                           ib.
       2. Fundamental Analytical Equations                                   19
       3. Solution of the Equations                                          24
       4. Applications of the Solutions                                      30
                                                                             ib.
            a, Motion of Heat in the Earth
             b, Central Heat                                                  31
             c, Cosmical Heat                                                32
                                                                    ;r>

Aperçu de l'Etat actuel des Sciences Mathématiques chez les
                      Belges. Par A. Quktelet.

L'histoire intellectuelle d'un peuple se rattache par tant de

liens à son histoire politique, qu'on ne peut guères séparer l'une
de l'autre. Jusqu'à présent les écrivains qui se sont occupés de
l'histoire des sciences, se sont plus attachés à faire connaître les
résultats qu'elles ont produits, que les causes sous l'influence
desquelles elles se sont développées, et qui ont pu, à différentes
époques, en favoriser ou comprimer l'essor.

    Cependant la recherche des causes qui influent sur l'état des
lumières est éminemment philosophique, surtout lorsque cette
recherche se fait dans des vues spéciales, pour améliorer l'état
d'un peuple et lui imprimer une impulsion utile.

    On aurait également tort, quand on ne veut pas s'en tenir à
la surface des choses, de considérer dans l'histoire des sciences
une époque en dehors de tout ce qui l'a précédé. On pourrait
connaître ainsi l'état intellectuel de cette époque, mais on ne
saurait nullement s'il est le résultat d'un progrès ou d'une dé
croissance de lumières.

    C'est par ces motifs que voulant donner un aperçu de l'état
actuel des sciences mathématiques et physiques chez les Belges,

j'ai cru qu'il ne serait pas hors de propos de jeter un coup d'oeil

rapide sur ce que les sciences ont été antérieurement, et sur la
disposition des esprits à les étudier. On concevra mieux ensuite
ce que les savans peuvent encore attendre de ce côté.

    Lorsqu'une branche des connaissances humaines est accli
matée dans un pays, quand les masses en ont senti la salutaire
influence, et qu'on y trouve de l'honneur ou du profit à s'y di
stinguer, on ne doit plus désespérer de son avenir. Les hommes
éminens s'y développent spontanément, et y atteignent la plus
heureuse maturité, comme les fruits dans un terrain convenable
ment préparé.

    En général, les sciences et les lettres, de même que les beaux-
arts, s'établissent de préférence chez les peuples riches, et sous
l'influence de gouvernemens protecteurs. Elles ne pouvaient
donc manquer, dès la renaissance, de fleurir en Belgique de
l'éclat le plus brillant. La pompe fastueuse de la Cour de Bour
gogne, la magnificence de ses Ducs, et l'état prospère de la na
tion, furent également favorables au développement de toutes
les branches de l'intelligence humaine. La création récente de

                                                    d2
36 FIFTH REPORT -- 1835.

l'Université de Louvain fut, d'une autre part, un stimulant actif,
surtout pour la propagation des études solides ; aussi l'on vit
s'élever à côté des Froissart, des Commues, des Monstrelet,
des Chastelain, et des Molinet, ces historiens dont les écrits ont

donné tant de relief à la Maison de Bourgogne, les Despautère,
les Clenard, les Viglius, les Premacle de Florenne et tant d'autres

Ilécrivains dont les ouvrages servirent de base aux études solides.

    appartenait aussi à cette brillante époque de donner naissance
à la peinture à l'huile, et aux chefs-d'oeuvre des Van Eyck et des
Hemmelinck. La musique, dont l'art était à peu près perdu, se
J.ranima par les travaux de Guillaume Dufay, de Jean Okeghem,

de Teinturier et d'une foule d'artistes savans qui se répan
dirent par toute l'Europe, et qui ne sont pas encore oubliés

même dans les pays les plus renommés pour l'art musical. La
poësie ne fut pas négligée dans ce mouvement général ; et les
écrits de Van Maerlant surtout peuvent en servir de preuve. Les
sciences comptaient également des hommes distingues pour cette

époque; déjà même pendant le 13e et le 14e siècle, iEgidius de
Lessine, Henri Baten, Henri de Bruxelles, et Henri de Gand,

proclamé de son temps le Doctor Solemnis, se distinguaient

dans les sciences physiques.

Cette puissante impulsion donnée aux lettres, aux sciences et
aux beaux-arts par la Maison de Bourgogne, les avait en quelque
sorte acclimatés : le plus difficile était fait ; l'opinion publique
s'était déclarée en leur faveur, et chacun savait qu'il y avait
de l'avantage à s'y distinguer. Les hommes les plus éminens

avaient accès auprès de leurs princes, et plusieurs même étaient
reçus dans leur intimité. Pendant son règne éclatant, Charles
V., ce puissant rival d'un des princes qui ont le plus protégé
les lumières, continua l'ouvrage des Ducs ses prédécesseurs ;

les hommes les plus distingués de cette époque furent appelés
à sa cour ; et si plus tard, sous le règne de son fils, la main fa
tale du Duc d'Albe s'appesantit sur la malheureuse Belgique, la
crise ne se prolongea pas assez longtemps pour que le Gou
vernement protecteur d'Albert et d'Isabelle ne pût encore en
réparer les maux. Le seizième siècle ne fut donc point inférieur
à celui qui l'avait précédé ; mais comme la présence du prince
ne venait plus vivifier les sciences, et que l'action gouverne
mentale s'imprimait par des intermédiaires, la Belgique conti
nuait à produire des hommes distingués, mais à mesure qu'ils
se développaient, ils allaient porter leurs talens à l'étranger, soit
par le désir d'acquérir des biens et des honneurs, soit par le

vbeersnoeinmedn'étchdaepPpehrilipapuepoIIu.voLire  ombrageux et despotique    du gou
                                                    règne glorieux d'Albert  et d'Isa

belle, qui termina pour nous d'une manière si heureuse le seizième
      ON THE STATE OF MATHEMATICS IN BELGIUM.         37

siècle, ne put entièrement arrêter cette émigration, qui était pour
ainsi dire un besoin, et qui devint à peu près générale, quand le
traité de Munster, plus tard, ferma les bouches de l'Escaut, et
porta à la Belgique l'un des coups le plus rudes qu'elle ait ja

mais  éprouvés.  cette  époque, et surtout  après le fatal traité des
      partir de
  A

barrières, la prospérité du commerce déclina, et avec elle tout ce
qui distingue le plus un peuple. On vit successivement s'éteindre
le goût de la musique et de la poesie ; les sciences et les lettres
eurent leur tour; et la peinture même, dont l'avenir semblait le
plus assuré, la peinture qui doit à jamais immortaliser le nom
des provinces Flamandes, ne put échapper entièrement au mal
heur qui désola notre pays.
Pour faire apprécier le mal, il suffira de rapporter, d'après un
"de nos historiens, quelles furent les suites de ce fameux traité
des barrières (1715) : Il n'y a pas d'exagération à dire qu'il fut

avec l'article du traité de Munster sur la navigation de l'Escaut,
l'oeuvre qui consomma la ruine des Pays-Bas. Prise isolément,
cette convention n'avait pour objet que de poser un frein à l'am
bition de la France. Dans ce sens, elle était dans nos intérêts

comme dans ceux des Provinces Unies ; mais on doit la regarder
comme une dépendance du traité d' Utrecht, et sous ce point de
vue finances, commerce, industrie, liberté, indépendance, tout
ce que les hommes ont de plus cher y fut compromis : nos places
les plus importantes furent occupées par les troupes étrangères;
c'était avec nos fonds qu'on les soudoyait. Toutes les entraves
que des rivaux d'industrie peuvent imaginer furent imposées à

notre commerce, nos ports fermés aux vaisseaux étrangers, les
routes maritimes interdites à nos marins ; liés par des lois fis
cales étrangères, à la merci d'un système intérieur de douanes
ouvrage de nos adversaires, nous ne pouvions faire un pas dans
la route des innovations sans rencontrer des obstacles ; rendre

une loi salutaire, élever une institution bienfaisante ou une com

pagnie d'industrie, sans exciter les cris de nos voisins et nous
attirer les menaces de l'Europe entière*."
Au milieu de tant de désastres, les beaux-arts, les sciences et

les lettres perdirent successivement l'éclat dont ils avaient brillé :
qu'on ajoute à cela que les gouvernemens qui nous arrivaient de
l'étranger ne connaissaient ni nos goûts ni nos besoins, et s'in
quiétaient fort peu de la gloire nationale. Trop heureux encore

si les hommes qui se distinguaient parmi nous n'avaient pas à

souffrir des humiliations. On rapporte que l'un d'eux f, Lan-

   · Tome vii. des Mémoires Couronnét  de l'Académie  Royale de Bruxelles,
Mémoire de M. Steur, page 40.

  t Foppens, Bibl, Belgica, p. 891.
38 FIFTH REPORT 1835.

grenus, ou plutôt Van Langren, cosmographe instruit et dont le

nom est resté dans les sciences, ayant composé sa Sélénographie
vers 1674, en présenta les dessins à l'Archiduc Leopold, Gou
                                                                recompense, lui
verneur  ricdaensanPtay: s"-BJaes.vouCse   prince,  pour toute   des terres que
dit en                                    nomme     gouverneur
"Jevous avez découvertes dans la Lune." Le pauvre astronome
se contenta de lui répondre :             remercie Votre Altesse, si elle

veut bien me faire donner les provisions nécessaires pour le

voyage."

   Le dix-huitième siècle, qui suivit ces temps désastreux, ne

nous présente plus d'hommes marquans dans les sciences ; nous
n'avions plus le gouvernement Espagnol, ni son faste, ni les

richesses qu'il versait dans notre pays ; ce n'étaient plus ces

luttes, ces agitations qui donnent quelquefois du ressort aux

esprits.

   Le gouvernement Autrichien s'était, à son tour, chargé du
soin de notre avenir. Un sommeil profond, un sommeil sem

blable à celui de la mort, s'était répandu dans toutes nos pro
vinces. Ce n'est pas que le peuple, sous un rapport, fut essen
tiellement malheureux ; d'ailleurs comment aurait-il pu appré
cier le bien dont on l'avait deshérité ? il en était venu à cet état

où l'on ne peut plus, où l'on n'est plus stimulé par le désir
de la gloire, où l'on finit par oublier ses titrel les plus nobles,

uniquement occupé de satisfaire aux besoins matériels de la vie.
L'Université de Louvain, qui seule aurait pu ranimer les esprits
assoupis, partageait elle-même l'état d'engourdissement général ;
elle ne se tenait plus au courant des découvertes qui illustraient

le siècle, et jouissait des débris de son ancienne renommée. La

révolution que venaient de produire, dans l'analyse mathéma
tique, les travaux de Newton et de Leibnitz, parcourut l'Europe

entière, mais elle ne laissa point de traces en Belgique ; et sans
les ouvrages du Commandeur De Nieuport, on pouvait se de
mander, il y a bien peu de temps encore, si quelqu'un parmi
nous s'était occupé du calcul infinitésimal, depuis l'époque de
sa naissance. L'état d'abandon des sciences mathématiques de
vait nécessairement influer sur toutes les sciences qui en dé
pendent. De là, ce vide affreux dans nos annales, cette absence

complète d'observations de toute espèce, soit pour la météoro
logie de notre pays, soit pour le magnétisme terrestre, soit enfin
pour tout ce qui tient à la physique et à l'astronomie. Aussi,
qu'on ne nous demande pas ce qui s'est passé chez nous, pen

dant un siècle entier ; notre planète aurait pu échapper à son
orbite, que nous n'en aurions rien su, tant notre sommeil était

profond ! étrange état de marasme qui succéda à des siècles où

non seulement nos Belges marchaient, dans les sciences et les
        ON TUB STATE OF HATIIKMATICS IN BELGIUM.                      39

arts, les rivaux des autres peuples, mais où même ils étaient,
pour ainsi dire, en possession de leur donner des maîtres.
Une femme chercha à nous tirer de cet état de léthargie, et
elle s'est acquis à jamais des titres à notre reconnaissance.
Marie Thérèse, de glorieuse mémoire, fut secondée dans ses
desseins par le Comte de Cobentzl, son ministre plénipoten
tiaire au gouvernement des Pays-Bas. Ce ministre, qui était
éclairé et qui savait honorer les sciences, cherchait à faire re
naître l'ancienne splendeur dont elles avaient brillé en Belgique.
Il était choqué                         l"'UInl ivesetrshitoéntdeeuxL,o"udviasianit-riél,
                 de voir combien peu
pondait au but    de son institution :
" que nous ayons dans notre Université des gens si peu faits pour
maintenir le bon goût, et entièrement livrés à la barbarie pour
les sciences et à la rusticité pour les moeurs*." Pour remédier
à ce mal, il proposa à l'Impératrice la création d'une société
littéraire à Bruxelles, qui trois ans après, en 1772, fut érigée
Ilen Académie Royale et Impériale des Sciences et Belles Lettres.
    est remarquable que dans la classe des sciences les membres
les plus distingués furent presque tous des étrangers : tant un
siècle d'intervalle avait changé l'état des choses.
L'Académie, à sa création, se trouvait assez embarrassée pour
expliquer, sans blesser son auguste fondatrice, l'état de torpeur
dont elle cherchait à faire sortir le pays. C'est ce qu'on peut
voir par le discours d'introduction à ses mémoires, où, après
avoir
ajoute  fa: it"lL'éensumleétrtraetisonfurdeentlanpérgolsigpééersit,é   matérielle du pays, elle
                                                                      soit que l'attention de

guérir les plaies de l'état occupât seule le soin du Gouverne
ment, soit par d'autres causes qu'il serait inutile d'approfondir ;

elles demeuraient dans un état de langueur qui empirait de jour
en jour." Les preuves ne nous manqueraient pas pour montrer
combien le mal était devenu grand, et avait pénétré même dans
les corps les plus élevés. Dès sa naissance l'Académie avait
proposé des questions qui annonçaient des vues étendues et phi
losophiques. Elle avait appelé l'attention sur l'ancienne organi
sation politique du pays, quelques membres des Etats firent des

démarches pour empêcher que de semblables sujets fussent pub
liquement débattus ; l'Académie eut le courage de mépriser leurs

menaces, et le Gouvernement le bon esprit de ne pas les sanc
tionner f.

   Ce corps ne se montra pas indigne de sa mission : il publia,

pendant sa courte existence, cinq volumes de mémoires de ses

   · Voyez la notice biographique de ce savant par M. De Rcifteiiberg, dans
Y Annuaire de l'Académie, page 85.

   t M. De Kciffenberg, Ann. de l'Académie 1835, p. 86.
40 FIFTH HEPOUT -- 1835.

membres, et un grand nombre de mémoires couronnés sur dif
férentes branches des connaissances humaines. Néanmoins les
sciences physiques et mathématiques furent peu cultivées : pour
les sciences mathématiques, le Commandeur de Nieuport fut le
seul qui s'en occupa dans son sein, et l'on peut dire dans no»
provinces ; les sciences physiques furent représentées par des

savans étrangers, MM. .Pigott, l'Abbé Needham et l'Abbé

Mann, tous trois Anglais, mais qui s'étaient établis parmi nous.
Du reste, les choses étaient loin d'être organisées sur un pied
convenable ; il n'existait encore aucune ressource pour cultiver
les sciences d'observation ; l'Académie s'en plaignait ; et quand
elle fut invitée par la Société Palatine à prendre part au grand
 système d'observations météorologiques combinées qui s'orga
 nisait alors, elle exprima la crainte d'entreprendre ces observa
 tions, ou d'autres travaux de la même nature, pareequ'il lui man
quait des instrumens et un observatoire*. La Société Pala
tine lui envoya donc ce qui était nécessaire, et les observations
demandées furent faites avec régularité. 11 en fut de même,
quand M, Pigott, gentilhomme Anglais, se fixa parmi nous pour
coopérer à un grand travail désiré par le Gouvernement, et qui
consistait à rectifier la carte du pays ; non seulement il fut forcé
de faire venir des instrumens d'Angleterre, mais il fit ce travail
gratuitement et même à ses frais, comme le rapporte Lalande
dans le 5e volume de l'Histoire des Mathématiques de Mon-

tucla, p. 353.
    Cependant on remarquait des améliorations sensibles, quand

arriva la grand catastrophe qui termina le 19e siècle, et qui ar
racha la Belgique à l'Autriche pour la jeter dans les bras de la
France.

    L'Académie avait été supprimée et ses membres dispersés ;
l'ancienne Université de Louvain, dont l'agonie avait été si
longue, n'existait plus ; la plupart des ouvrages précieux de nos
bibliothèques, et les chefs-d'oeuvre de l'école Flamande avaient
été transportés à Paris, pour alimenter ce vaste foyer qui éclaire
le monde, et dont la France paie généreusement les frais. Dans
cet état de choses la Belgique s'effaça de nouveau. Cependant
les sciences avaient pris en France un essor trop élevé, elles
jetaient un éclat trop vif pour qu'il n'en rejaillit pas des étin
celles jusqu'au fond de nos départemens. Les écoles centrales
d'abord, et les lycées ensuite, répandirent parmi nos jeunes gens

* " Attamen haud silendum arbitramur, nos in proesenti rerum statu quo-
dammodo vereri, ut cuiuscunque generis observationes à nobis fieri possint;
dei-st cuim hucusque focus ad observandum aptus, speculatoria turris undè

rmeoqtuuissilasi.d"e--rumEjlhiinmveesrtÙigeasretSuor,c.   deast et multa supellex ad res  mcteorologicàs

                                                         Meteor. Palatin», ânn. 1781.
ON THE 8TATE OF MATHEMATICS IN BELGIUM.                   41

le goût des sciences exactes, qu'ils pouvaient aller cultiver dans
l'école la plus célèbre des temps modernes, et sous les yeux des
hommes les plus distingués de l'époque. On savait que les
sciences étaient honorées, que jamais leur puissance n'avait été
plus grande ; on savait que l'homme dont la gloire militaire re

tentissait alors par toute l'Europe prenait à coeur de répandre
sur elles un partie du prestige qui l'environnait, et qu'il avait
élevé les savans les plus illustres à la dignité de princes et de

premiers fonctionnaires de l'empire. Cette munificence, qui ho
norait bien plus celui qui en usait que les savans qui en étaient
l'objet, entretint cette source d'illustrations qui avait pris nais
sance au milieu de l'exaltation révolutionnaire.

Cependant la guerre qui parcourait successivement les dif-
férens pays de l'Europe, et les grands travaux qui s'exécutaient
dans l'intérieur de l'Empire, absorbaient trop nos jeunes Belges
sortis de l'Ecole Polytechnique pour leur permettre de se livrer

aux paisibles travaux du cabinet ; et quand, plus tard, la paix
les rendit à leur patrie, la plupart avaient perdu depuis trop

longtemps de vue les spéculations scientifiques pour pouvoir s'y

remettre encore avec succès.

Lorsque la France ouvrit son Institut, la Belgique n'y fut re

présentée que par deux de ses savans ; et pendant tout le temps
de sa réunion à la France, elle n'en eut point d'autres: c'étaient

le Commandeur De Nieuport et M. le Professeur Van Mons.
Le premier de ces savans, que la tourmente révolutionnaire avait
dépouillé de tous ses biens, cultivait avec fierté dans sa retraite

les sciences mathématiques, qui l'avaient autrefois mis en rap
port avec Condorcet et D'Alembert  ; et l'état d'isolement auquel
                                   pas d'exercer une grande in
il s'était condamné ne lui permit
fluence sur ses concitoyens. M. Van Mons, au contraire, doué
d'une activité incroyable, en possession de la plupart des langues
de l'Europe, et en relation avec les hommes les plus distingués
de l'époque, s'était rendu pour ainsi dire l'intermédiaire entre
le nord et le midi ; il transmettait à l'Angleterre et à l'Alle
magne les brillantes découvertes de Volta et de Lavoisier, dont
il défendait avec ardeur les théories nouvelles, tandis qu'il faisait
connaître en France les découvertes des savans du nord*.
Tel était l'état de la Belgique quand les événetnens de 1814

   * M. Van Mons publia aussi de concert avec MM. Bory de St. Vincent et
Drapiez en 1819, les Annales Générales des Sciences Physiques, dont le huitième
et dernier volume a paru en 1821. Cet intéressant recueil était surtout con
sacré aux sciences naturelles. Les mathématiques n'y étaient pas représentées ;
et à l'exception d'un mémoire sur les expériences de M. Nelis sur la perméa
bilité du verre au fluide électrique, on n'y trouve guères de documens pour
l'histoire de la physique dans nos provinces.
                 42 FIFTH RKPORT 1835.

                 la détachèrent encore de la France et lièrent ses destins à ceux
                 de sa rédoutable rivale, à l'héritière de tous les bénéfices du
                 traité de Munster et de celui des barrières qui avaient été pour
                 notre pays une source de calamités. Cependant l'union n'avait
                 pas lieu pour la Belgique, à titre de dépendance, mais bien
                 d'égalité ; de sorte que ses représentons se crurent en droit de
                 réclamer pour elle les mêmes avantages et les mêmes institu
                tions libérales dont les Provinces-Unies avaient continué à jouir
                   depuis l'époque de nos désastres. Ces provinces avaient con
                 servé ce même amour et ce même respect pour les sciences qui
                   s'étaient successivement éteints chez nous ; elles enrégistraient
                   les titres de leurs savans à côté de ceux de leurs hommes de
                   guerre, et elles les citaient avec orgueil aux étrangers ; c'étaient
                   là leurs titres de noblesse.

                     Cet amour des sciences dont la Hollande avait conservé les
                 traditions fut pour nous d'un immense avantage : nous nous
                 trouvâmes en droit de réclamer pour nos provinces les mêmes
                 bienfaits dont elle jouissait depuis longtemps ; et l'on doit
                   convenir, que le Gouvernement ne recula pas devant des de
                 mandes aussi légitimes. Peu de temps après la réunion des deux
                   pays, nous eûmes trois universités, comme les provinces du nord ;
                 l'Académie de Bruxelles fut rouverte aux sciences et aux lettres ;
                 on créa des musées, des jardins botaniques ; on augmenta les
                 bibliothèques, et l'on vit se former un observatoire, monument
                 que nous n'avions jamais possédé jusqu'alors, et qui même était
                   conçu sur une échelle plus grand que tous les autres observa
                   toires des provinces du nord.

                     Tant d'établissemens nouveaux exigeaient un nombreux per
                 sonnel ; et quoique la Belgique commençât à compter un assez
                grand nombre d'hommes distingués, il se trouvait encore beau
                coup de lacunes dans différentes branches d'enseignement. Le
                Gouvernement appela donc des savans étrangers, auxquels il ré
                 unit d'autres savans venus des provinces septentrionales. Notre
                 orgueil national, trop susceptible, vit avec peine ces différens ap
                 pels ; et l'on doit convenir que plusieurs professeurs étrangers
                 ne tinrent peut-être pas assez compte des circonstances fâcheuses
                 dans lesquelles ce pays s'était trouvé, et qu'ils furent loin de
                 respecter ces susceptibilités nationales. Tous les choix d'ailleurs
                 n'avaient pas été également heureux. De là, en grande partie, la
                 défaveur qui s'attacha aux Universités naissantes, malgré les ser
                   vices réels qu'elles rendirent.

                   La réorganisation de l'Académie de Bruxelles ne fut pas non
                 plus favorablement accueillie. On parut oublier entièrement les

                   services rendus par ce corps savant dont peu de personnes chez

                nous connaissaient les travaux ; on voyait d'ailleurs dans l'Aca-

*\
        ON THE STATE CF MATHEMATICS IN BELGIUM.                      13

demie nouvelle la plupart des membres du corps enseignant.
L'Académie d'une autre part ne cherchait pas à vaincre ces

préjugés : satisfaite en effet des témoignages d'estime qu'elle

recevait des étrangers et du peu de savans qui chez nous se
tenaient au courant de ses publications, elle travaillait dans le

silence et semblait éviter les occasions de se mettre en contact

avec le public, qui de son côté ne vit dans cet isolement qu'un

esprit de dédain et qu'une espèce d'aristocratie scientifique.
L'Académie ne se rebuta point, et, avec la plus louable constance,
elle jeta les bases de grands travaux qui, plus tard, lui vaudront
                                               la nation.
sanIsl  aucun    doute la reconnaissance de    l'Académie,  et  les  grands
        s'éleva  donc contre les Universités,

établissemens scientifiques, d'assez fortes préventions qui furent

préjudiciables au progrès des sciences ; et c'est devant ces pré
ventions que faillirent s'abimer toutes ces grandes institutions
quand éclata la révolution de 1830. Ces souvenirs sont d'au

tant plus douloureux pour l'homme de science qu'ils sont plus
récens ; mais l'historien ne peut les taire, quelqu'amigeant que
le récit eu soit pour son patriotisme. Des mains maladroites

portèrent d'abord la hache dans les universités de l'état, et les
coups furent tels, qu'elles n'ont pu se rétablir depuis, et qu'une

réorganisation complète devient de plus en plus urgente ; quel
ques voix demandaient la suppression de l'Académie, et le refus

de subsides pour nos grands établissemens, dont plusieurs même
n'étaient pas entièrement achevés ; ainsi l'on proposa de con
vertir le naissant observatoire en abattoir, en hôpital des cholé
riques, ou en magasin à poudre. Mais, Mtons-nous de le dire,
le bon sens repoussa ces folles exigences comme indignes de la
nation. On comprit combien il y aurait eu de honte à profiter
des premiers instansde notre émancipation politique pour ruiner
tous les monumens scientifiques dus à un gouvernement que l'on
peignait comme oppresseur de la pensée. Mais pourquoi rap

peler ces souvenirs, quand le danger a cessé d'exister, et que
chaque jour on comprend mieux combien un peuple ajoute à sa

dignité, en donnant des asyles aux sciences et de l'appui à ceux

qui les cultivent.

   Je viens de tracer rapidement les différentes phases que les

sciences ont présentées en Belgique ; je vais tacher d'énumérer
maintenant les principaux travaux qui ont été produits dans ces
derniers temps ; s'ils sont moins nombreux et moins importans
que ceux qu'ont fait naître des pays plus favorisés, on doit sur
tout en attribuer la cause aux circonstances dans lesquelles s'est

trouvée la Belgique.
   Mathématiques. -- Le Commandeur De Nieuport, comme déjà

nous l'avons dit, a été, pendant sa longue carrière, pour ainsi
44 FIFTH REPORT 1835.

dire l'unique représentant des sciences exactes en Belgique. Sea
premiers travaux furent réunis dans un recueil dont un volume
                                en 1799, sous le titre de Mélanges
parut en 1794,  et  un second   surtout relatifs à l'intégration des
Mathématiques       ; ils sont
                *               partielles. Les Mémoires de l'In

équations aux différentielles
stitut de France renferment aussi un de ses écrits sur l'équation
                                                             autre sur un problème
générale   des  pDoly'Agloenmesherrté.guliEenrs,18e0t 2unil  donna une suite à ses
prescrite
           par
mélanges, et publia des recherches sur l'Intégrabilité médiate
des équations différentielles d'un ordre quelconque et entre un
nombre quelconque de variables. Par intégration médiate, l'au
teur entend l'aptitude à devenir une différentielle exacte au
moyen d'un facteur. Les pertes nombreuses que M. De Nieuport
avait faites pendant la révolution, l'état d'isolement dans lequel
il vivait, et le manque absolu de savans avec qui il pût causer de sa

science de prédilection, avaient donné un autre cours à ses idées ;
il s'était tourné                          dlaanlsittséersarteuvreersa.ncieInl npea,raqisui
lui donnaient de   vers la philosophie et
                    douces consolations

sait avoir perdu entièrement de vue les recherches mathéma
tiques, quand la réorganisation de l'Académie de Bruxelles, dont
Ilil avait été l'un des anciens membres, vint le rendre à ses pre
miers travaux.      inséra, dans les recueils de ce corps savant,

différens mémoires dans lesquels on retrouve des idées ingéni
euses, mais qui avaient moins pour objet de faire avancer la sci
ence que de perfectionner quelques détails. Les uns concernent
la métaphysique du calcul différentiel, ou présentent des ré

flexions sur les notions fondamentales en géométrie ; d'autres se

rapportent à des problèmes du calcul des probabilités, ou à des
propriétés des lignes du second ordre. Les principaux travaux

mathématiques, composés pendant la vieillesse du Commandeur
De Nieuport, sont les suivans :

Esquisse d'une méthode inverse des formules intégrales dé

finies.

Sur l'équilibre des corps qui se balancent librementsur un fil

flexible, et sur celui des corps flottans.                   appuis à la
   Sur la pression qu'exerce un corps sur plusieurs

fois.

   Cette dernière question avait été traitée déjà par Euler dans un
mémoire ayant pour titre : De pressione ponderis in planum
cui incumbit, inséré dans les Recueils de St. Petersbourg. Cet
illustre géomètre y donne les formules relatives au calcul des

pressions exercées par un corps pesant sur les appuis du plan
inflexible qui le soutient. Son hypothèse, comme on sait, con-

                    * lu 1'°, à Bruxelles, ehez Lcmairc.
ON THE STATE OF MATHEMATICS IN BELGIUM.                 45

siste à exprimer la pression sur chaque appui par l'ordonnée cor
respondante d'un même plan. Les conditions de l'équilibre du

système suffisent alors pour déterminer les constantes arbitraires

qui entrent dans l'équation générale du plan.
    D'Alembert s'était occupé du même problême dans le tome

viii. de ses Opuscules ; et il pensait que l'indétermination appa
rente de la question dépendait d'un principe encore inconnu en
mécanique, ou de l'emploi d'un principe connu auquel on n'avait

pas songé.

   M. De Nieuport, après avoir examiné le travail d'Euler, finit

par conclure que la solution de la question devait dépendre du
minimum ou du maximum de quelques fonctions des divers élé-
mens qui constituent les données du problême, et il offrit plu

sieurs considérations à l'appui de cet aperçu.

   M. Pagani reprit la même question en 1823, et présenta à
l'Académie de Bruxelles un mémoire dans lequel, en supposant,

comme tous les géomètres qui s'étaient occupés de ce point de
statique, que la forme du système était invariable, il établissait
à priori que la somme des carrés des pressions doit être tin mi
nimum ; il fit voir ensuite que ce principe conduisait à l'hypo
thèse d'Euler.
   M. A. Timmermans, de son côté, présenta plus tard à l'Aca
démie un mémoire sur les pressions et torsions, dans lequel il
montra qu'on arrivait aussi à l'hypothèse d'Euler, en admettant,

comme point de départ, que le polygone formé par les points

d'appui est décomposé dans tous les triangles possibles, et que
le poids peut être considéré comme supporté par chacun des
triangles qui passent sous lui. La charge de chacun de ces tri
angles est le poids divisé par le nombre des triangles. Quant à
la position du point d'application dans chaque triangle, elle est
connue ; on conçoit donc la possibilité d'exprimer analytique-
ment la pression exercée sur chaque point.
   Les deux mémoires dont il vient d'être parlé ne sont point
encore publiés ; cependant M. Pagani a inséré dans le tome viii.
                         Mémoires de    l'académie      de Bruxelles
(1834) des nouveaux      il résume son                  revient sur la
une note, dans laquelle                 travail, et il

même question, en ayant égard cette fois à la déformation du
système, ce qui fait disparaître l'indétermination qui existe ef
fectivement dans le cas général où la forme du système est sup

posée invariable.
   Nous devons ajouter que le problême d'Euler concernant lés

appuis a été aussi traité dans ces derniers temps par M. Fou
rier sous un point de vue particulier, au moyen de son ingénieuse
théorie du calcul des inégalités, et par M. Navier dans le Nou
veau Bulletin de la Société Philomatique pour 1825.
    4G FIFTH REPORT -- 1835.

    M. Gamier, à qui l'on doit un grand nombre d'ouvrages élé

    mentaires justement estimés sur les différentes branches des

    mathématiques, avait été appelé comme Professeur à l'Univer
    sité de Gand dès la première organisation de cet établissement.
    Ses connaissances étendues et ses relations avec la plupart des
    mathématiciens les plus distingués de la France, l'avaient mis

    à même de donner une impulsion favorable à l'étude des sciences
    exactes. Il a publié successivement des éditions nouvelles de la
    Ilplupart de ses ouvrages, et il y a introduit des améliorations
    utiles.  a aussi fait paraître un mémoire sur les machines *,

    dans lequel il s'est attaché à fondre et à coordonner en corps de
    doctrine les matériaux épars sur cette partie intéressante de la

    mécanique, en y joignant des réflexions suggérées par la discus

    sion de ces documens.
    Le désir de propager le goût des sciences mathématiques, et

    de donner aux personnes qui s'en occupaient dans le royaume
    les moyens de faire connaître leurs recherches, fit naître l'idée
    de publier, sous forme de journal, la Correspondance Mathéma
    tique et Physique, 1825 t. M. Garnier prit part à la création
    de ce recueil ; et deux ans après, il laissa le soin de la publica
    tion à son co-rédacteur. S'il est ici fait mention de ce journal,
    c'est parcequ'avec les nouveaux Mémoires de l' Académie, comme
    on le verra par ce qui suit, il renferme à peu près tout ce qui, dans

    ces derniers temps, a été écrit en Belgique sur les sciences ma

    thématiques, du moins dans la vue de présenter des recherches

    originales %.
       On aurait tort cependant de passer sous silence les disserta

    tions qui, du temps du gouvernement précédent, ont été pro
    duites dans nos universités, soit pour l'obtention des grades de
    Docteur, soit pour les questions des prix annuels ; quelques unes
    que j'aurai occasion de signaler présentaient un intérêt réel, et
                                                   tiré profit §.
    des observations utiles dont la   science   a  ouvrages élémentaires
                                       ici des
      Je ne crois pas devoir parler                                                                  :

    si la Belgique a produit peu du côté des ouvrages originaux, je
    ne pense pas qu'il y ait de pays qui puisse lui disputer la palme
    pour le nombre des traités d'arithmétique, d'algèbre, de géomé-

    * Tome i. des nouveaux Mémoires de l'Académie de Bruxelles.
    t Les rédacteurs avaient commencé par proposer des problèmes à résoudre
    îdans les Annales Belgiques, où ils inséraient les solutions qui leur parvenaient.

          En parlant de ce recueil, il ne sera fait mention du reste que des savans
    Belges qui ont pris part à sa rédaction. Parmi les savans étrangers on di
    stingue MM. Ampère, Babbage,      JB.arHloewrs,chBelo,uHvaorrdn,er,ChLaosbleas,tto,EnPclaken,a,
    Gautier, Hachette, Hamilton, Sir                                                                 Forbes,
                                                                                                     Ponce-

    let, Potter, Pontécoulant, Capt. Sabine, Valz, Villermé, Whewell, etc.                           au
       § Depuis 1830 on a aboli les concours et l'obligation pour les candidats

    grade de Docteur d'écrire une dissertation.

"\
ON THE STATE OF MATHEMATICS IX BELGIUM.                     47

trie, et de mécanique industrielle qui ont pullulé dans ces der
niers temps, et qui se copiant les uns les autres, avec des préten
tions à la nouveauté, n'avaient, la plupart du temps, de vérita
blement neuf que les erreurs qui y étaient introduites : quelques
uns cependant doivent être distingués dans le nombre, et sont
dus à des hommes qui avaient fait leurs preuves, et dont nous
serons les premiers à reconnaître les mérites.
    L'ordre des
                 dates exige que   nous parlions   des   recherches de
M. Dandelin ·,    qui appartient  au petit nombre   des  anciens élèves

de l'Ecole Polytechnique qui, chez nous, ont continué de culti
ver les mathématiques. Un écrit d'un ami le porta à revenir

à une science qu'il avait abandonnée depuis longtemps. Dans
cet écrit, qui a paru en 1820 1, se trouvaient entr'autres théorèmes
sur les sections faites dans les cônes de révolution les suivans,
dont quelques uns, faute de publicité suffisante, ont été repro
duits depuis  comme nouveaux, par différens
parvenus de                                        auteurs  qui y sont
              leur côté. Je me bornerai à les      énoncer
                                                            pour l'El
lipse ; on les modifiera sans peine pour la parabole et l'hyper
bole.

   1°. La différence des deux rayons vecteurs menés du sommet

du cône aux extrémités du grand axe de l'ellipse vaut la distance

des deux foyers de cette même ellipse.
2°. Si l'on joint un même point quelconque d'une ellipse au
foyer de cette ellipse et au sommet du cône, la différence des

rayons vecteurs est une quantité constant.
3°. La somme de deux rayons vecteurs menés du sommet du
cône aux extrémités d'un même diamètre de l'ellipse est con

stante.

   4°. La surface aplanie d'un cône à base elliptique est une el
lipse qui a même excentricité que l'ellipse qui sert de base.

   5°. L'aire d'im cône qui a pour base une ellipse, est à l'aire
de cette ellipse comme la somme des rayons vecteurs menés du
sommet aux extrémités du grand axe de l'ellipse, est à ce même

grand axe.
   6°. Tous les cônes qui ont pour base une même section co

nique, ont leurs sommets sur une autre section conique située
dans un plan perpendiculaire à celui de la première, les foyers
de l'une de ces courbes servans de sommets à l'autre, et réci

proquement.

    M. Dandelin, dans son mémoire sur quelques propriétés de la
focale parabolique %, fit voir qu'on déduisait comme corollaire

   · M. Dandelin d'abord officier du génie, avait passé ensuite dans l'enseigne
ment ; il est rentré au service militaire en 1830.

   t Nouveaux Mémoire* de l'Académie de Bruretlet, torn. xi.
  î Id., torn. ii.
48 FIFTH REPORT-- 1835.

de ces propositions un théorème fort élégant qui se trouve aujour
d'hui dans plusieurs ouvrages élémentaires, et qui peut s'énoncer
ainsi : un cône droit étant coupé par un plan, on peut en géné
ral concevoir deux sphères qui, touchant le cône dans son inté
rieur, touchent aussi le plan sécant : alors les deux points de
contact du plan et des sphères sont les foyers de la section co

nique. M. Dandelin a donné une nouvelle extension à ce théo
rème dans un mémoire sur l' hyperboldide de révolution et sur
les hexagones de Pascal et de Brianchon *, qui pour l'élégance
des méthodes géométriques est peut-être le mémoire le plus re

marquable que l'on ait écrit en Belgique f-

   Enfin le tome iv. des nouveaux Mémoires de l' Académie de
Bruxelles renferme encore deux autres écrits de M. Dandelin,
l'un Sur les intersections de la sphère et d'un cône du second
degré, l'autre sur l'emploi des projections stéréographiques en

géométrie.

   M. Timmermans % s'occupa également avec succès de la géo
métrie à trois dimensions ; on a particulièrement de lui des

recherches ingénieuses sur la théorie générale des Caustiques
qu'on a essayé dans ces derniers temps de réduire à sa forme la

plus simple §, ainsi qu'un essai sur une nouvelle théorie des
courbes \\ . L'auteur rapporte les courbes à un système dont les
coordonnés sont les deux rayons de courbure successifs ; et leur
équation est la relation qui existe entre ces deux rayons ; on
conçoit que l'équation doit avoir ainsi plus de simplicité, puisque
le paramètre de la courbe est le seul élément qui entre dans sa
composition. Une partie du mémoire est consacré à faire voir
l'utilité que l'on peut retirer de cette théorie, en la fesant servir à
la résolution des equations numériques, à la recherche d'une
classe d'intégrales définies, et à la résolution de quelques ques
tions
            de   mécanique.   où l'impulsion  donnée à la géométrie  à
  Il        est  peu de pays

trois dimensions par l'illustre Monge ait laissé des traces plus
sensibles qu'en Belgique. Les Mémoires de l' Académie et la Cor
respondance Mathématique en fournissent la preuve ; outre les
écrits qui ont déjà été mentionnés, ils présentent un grand nombre

de recherches de différens géomètres nationaux et étrangers

Il § X ,f-· Nouveaux Mémoires de l'académie de Bruxelles, tom. iii.
             M. Bobilier s'est occupé du même sujet, torn. iv. p. 157 et suivantes de la

Correspondance Mathématique.

      M. Timmermans, alors professeur de mathématiques, a passé dans l'arme

du génie en 1831.                                     Malhém., et Annales Mathé
       Nouveaux Mémoires de l'Académie, Corresp.

matiques de M. Gergonne, passim.
       Mémoires de la Société des Sciences de Lille.
ON THE STATE OF MATHEMATICS IN BELGIUM.        49

dont les noms sont honorablement, connus, tels que MM. Ha
chette, Poncelet, Chasles, Bobillier, Van Rees, Olivier, Reiss,
Noël, etc.·

   On demandera peut-être si cette tendance trop exclusive vers
des méthodes qui n'ont dans le plus grand nombre de cas ni la
généralité ni la richesse des méthodes analytiques ne doit pas
être considérée comme dangereuse. Cette crainte paraîtra
fondée sans doute surtout dans un pays où les mathématiques,
nouvelles encore, ont besoin de s'établir sur un bon pied, et de
mandent à ne point être faussées dans leur direction. Cepen
dant si cette tendance doit être restreinte en général, on aurait
tort de vouloir l'arrêter chez ceux qui ont pour ce genre d'étude
des talens particuliers. On n'a pas d'ailleurs tiré de la géo
métrie tout le parti possible, et il est des questions d'un certain

ordre qui se laissent aborder par elle plus facilement que par

 l'analyse, et qui portent ainsi une conviction plus grande dans
 les esprits.

    C'est pour appeler l'attention sur ce point scientifique que
 l 'Académie, au Concours de 1S30, avait demandé l'examen phi
losophique des différentes méthodes employées dans la géomé
 trie récente, et particulièrement de la méthode des polaires réci
 proques. M. Chasles, de Chartres, à qui la médaille d'or a été
 décernée, a traité ce sujet avec beaucoup de talent, et a fait voir,
 dans un écrit qui ne tardera pas à paraître, que la plupart des
 théories nouvelles peuvent être déduites de quelques principes
 fondamentaux d'une fécondité remarquable, et qui sont pour la
 géométrie à peu près les analogues du principe des vitesses vir
 tuelles pour la mécanique.

     Ce n'était pas la première fois que l'Académie de Bruxelles
 mettait au concours des questions de géométrie à côté de celles
 d'analyse et de mécanique; elle avait proposé en 1S24 une
 question sur la théorie des sections annulaires ou lignes spi-
 riques, question d'une portée moindre que la précédente, mais
 qui cependant n'était pas indigne de fixer l'attention, puisque le

 if,tore trouve un fréquent emploi dans les arts. Le prix fut dé

 cerné à M. Pagan qui donna l'équation générale de ces courbes
 du 4e degré, et leur discussion complète avec les caractères pour
 les reconnaître. Après l'impression de son mémoire, l'auteur
 fit connaître, parla Correspondance Mathématique, un caractère

    · M. Goehel, alors professeur de mathématiques à l'Université de Louvain,
auteur d'un traité de géométrie, a publié un mémoii v Lutin sur les moyens le»
plus efficaces pour exciter les jeunes gens à l'étude de la géométrie descriptive.
M. Goebel habite l'Allemagne depuis 1830.

    ·t M. Pagani, depuis la suppression de la faculté des sciences de Louvain en
1830, est professeur à l'Université de Liège.

1835.  b
50 FIFTH REPORT -- 1835.

très simple pour distinguer la réalité d'une équation littérale da
4e degré assez compliquée ; ce qui achevait la discussion des

équations des sections annulaires.

analyse. --L'analyse algébrique a été moins cultivée que la

géométrie; cependant on peut citer quelques écrits qui ren
ferment des choses remarquables, mais on trouve encore dans
plusieurs une tendance à reporter l'analyse sur le terrain de la

géométrie: ainsi MM. Dandelin, Timmermans et Van Rees

ont puisé dans des constructions des méthodes nouvelles pour
la résolution des équations*. On doit aussi à M. Van Reesf
deux mémoires intéressans, l'un sur l' analyse des fonctions an
gulaires, l'autre sur la convergence des séries et des produits
             Parmi les
continus^.   ne devons  personnes qui ont cultivé l'analyse algé-
hrique nous             pas omettre non plus M. Verhulst, qui
s'est particulièrement occupé de la théorie des nombres, et M.
Noël, qui par son calcul des indices a essayé des voies nouvelles

Ilpour la solution de différentes classes de problèmes §.

       existe encore des nuages dans la théorie de l'elimination.
Quand quelques unes des racines de l'équation finale sont in

commensurables, comme on ne peut en obtenir que des valeurs
rapprochées, la substitution de chacune d'elles dans les deux
proposées ordonnées suivant l'autre inconnue, en altère les co-

efficiens d'une manière qu'on ne peut apprécier, en sorte que

chaque substitution dénature ou peut dénaturer les valeurs de
la seconde inconnue, c. à d. lui en faire acquérir qui soient très
éloignées des véritables. L'Académie de Bruxelles avait en
conséquence demandé au Concours de 1823, de déterminer, sans

résoudre effectivement les équations, 1. les limites extrêmes
des valeurs de chacune des inconnues; 2. une limite au dessous

de laquelle ne puisse tomber la différence entre deux valeurs de

chacune de ces mêmes inconnues (ce qui rentre dans la méthode
de Lagrange, pour la recherche des racines incommensurables
des équations à une inconnue). L'Académie demandait de plus
des applications numériques aux solutions réelles seulement,
inégales, égales et incommensurables. Le mémoire qu'elle a
couronné pour cette question se trouve inséré dans le tome iv.

    * "Recherches sur la Résolution des Equations Numériques," par G. Dande
lin, tome iii. des Mim. de l'Acad. "Sur les Limites des Racines des Equations
littérales du o' Degré," par M. Van Rees, tome v. Cotres. Math. "Sur la Réso
lution des Equations Numériques," par M. Timmermans, tome ii. Coït. Math.

   T M. Van Rees, alors professeur de mathématiques à l'Université de Liège,
se trouve en Holland depuis 1830.

  J Corresp. Math., tome vi.

   § M. Verhulst, professeur à l'Ecole Militaire de Bruxelles ; M. Noël, pro
fesseur à Luxembourg.
          ON THB STATE OF MATHEMATICS IN BEI.GIl'M.        51

 des Mémoires Couronnés; il est de M.Vène, officier du génie
 en France.

    Les Mémoires de l' Académie, tome v., contiennent aussi un
 écrit intéressant de M. Pagani sur un point délicat d'analyse.
Le développement d'une fonction arbitraire en séries trigono-
 métriques, indiqué d'abord par Lagrange, et étendu ensuite par
Fourier, servant à l'intégration des équations linéaires aux dif

férentielles partielles, ne suffit pas dans tous les cas. L'objet du
mémoire de M. Pagani est de transformer les fonctions arbi
traires en séries, dont les termes généraux dérivent d'une certaine
fonction plus générale que les fonctions symétriques, et compre

Ilnant celles-ci comme des cas particuliers.

        serait difficile du reste et même superflu de s'appesantir ici
sur les différentes recherches mathématiques qui ont été pro
duites chez nous, surtout quand elles n'ont pas pour objet de
faire avancer la science ou qu'elles ne marquent pas la tendance
actuelle des esprits.

Mécanique. -- Après avoir parlé des mathématiques pures,

nous indiquerons les principaux travaux qui ont été faits dans ce
qui se rapporte à la mécanique analytique. M. Pagani, qui semble
avoir en vue de présenter plus tard un ouvrage qui résume

l'ensemble de cette science, a successivement fait connaître, dans
différens mémoires *, la manière d'envisager les théories fonda
mentales. Ainsi dans un premier travail sur le principe des vi
tesses virtuelles, il a donné une démonstration de ce principe, et
le moyen le plus simple                                    déplacement virtuel
d'un système invariable  pf.ourIldéste'ersmt inoecrcupleé    ensuite dans diffé

rens écrits de l'équilibre et du mouvement des systèmes flexibles,
et il a été conduit ainsi à considérer l'intégration de différentes

équations qu'on rencontre dans la théorie de la chaleur : par ex
emple, dans un mémoire couronné sur les mouveniens oscilla
toires des systèmes flexibles linéaires %, M. Pagani fait voir com
ment une certaine intégrale définie employée par Fourier peut
servir à déterminer les limites des racines d'une équation tran

scendante, et l'analogie entre les oscillations de certains systèmes
linéaires et la propagation de la chaleur à travers certains corps

solides.

Dans un autre mémoire, sur l'integration des équations rela
tives au mouvement de la chaleur dans les corps solides §,

· Voyez les Mém. de l'Acad. de Brux., la Corresp. Math., et le Journal de
M. Crelle, vol. xii.
   T Nouv. Mém. de l'Académie, tome iii., et une note dans le 1 1e volume du
Journal de M. Crelle.
X Mém. Couronnés de l'Acad., tome v.  § Mém., tome viii.

                         E2
f,2 FIFTH REPORT 1835.

M. Pagani s'est proposé de résoudre par la méthode de Fourier
les problèmes généraux qui comprennent comme des cas parti
culiers ceux qui ont été résolus pour la première fois dans la
théorie de la chaleur. Cette solution était importante si l'on

considère que des géomètres du premier ordre, et particulière
ment M. Poisson dans le 19eme Cahier de VJCrole Polytechnique,
avaient combattu la méthode de Fourier comme insuffisante.

   M. Timmermans, qui s'est occupé, comme M. Pagani, du prin
cipe des vitesses virtuelles* et du problème de la pression d'un
corps qui porte sur plusieurs appuis, a présenté en 1829 à l'Aca
démie de Bruxelles un mémoire sur la forme la plus avanta
geuse à donner aux alles des moulins à vent. Dans ce mémoire,
qui a obtenu la médaille d'orf, l'auteur a traité d'une manière

très générale un problème qui déjà avait occupé plusieurs géo

mètres distingués, et les équations auxquelles il a été conduit
vérifient dans les cas particuliers les résultats d'Euler, de Lam
bert, et de Luloss.

   Il est à regretter que différens autres ouvrages de mécanique

analytique remarquables sous plusieurs rapports n'aient point
encore reçu de publicité ; nous citerons en particulier deux mé
moires de M. Timmermans sur les pressions et torsions, un 3*
mémoire du même auteur sur l'homme considéré comme agent
mécanique, de même qu'un mémoire sur le zinc par M. l'ingé
nieur De Behr, où l'on trouve des théorèmes remarquables sur

 la résistance des solides.
    L'Académie a couronné tout récemment (1835) un autre tra

vail de mécanique pratique qui avait pour objet de déterminer
le moyen le plus avantageux d'élever l'eau à des hauteurs de
plus de cent mètres par le moyen de l'air atmosphérique. En
proposant cette question, l'Académie n'avait pour objet que de
provoquer de la part des hommes versés dans la science de l'in
génieur, une discussion approfondie sur une nouvelle application
de l'air atmosphérique comme véhicule de la force motrice %.

    La Belgique s'est associée dans ces derniers temps aux efforts
 des savans qui ont cherché à faire descendre de plus en plus
parmi lea classes industrielles les trésors scientifiques qui res
taient trop exclusivement le domaine du géomètre. MM. Dan-
delin, Pagani et Lemairc ont été des premiers à seconder cet

élan, soit par des cours publics, soit par des traités spéciaux de

mécanique industrielle. Le Gouvernement, en 1828, avait de son
côté commencé à Bruxelles un Musée des Arts et de l'Industrie,

mais qui jusqu'à présent est demeuré comme un corps sans âme,
comme un objet de pure curiosité, et, il faut le dire, plutôt

* Corrrsj). Mail/., tome i.  \ Mém. Couronnés, tome viii.
t Le Mémoire Couronne est lie M. Dcvaux, ingénieur à Liège.
     ON THB STATE OF MATHEMATlCS IN BKLGITM.                  53

comme un vaste magasin d'instrumens de physique anciens et
modernes que comme un répertoire que l'on puisse présenter
d'une manière utile à nos industriels. C'est un cabinet très
curieux sans doute pour le vulgaire ; mais ou le physicien, à qui

il semble plus particulièrement destiné, chercherait vainement

pour les expériences délicates les instrumens dont il est dans le
cas d'avoir besoin.

Physique. -- La saine physique a fait trop peu de progrès en

Belgique pour qu'on puisse même apprécier les déplorables la
cunes qui viennent d'être signalées·. Dans l'Optique, qui est la
branche pour laquelle on peut citer au moins quelques écrits re
marquables, il se trouve cependant encore si peu d'adeptes qu'il
est facile de compter ceux pour lesquels les phénomènes brillans
de la polarisation ne sont plus un secret. C'était pour répandre

davantage le goût de cette partie attrayante de la physique que

J.M. Verhulst entreprit de donner une traduction de l'ouvrage de

Sir Herschel sur la lumière ; mais il fallut recourir aux presses
de Paris pour en faciliter l'impression.
Vers la même époque M. Plateau publiait une dissertation
sur                                                           produites par la lumière
sur  quelques  pdreoplariévtuéesf,dedsainmsprlaeqssuieolnles  il établissait, d'une ma
     l'organe
nière beaucoup plus précise qu'on ne l'avait fait jusqu'alors, la

durée des impressions produites sur la rétine pour les différentes

couleurs ; il examine dans le même mémoire, d'une manière gé
Ilnérale, les illusions produites par des lignes qui tournent les
unes devant les autres.  revint à différentes reprises sur ces
recherches % qui avaient occupé vers la même époque MM.
Roget et Faraday, et en suivant le cours de ces idées, il imagina
de construire l'instrument iugénieux désigné tour à tour sous
le nom de Fantascope, de Phénakisticope et de Stroboscope §.
   Dans un autre mémoire dont la lere partie a été publiée dans

le tome viii. des Mémoires de l'académie de Bruxelles, M. Pla

teau présenta un essai d'une théorie générale comprenant la

persistance des impressions de la rétine, les couleurs acciden-

    · On pourrait reprocher peut-être à l'Académie de Bruxelles de ne pas avoir
fait à la physique une part assez grande dans les programmes de ses concours.
Cependant le 1er volume de ses Mémoires Couronnés contient un travail de M.
De Hemptinne sur la vapeur d'eau employée comme moyen d'échauftement.

   t Publiée à l'occasion de sa promotion au grade de Docteur, in 4°, à Liège,

1829.
    X Corresp. Mathêm. Voyez dans le même recueil, sur ce sujet, les recherches

de M. Lefrançois.
    { Cet instrument d'optique fut construit presqu'en même temps à Vienne; et

l'on peut présumer par le rapprochement des dates que l'auteur Allemand n'avait
point connaissance de la publication faite à Bruxelles.
54 FIFTH HEPORT -- 1835.

telles, l'irradiation, les effets de la juxtaposition des couleurs,les
ombres colorées, etc. D'après cette théorie, lorsque la rétine,
après avoir été écartée de son état normal par la présence d'un
objet coloré, est subitement abandonnée à elle-même, elle re
gagne d'abord rapidement le point de repos ; mais entraînée par
cette espèce de mouvement, elle dépasse ce point et se constitue
dans un état oscillatoire plus ou moins prolongé, d'où résulte la
succession de deux sensations opposées, savoir, celle de la cou

leur primitive et celle de la couleur complémentaire. La pre

mière demi-oscillation constitue la persistance de l'impression
primitive. D'un autre côté, pendant qu'une portion de la rétine
est soumise à l'action de la lumière, les parties voisines parti
cipent à cette excitation jusqu'à une très petite distance, et
donnent ainsi lieu au phénomène de l'irradiation ; mais en vertu
de la même loi de continuité, au delà de cette limite, se manifeste
un état opposé, d'où résulte la sensation de la teinte complémen
taire qui modifie la couleur des objets voisins. M. Plateau a
montré que, plus loin encore, se retrouve quelquefois une légère
nuance de la couleur primitive. Ainsi l'on a d'un côté relative
ment à l'espace, les mêmes phénomènes oscillatoires qui se pro
duisent de l'autre relativement au temps : tous dépendent d'une
même loi de continuité. Cette théorie est développée avec beau
coup de clarté, et repose sur des expériences dont plusieurs sont
entièrement nouvelles.

   M. Plateau a inséré, depuis, différentes notes sur la vision
dans les Bulletins de l 'Académie de Bruxelles, où l'on trouve aussi
l'extrait d'un mémoire très intéressant de M. le Professeur Crahay
sur guelques phénomènes de vision. Ce dernier physicien a ex

pose, d'une manière claire et très satisfaisante, comment les ob

jets forment leurs images au fond de l'oeil, et comment il faut
s'expliquer une quantité d'illusions d'optique dont les physiciens
ont parlé dans ces derniers temps ; lui-même il produit plusieurs
expériences nouvelles, et qui se déduisent comme conséquence
de sa théorie. M. Crahay est conduit à conclure de ses re
cherches que l'oeil présente à la fois, dans la formation des
images, l'aberration de sphéricité et l'aberration de réfrangibi-
lité, conformément aux recherches faites récemment encore par
M. Powell.

   En parlant de la partie de la physique qui concerne la vision,
nous ne croyons pas devoir mentionner la théorie des caustiques

dont plusieurs auteurs se sont occupés, parcequ'elle appartient
plutôt aux mathématiques pures.

   Les phénomènes de l'Electricité ont médiocrement excité l'at
tention des Belges ; je ne parle point de ceux qui remontent au

temps de l'illustre Volta, et qui ont trouvé place dans le Journal
ON THE STATE OF MATHEMATICS IN BELGIUM.                         55

de Chimie de M. le Professeur Van Mons, mais de ceux plus ré-

cens de l'Electro-dynamique, dont les développemens ont été si
rapides et ont produit des résultats si surprenans. Le peu de

personnes qui s'en sont occupées chez nous, se sont plutôt bor

nées à vérifier les résultats obtenus, et à présenter leurs observa
tions sur les explications qui en étaient données ; sous ce rap

port, les recherches de MM. Lipkens, Gloesener, et Vanderhey-
den, qui a reconnu un des premiers l'effet des courans sinueux,
n'ont pas été perdues pour la science. Cet état de choses pou
vait tenir à la difficulté de se procurer de bons instrumens ;
cependant un jeune artiste Bruxellois, M. Sacré, dont le nom
mérite de trouver place ici, construisait avec beaucoup de

dextérité les instrumens les plus délicats, et souvent même
avant qu'on put se les procurer chez nos voisins. En général,

le travail des arts de précision est très négligé en Belgique, et

mériterait des encouragemens. M. Sacré a construit des aimans
remarquables par leur force ; nous en citerons un de 27 kilo
grammes de poids qui en a porté 196. Des aimans de 2£ kilo
grammes ont porté 424 kilogrammes ou 17 fois leur poids·.

   Le Magnétisme terrestre, comme élément du temps, ne devait

pas être négligé dans un observatoire; aussi, avant même l'achève
ment de celui de Bruxelles, fut-il compris au nombre des ob
jets qui devaient fixer l'attention de l'astronome. Cette partie

de la physique avait été si honteusement négligée parmi nous,
qu'en fouillant dans nos annales scientifiques on ne trouve pour

les temps antérieurs à 1827 que trois observations de dé
clinaison faites à Luxembourg, à Nieuport et à Ostende, par
deux physiciens Anglais. Depuis cette époque des observations
régulières sur la déclinaison et l'inclinaison de l'aiguille ont été

faites avec d'excelleus instrumens de MM. Troughton et Simms
de Londres. L'intensité magnétique relativement à d'autres
stations fondamentales, telles que Paris, Londres, Berlin, etc.,

a été également déterminée avec     soin  et contrôlée par des   phy
siciens distingués, et entr'autres  par                         Capi
                                          MM. Rudberg et le
taine Sabine. M. Forbes a fait à Bruxelles des observations

comparatives analogues, mais les résultats n'en sont point en

core connus.

   La partie pratique du Magnétisme a conduit à des recherches
de théorie qui ont été consignées dans un mémoire inséré dans
les Annales de Physique et de Chimie (Juillet 1833), sous le
titre, Recherche sur les degrés successifs deforce qu'une aiguille
d'acier reçoit pendant les frictions multiples qui servent à
l'aimanter.

   · M. Sacré a aussi essayé de construire des chronomètres, partie essentielle
ment négligée chez nous ; et comment aurait.on pu cultiver l'horlogerie avec
succès, puisqu'il n'y avait pas même les moyens de connaître l'heure.
$6 FIFTH REPORT.-- 1835.

   La même lacune se fait remarquer chez nous dans tout ce
qui tient aux températures intérieures de la terre ; il n'existait

à notre connaissance aucune observation à ce sujet avant celles
qui furent commencées à l'Observatoire de Bruxelles en 1834, et
qui se poursuivent régulièrement au moyen de huit thermo
mètres placés à des profondeurs inégales entre la surface du sol

et 24 pieds d'abaissement.

Météorologie. -- Quant à la Météorologie, on trouvera un aperçu

Ilhistorique de ses phases en Belgique jusqu'à ce jour dans le
tome i. des Annales de l' Observatoire de Bruxelles.  résulte

de cet aperçu que cette branche de nos connaissances est loin
d'y avoir été cultivée avec succès, puisque pour la ville par ex
cellence, pour la ville de Louvain, qui pendant quatre siècles a
été en possession d'une Université, on ne connaît pas une seule
série d'observations *.

On peut même regarder comme nul tout ce qui avait été fait eu
météorologie avant la fondation de l'ancienne Académie de Brux
elles. Les relations que ce corps savant établit en 1 784 avec la So
ciété Météorologique de Manheim produisirent des observations
intéressantes qui furent consignées dans les actes de cette der
nière Société. Mais ces observations abandonnées après quelques

années furent reprises à différentes époques par des particuliers

avec beaucoup de zèle sans doute,  mais généralement    avec des
instrumens défectueux. On doit     distinguer parmi
                                                      eux MM.
Poederlé et Kickx qui observaient à Bruxelles. Cependant tous

ces physiciens observaient avec des baromètres peu précis et dé

pourvus de verniers. Ils négligeaient les corrections des tem
pératures et de l'action capillaire, c'est dire assez combien peu
la saine physique avait fait de progrès parmi nous. Un seul
météorologiste vraiment digne de ce nom, M. Crahay, nous a
donné une série d'observations faites à Maestricht avec d'ex-

cellens instrumens et qui remontent à l'année 1818f. On peut
les ranger parmi les meilleures observations de ce genre que

possède la science. M. Crahay, actuellement établi à Malines, a
repris le cours de ses recherches météorologiques ; elles se lient
à celles de l'Observatoire de Bruxelles qui en publiera régu
lièrement les résultats, comme ceux des observations qui se font

simultanément, avec des instrumens comparés, au château de

   · M. le Professeur Van .Minis, qui appartient actuellement à l'Université de
Louvain, et qui s'est occupé avec succès des phénomènes électriques, a publié
dans le tome iv. des Mémoires de l'Académie un mémoire sur les brouillards
rie diverses natures ; il s'est aussi occupé de la théorie de la rosée.

   t Voyez les dift'érens volumes de la Corresp. Math. On trouve aussi dans le
torn. viii. un mémoire intéressant sur les corrections à faire aux observations

barométriques.
OX THK STATK OF MATHEMATICS IN BELGIUM.  57

Rollc, près de Bastogne·, à Liège, à Anvers, et à Gandf. Ce
système combiné d'observations fait d'après de bonnes méthodes

et avec des bons instrumens, donne lien d'espérer des résultats
satisfaisans pour la science et nous mettra sans doute dans une
meilleure voie que celle où nous avons été jusqu'à présent.

   M. Crahay vient de présenter à l'Académie de Bruxelles un
mémoire sur la variation diurne du baromètre, dans lequel il a

obtenu pour principales conclusions :
   1 . En prenant les moyennes de trois années, l'instant du maxi

mum arrive à 9h.259 du matin, et celui du minimum à 3h"812
de l 'après midi ;

   2. Pour les six mois Avril, Mai, Juin, Juillet, Août et Sep
tembre, le maximum arrive de meilleure heure et le minimum
plus tard que pour les six autres mois. Dans la lere période
la durée de l'oscillation diurne est de 7h'68 ; dans la 2cme elle
n'est que de 5h/2.

   astronomie. --Parlerai-je de l'Astronomie, qui couronne pour

 ainsi dire l'édifice des sciences, et qui pourrait donner la me
 sure de la hauteur à laquelle un peuple est parvenu à s'élever ?
 l'état d'abandon dans lequel elle est restée chez nous ne ferait
 pas augurer en notre faveur. Les seules observations que l'on
 ait faites depuis un siècle et demi, c.àd. depuis que l'astro
 nomie a véritablement pris rang comme science, sont dues à un
 étranger, à M. Pigott, dont il a déjà été parlé. Frappé de cette
 lacune, et pressé par de vives prières, le gouvernement des Pays
 Bas, après deux années d'hésitation, ordonna eu 1826 la con
 struction d'un observatoire à Bruxelles, et il est juste de dire
 qu'il voulait dès lors le rendre digne de l'état actuel de la science,
 et plus riche même que ceux des Provinces du Nord. Dès l'an
 née suivante il fit construire les instrumens par les artistes les
 plus habiles, MM.Troughton etSimms en Angleterre, M. Gam-
 bey en France, et M. Kessels, notre compatriote actuellement
 établi en Allemagne ; mais les travaux dont la Régence s'était
 chargée marchèrent avec la plus déplorable lenteur. La Révo
 lution de 1830, comme nous l'avons déjà dit, faillit entraîner la
 ruine de l'observatoire, et détruire pour long temps encore l'ave
 nir de l'astronomie en même temps que toutes les observations

     · Les observations de Bastogne, faites avec beaucoup de soin et de zèle par
  M. Wautier, fils du sénateur, datent de 1834.

    t A» Liège les observations ont été faites en 1830, -31, et -32, par M. Da-

  vreux (voyez le tome i. des Annales de l'Observatoire de Bruxelles) ; elles ont
 été continuées ensuite par M. Deville-Thiry.

      Les observations de Gand et d'Anvers ne sont pas encore entièrement or
 ganisées ; elles seront faites dans cette dernière ville par M. Veyt, ancien
  membre de la Régence.
58 FIFTH REPORT 1835.

régulières qui s'organisaient. Mais cet orage s'est heureuse
ment dissipé, sans que les constructions aient marché avec
moins de lenteur. Aujourd'hui les instrumens sont terminés,

et plusieurs viennent d'être mis en place.

J'ai tracé un tableau rapide de l'état des sciences physiques
et mathématiques dans ce royaume. J'aurais désiré pouvoir
vous entretenir aussi de l'état de la Chimie et des Sciences Natu

relles, dont l'avenir parait beaucoup plus rassurant que celui des
sciences exactes. La Géologie surtout a reçu une impulsion
très heureuse, qui semble particulièrement due aux encourage-
mens de l'Académie de Bruxelles. Les Concours annuels ont

fait naître une série de travaux importans sur la géologie de nos
provinces ; et bientôt l'on se trouvera à même de construire avec

ces matériaux un travail d'ensemble qui pourra rivaliser avec ce
que l'on a de mieux dans ce genre.
On a pu voir par ce qui précède que la nouvelle Académie
n'est pas restée au dessous de sa mission. Les services qu'elle

a rendus aux sciences historiques ne sont pas moins importans*;
mais il est pénible de le dire, ses efforts ont été moins appréciés
Ilà l'intérieur que par les étrangers.
        me reste à présenter une dernière observation.  J'ai dit que

les études profondes avaient été précédemment si négligées, que

les hommes qui commençaient à s'y distinguer étaient jeunes
encore, et que la plupart n'avaient point de carrière déterminée,
quand arriva la Révolution de 1830. Pour ceux qui étaient initiés
aux sciences mathématiques, l'avancement dans les grades mili
taires fut rapide ; aussi l'on vit un grand nombre de Professeurs

séduits par ces avantages quitter l'enseignement et prendre des
grades dans l'armée; leurs élèves les plus distingués les y sui
virent : or l'agitation de cette carrière et des études nouvelles à
commencer les éloignèrent de leurs premières études. D'une

autre part, le pays perdit plusieurs savans par l'état de délabre
ment des Universités, par la dépréciation du professorat, ainsi
que par la suppression de deux des trois facultés de sciences
qui existaient d'abord. Aussi l'on ne doit pas s'étonner de voirie
peu de recherches mathématiques produites depuis cinq ans t ;
il n'en a pas été de même des sciences naturelles. La défection

   · Le Gouvernement donnant suite à des travaux dont l'idée avait été sug
gérée par l'Académie, et dont l'exécution avait même commencé, a créé deux
commissions royales, l'une pour la publication des manuscrits inédits, l'autre

pour les monumens du pays.

   t L'Académie de Bruxelles, depuis 1830, a publié six volumes de Mémoires,

dans lesquels on ne trouve que trois mémoires mathématiques; et la Cor-
retpondance, qui ne comptait plus en Belgique que trois ou quatre collabora
teurs, au lieu de trente au moins qu'elle en avait autrefois, a cessé de paraitre.
    ON THE STATE OF MATHEMATICS IN BELGIUM.      59

n'a pas été aussi générale, et elle ne pouvait l'être ; c'est ce qui
explique aujourd'hui leur état plus prospère.

   On doit ajouter encore que, dans ce qui concerne les sciences
exactes, l'opinion publique ne sert pas même de stimulant; elle
est trop peu éclairée dans ces matières, en sorte que l'état des
sciences est, chez nous, comme un vrai tableau chinois (qu'on
me
     permette cette comparaison), où tout   est  sur un même plan.
Je  m'estimerais heureux si cet essai, lu  par   mes compatriotes,

pouvait contribuer à débrouiller un peu ce cahos, et à faire rendre
justice au vrai mérite.
                (51

*f>n the Phcenomena of Terrestrial Magnetism : being an Abs
tract of   the  MCaagpnteatiinsmEudswdaerrdErSdaebionfe,PrPof.eAs.s,oFr .PC.hS. .Han
steen.
           By

M. Hansteen's attention was first attracted to the subject of
terrestrial magnetism by seeing in the year 1807, at the Cosmo-
graphical Society of Upsala, a terrestrial globe, in the
hemisphere of which was delineated an ellipse entitled                                    so"uRtheegrino
Lpaolnadrisenmtiatlgendet"icRa"e,giohafvoirntgiort"w, othfeocoi,theornenenaeraTr eVrraan  Diemen's
                                                                                          del Fuego
entitled "Regio debilior". The "Regio magnetica" was stated
on the globe to have been deduced by Wilcke from the observa
tions of Cook and Furneaux. This magnetic system being at
variance with the opinion which then generally prevailed, that

the magnetic phenomena could be adequately represented by a

single magnetic axis, M. Hansteen was induced to examine the
observations referred to, and which he found fully to bear out
the view which Wilcke had taken of them.
M. Hansteen proceeded to examine the observations which
at that date had been made in the northern hemisphere. Those
in the neighbourhood of Hudson's Bay sufficiently pointed out
a "Regio fortior" in that vicinity, whilst those of the philoso
phers who visited the northern parts of the old continent in 1 768
and 1769 to observe the transit of Venus, and of Schubert who
visited Siberia in 1805, as clearly indicated the presence of a
second point of magnetic attraction in the northern hemisphere,
either in Siberia or in the sea to the north of it. This indica
tion was further confirmed by the existence of a line of no va
riation in the vicinity of the White Sea ; manifesting that the
attraction of the needle to the westward by the point near Hud

son's Bay must be counterbalanced by an attraction acting from
the opposite quarter, drawing the needle in a contrary direction ;
the two attractions combined producing the intermediate direc
tion of the needle, in a line coinciding with the geographical

meridian.

   The points of strongest attraction in each hemisphere appearing
in nearly opposite points on the globe, and the points of weaker

attraction the same, M. Hansteen was led to connect them re
spectively together ; and from circumstances relating to their
motion, hereafter to be explained, he was induced to prefer an
hypothesis of two magnetic axes, one stronger, and the other
weaker, to Wilcke's hypothesis of elliptical magnetic regions.
62 FIFTH REPORT 1835.

  On comparing the view which he had thus formed with Dr.

Halley's magnetic chart of 1701, M. Hanstcen found a ge
neral accordance. The principal differences were in regard
to the situation of the Siberian pole, and to the motion of the
axes, for both which Dr. Halley had very insufficient data.
M. Hansteen considers therefore that Dr. Halley was the first
person to discover the true magnetic arrangement of the globe,

and that his deductions were fully as precise as the observations

made in his time permitted. A century having since elapsed
of observations with more perfect instruments and methods,

M. Hansteen deemed that the time had arrived when their col
lection in one view and their careful examination might justify
a far more complete and confident deduction. In 1811 the
                of
Royal Society            "ScInienocredserattoCoepxepnlahiangetnhe  proposed the following
prize question  :                                                   magnetic phenomena

of the  ?  e"arthT,heis  one magnetic    axis sufficient, or must we assume
more                     principal part
                                         of M. Hansteen's work was com
posed to meet this question, and received the prize : it was com

pleted and published in the German language in 1819.

   In an Appendix of 148 quarto pages are collected the various

magnetic observations which had been made from the earliest
times to the year 1817, and which were previously scattered
in voyages and travels and in the works of philosophers and
systematic writers. These are arranged in appropriate tables,
and are the materials from which M. Hansteen has constructed

maps of the variation corresponding to the years 1600, 1700,
1710, 1720, 1730, 1744, 1756, 1787, and 1800; and of the dip
for the years 1600, 1700, and 1780. In collecting these obser
vations and in arranging them in maps M. Hansteen has ren

dered a great service to all who desire to acquaint themselves
with the facts regarding terrestrial magnetism that observation
has made known.
   In the first chapter, entitled        " Of the Lines of Variation, and

of their changes between the years 1600 and 1800," the autho
rities for the several maps of variation are discussed, particu
larly those on which the map of 1600 is founded ; these are

examined in considerable detail, and are shown to be fully de
serving of confidence, and sufficiently exact for the purpose, not
withstanding the early period at which they were made.
   In comparing the maps of 1600 and 1700 (PI. I.), the difference
appears at first sight so great that we can hardly imagine how one
series of lines can have passed into the other. The interval of
a century is certainly a longer one than is desirable, and it is

greatly to be regretted that sufficient materials do not exist for
an intermediate map. Aided, however, by the light thrown on
'/f.J i  tilf till·WHTT/urtf i>f'.'>l'rtur·Ay. >.'.
                   ro/.ji:FL.rri',i.p.f:z.>'.

         tx> no  \ia uo

         \WATION 17H7

         un -v   Wo.st

                        I
                                    I

         X) no   120 130
                    JITLotrri'.Mulp.
ON THE PHENOMENA OF TERRESTRIAL MAGNETISM.  63

the changes in that century by the more exact knowledge we
possess of those which took place in the succeeding century,
we may still trace the general order of the changes between
1600 and 1700, though without the precision in point of dates
which is subsequently attainable.

   In the map of 1600 the line of no variation in the Atlantic
quarter of the globe forms two branches, an eastern and a
western. These bend towards each other at the point of their
nearest approach in 20° to 30° north latitude ; and we may for
convenience divide this line of no variation into four portions ;
a north-eastern from Lapland to the middle of Africa ; a south
eastern from the middle of Africa to Cape Lagullus ; a north
western from Labrador to 30° north latitude; and a south
western from latitude 30° north, to the Pacific, passing across
the northern part of South America. In comparing the maps
of 1600 and 1 700, the region of easterly variation included in 1600
between the two northern branches of the line of no variation ap
pears to have moved subsequently in a north-easterly direction,
towards the North of Asia, where it is seen in the maps of 1 7/0and
1787*. The westerly variation, which in 1600 occupied the
coasts of Iceland and Greenland, moving south-westward, ap
pears to have taken the place, in Europe and the adjoining seas,
of the easterly variation which prevailed there in 1600. On the
other hand, the region of easterly variation comprised between
the two southern branches of the line of no variation of 1600
appears to have moved in a south-westerly direction towards
the southern point of South America ; and the westerly variation,
which in 1600 occupied the Indian Ocean, to have moved cor
respondingly towards the Cape of Good Hope. Whilst the
systems in each hemisphere were thus moving in opposite di
rections, the eastern and western branches of the line of no va
riation in 1600, approaching each other more and more in lati
tude 30° north, united previously to 1700, probably in the
neighbourhood of the Cape Verd Islands, and appear in the
map of 1700 as a continuous line, which they have ever since

"preserved. This is the line in Halley's chart entitled Line

of no variation in the Atlantic." The two northern branches,
united between the 20° and 30° north latitude, and still com
prising between them the small region of easterly variation, ap
pear to have moved towards Siberia, where they are seen in the
maps of 1770, 1787j and 1800 ; whilst the lines of westerly va
riation in the north-western Atlantic, following the eastward

    · The Maps, which accompany this notice of M. Hansfeen's work, are those
 of the Variation in 1600, 1700, 1744, and 1787 : and of the Dip in 1600, 1700,

 and 1780.
64 FIFTH REPORT -- 1835.

movement of the line of no variation, advanced towards the east,
until they joined the corresponding lines of westerly variation,
moving in the opposite direction in Africa and the Indian seas ;
and the two united have appeared as continuous lines, from that

Iftime to the present.

        the map of 1700 be placed over that of 1600, and the
points be marked in the latter in which the variation is the same

in both, and a line be drawn connecting those points, two such
lines will appear, one from Labrador across the Atlantic and the
Brazilian continent, the other through the Persian and Arabian
Gulfs and Madagascar.
The first of these lines is intersected near the middle by the
line of no variation in 1600 : the part north of the intersection
is comprised within the region of westerly variation, and the
part south of it within the region of easterly variation. On the
east of the northern part the westerly variation increased be
tween 1600 and 1?00, and diminished 011 the west of it. On

the east side of the southern part the easterly variation dimi
nished, and increased on the west side. On the whole eastern

side of the line of no change the magnetic direction became

more westerly ; the westerly variation increasing, and the
easterly diminishing ; whilst the converse held good on the
western side. Hence it follows that the lines of westerly varia
tion in the Atlantic turned on the points of their intersection
with the line of no                     on pivots, their motion being
that usually termed  c"hwanitghe,thaes  sun," causing the westerly va

riations   to impinge successively on the North-west of  Europe,
and to    advance progressively towards the south-east.
                                                          It was
thus that the line of no variation which was observed in London

in 165/ did not reach Paris until 1666, nine years subsequent.
Ascending from particular to general conclusions, it may be

stated as a general fact, that in the northern hemisphere the
lines of variation collectively have an eastward motion, and in

the southern hemisphere a westward motion.
   In the map of 1700 the lines of no change between 1700 and
1756 are marked in a similar manner. In comparing the At
lantic line with its corresponding one, between 1600 and 1700,
very little difference is perceived. The Indian line forms a
pretty regular curve, from the Arabian Gulf and Madagascar
to the 45th parallel of south latitude, and thence to the Straits

of Sunda, and to China. At all places lying within the bend of
this curve, the westerly variation diminished between 1 700 and
1756, and increased in those lying outside of it.
In comparing the maps of 17^7 and 1800, the westerly varia
tion, which in 17^7 occupied the eastern part of Asia, is found
ON THE PHENOMENA OF TERRESTRIAL MAGNETISM. 65

to have moved in 1800 towards Corea and the adjoining seas ;
still evidencing the general progress eastward of the lines of va
riation  in the northern
   The   second chapter   isheemnitsitplehdere". On  the  Lines  of Dip,  and  on

the Magnetic Force." The commencement of this chapter is
occupied in discussing the materials existing for the construc
tion of the maps of dip in 1600, 1700, and 1780. For that of
1600 the authorities, though few, are shown to be entitled to much
confidence. Those for the map of 1700 are much more numer
ous ; but that of 1 780 is the first tolerably complete system of
the lines of dip warranted by observations. A large space is
occupied in examining the observations upon which the line of no
dip, or, as it is frequently called, the magnetic equator, is laid
down on this map. In the hypothesis of a single magnetic axis
this line should be a great circle ; it however differs much from
the simplicity of figure which would correspond with that hy
pothesis. As much importance is attached to the correct deli
neation of this line, M. Hansteen inserts a table of the several
observations, seventy in number, from which its course is laid
down, and makes each observation the subject of a particular

discussion.

The extreme southern latitude in which the line of no dip is
found is 13£°, which it reaches in from 20° to 26° west from
Greenwich. From that point it slowly but uninterruptedly ap
proaches the geographical equator to the east and to the west,
until it cuts it in Africa in or about 25° east, and in the Pacific
in or about 110° west. These points of intersection, or nodes,

are thus not more than 135° apart, whereas if the magnetic equa
tor were a great circle, they ought to be 180° apart. The inter
section with the geographical equator in Africa is at an angle of
21^°, but in the Pacific at an angle of only 74°. The greatest
northern latitude it attains is in 12$° east of Africa in or about
65° east. Following its course from that point eastwardly, it
slowly declines towards the south to the longitude of Malacca,
where it coincides very nearly with the parallel of 9° north.
Here, however, it bends again to the north, being found in 9^°
north in the longitude of the Philippines ; whence it finally de
scends without interruption till it cuts the geographical equator,
as before stated, in" the Pacific, in longitude 110° west. The
greatest northern latitude attained by this line is in or about
65° east, and the southern extreme is in 23° west. These points
are only 88° apart, furnishing additional evidence that the line
of no dip does not correspond with a great circle on the earth's

surface.

  Each of    the  lines   of  dip  and   variation        drawn  in the maps

1835.                                 f
GO FIFTH REPORT 1835.

would have borne a detailed examination, in the same manner
and to the same extent as is given of the line of no dip ; but

this would obviously have occupied too much space. M. Han-
steen refers to the observations collected in the Appendix, as
containing the authority for, and proof of, each line ; adding
his own assurance that an equally scrupulous care has been be
stowed on all. Each line, separately considered, affords a
distinct evidence of systematic inconsistency with the hypothesis
of a single magnetic axis. The line of no dip has been selected
as an example, because it is the line most usually referred to in

such discussions.
A summary of the principal changes that have taken place in
the dip in various parts of the world, from the earliest observa
tions to the present time, is as follows : the north dip has in
creased in North America, diminished in Europe, and increased
in eastern Asia and Japan ; the south dip has decreased in South
America, has been nearly stationary near the Cape of Good Hope,
and has decreased in the vicinity of the Straits of Sunda and
New Holland.

The remainder of this chapter is occupied in considering the
few observations of the magnetic force that had been made when

M. Hansteen's work was published. In the hypothesis of a sin
gle magnetic axis, it is a well-known law that the force should
increase from the magnetic equator towards each of the mag
netic poles, according to a certain function of the dip ; conse

quently that all   Iptlaiscesshohwanv,inghowtehveers, amtheat dtihpe  should have   the
same intensity.                                                       observations  not

only do not accord with this law, but that they present marked
and systematic differences from it. Comparative observations
of the magnetic force in places in Europe and in America, hav

ing the same dip, show uniformly that a less intensity prevails
in Europe than in America. In tracing along any of the lines
of dip on which such comparative observations have been made,
the intensity is found progressively to diminish from a maximum
on the western side of America, to a minimum in the western
parts of Europe, in those lines of dip which are included in the
latitudes of Europe, and in somewhat more easterly meridians in
those which approach thegeographical equator, as well as in those
further to the south. In tracing any of these lines still further

to the eastward, the intensity again increases.

   A second systematic difference from the law founded on a sin
gle magnetic axis is the following. In places lying under the
same geographical meridian, a much greater increase of force
corresponds to a given increase of dip in the meridians of New
Holland and America than in those of Europe and Africa.
>

··> ITrtu .·'«i .'Hm tin  32il 33il .'tin  :i.V
                                   /v//// rrport t/t't/te Brit. .f.wr. jhr tftr adra/irsr/icnj of 'Srrsrirr, M.K'.
tin 70 tto 90 ij ki lio iSO iSO ll<> l."><> li.o l/O 1HO

                                                                                                                     J.W.Lowry x/ttfy
        ON THE PHENOMENA OF TERRESTRIAL MAGNETISM. 67

    Hence M. Hansteen concludes that a more extensive acquain
tance with the lines of equal magnetic intensity would show them
to be equally irreconcileable with the hypothesis of a single mag
netic axis as those of dip and variation are found to be·.

    Having thus prepared and arranged the materials furnished
by observation, M. Hansteen proceeds, in the 3rd chapter, to
consider the evidence they afford of the number, situation, and
movement of the magnetic poles.

   The variation map of 1787 (PI. I.) exhibits a tolerably complete
system of the lines of variation. In the neighbourhood of Hudson's
Bay, Ibe indication of a point of directing influence is obvious
in that quarter, evidenced by the characteristic circumstances
of a rapid convergency of the lines, and of the proximity of great
easterly and great westerly variations. A similar indication is
seen to the south of New Holland. In two other quarters also,
viz. to the south of Cape Horn and in Siberia, are less obvious,
but still decisive, characteristics of the existence of points of
directing influence.

   In the map of the dip in 1780 (PI. II.), the arrangement of the

lines of dip corresponds to the indications thus traced in the lines
of variation. In each hemisphere the lines of dip have a double
flexure, those in the northern hemisphere making two loops to
the southward, and those in the southern hemisphere making
two loops to the northward. In the lines of dip also the di
recting influences in Siberia and south-west of Cape Horn are
observed to be less distinctly marked than those in Hudson's
Bay and New Holland.

   In regard to the magnetic force, it has already been seen that

· In 1825 I published a series of observations which I had made in 1822 and
                                intensity at  several stations  cSo.mapnridse8d0°beNtw. eenI   the
1823 on the magnetic   dip and  E., and the   parallels of 12°                                was
meridians of 76° W.   and 23°
                                                   work, having been little in Europe
at that time unacquainted withM. Hansteen's        of my observations with the hypo
since its publication ; but the irreconcilability
thesis of a single magnetic axis was too striking to be overlooked, and was ac
cordingly noticed by me : the direction of the curves of equal dip and of equal
force was so far from corresponding, that the latter assuredly could not be com
epnuqotwueadhl,edraeips ehcxarcdoesesbdeeedednthasefuepgwpeoodsgeerdga,prehbeicsya; lanwyphafirulasnltlcetltshioenoisfoofldaytthinteuadmoebicseartlvineaedss,dmiwpa.lilthiaTnnhgtelheelinwsephsaiccoehf
tcnioeoamnr pHbriyusedcdsoonbncye'sntthrBiecayo.bcsuerOrvvenastbioenacsro,omunimndgigahantcqbauesasirnuetmperdeedsewnmtiteahdximMwu.mitHhatnoosflteerienanbte'lsenswaitpyoprrskoi,txuIimawtaeads
much struck by the accordance of my observations, both of dip and force, with
Ithe system which he had anticipated from a study of the phenomena elsewhere ;
and  M.  should not  have failed to have noticed    this circumstance publicly,               had
not      Hansteen    himself anticipated me in a   review of my observations in               the

Annalen der Phytik.             F2
G8 FIFTH KKPORT -- 1835.

on lines of equal dip the intensity is greatest in America; that
it diminishes in going eastward towards Europe and Africa, and
again increases, as the line of equal dip is traced, still eastwardly,
towards the centre of Asia and the Indian Ocean. Also, that in

equal spaces on a meridian, greater changes of intensity take
       in                             of America   and New Holland than in
place  of  tEhuerolponeg. itudItesis  unnecessary  to dwell on the accordance
those

which these facts present with the inferences drawn from the
configuration of the lines of dip and variation, of the action of
four points of directing influence.
   To ohtain the approximate situations of these four points,
M. Hansteen constructed two maps of the polar regions of the
globe on a polar projection. (Plate 3.) On the south-polar map,
the variations observed by Cook and Furneaux in their voyages
of 1773 and I??4 are represented by arrows, indicating the an
gles made by the compass needle with the geographical meridian.
On the nortl -polar map are represented, in like manner, the va
riations observed in the northern hemisphere by Cook, Phipps,
Lowenhorn, Schubert, Billings, and others, from 1769 to 1805.
The head of the arrow marks the place of observation, and its
direction is that of the compass-needle, so that the angle which
it makes with the meridian is the observed variation. In the
map of the south-polar region, all the arrows between the me
ridians of 60° E. and 140° E. are perceived to have nearly an
uniform convergency : their directions prolonged would all in
tersect somewhere about 135° E., and 69° or 70° S. latitude : and
all the arrows comprised between the meridians of 240° E. and
320° E. are convergent to a second point of intersection, situ
ated about 240° E. and 78° S. ; whilst in the spaces intermediate

betweeu the meridians where the arrows are thus respectively
convergent, the magnetic directions have no point of common

convergence ; the arrows prolonged do not intersect ; all point,
intermediately between the two positions of directing influence ;
but the particular direction of each arrow appears to be deter
mined by its relative proximity to one or other of the directing
points, the influence of which predominates accordingly in the di
rection assumed by the compass-needle.
M. Hansteen computes by spherical trigonometry the lati
tude and longitude of the mean points of intersection of the two
converging portions of the observations represented by the ar

rows: the one to the south of New Holland is in 136° 15' E. and
69° 27' S. ; the other, to the south of Terra del Fuego, is in 236°
43' E. and 77° 17' S.; the observations employed in these de

ductions were made in the years 1773 and 1774.
Looking next to the map of the north-polar region, we find
//->>A//A/                e

-ti,.                        >f
                              >
     liV'                    --

            >        i

osL --                        -

ih                        i
                           t
<4
               Lr
 «w ? 'd
ON THE PHENOMENA OF TERRESTRIAL MAGNETISM. 69

again two points of convergence : one, of the observations in the
northern parts of America comprised between the meridians of

230° E. and 2S0° E., which, computed by spherical trigonometry,
is in 259° 58' E. and 70° 17' N., corresponding to the year 1769,
and to a mean of all the intersections ; the other, for the obser
                                                          70° E. and
vations in the North  of  Asia, between the meridians of
                          and 85°43'N., corresponding      also to a
130° E., in 101° 29'  E.

mean of all the intersections of observations of the year 1769.
Here also the arrows in the intermediate spaces, viz. between

130° E. and 230° E., and between 290° E. and 70° E. (passing
through 360°), have no point of common convergency ; but their
direction appears to be determined by one or other of the influ
ential points, according to proximity.
   We trace, then, by means of the polar maps four principal
points of convergence in the direction of the magnetic needle ;
two in the southern hemisphere, designated by M. Hansteen

A and a, and two in the northern hemisphere, B and b. Those
in the southern hemisphere correspond to the year 1774, when

A' was situated in 136° 15' E. and 69°27'S.; and a in 236° 45' E.
and 77°17'S. Those in the northern hemisphere to the year
1769, when B was in 259° 58' E.  and       17' N.,  and b  in
29' E., and 85°43'N.                  70°                      101°

These points are called by M. Hansteen simply "points of
convergence". Each is considered by him to mark the vicinity
of a magnetic pole ; the mode of deducing the positions of the
poles from those of the points of convergence is a subject of
discussion in a subsequent chapter.

  M. Hansteen next proceeds to inquire whether these points
of convergence appear to be stationary, or otherwise ; whether
they are equally the points of intersection of the directions of
the compass-needle observed in the same localities, but at other
dates than those above stated. The observations recorded in the

appendix furnish him with the place of A corresponding to the
year 1642 ; of a to 1586 and 1670; of B to 1725 ; and of b to
1594 and 1805. The result in every case shows that the points

are not stationary; the earlier observations concur uniformly
in making the intersections, in the northern hemisphere to the
westward, and in the southern hemisphere to the eastward, of

the later observations.
Neither the degree of exactness of the earlier observations, nor
the intervals elapsed between them and the later ones, are suffi
cient to warrant any very decided inference of the periods in
which each or any of the points would complete the circle of all
the meridians. The periods indicated are, however, as follows :
A 4609 years; a 1304 years; B 1740 years ; and b 860 years.
70 FIFTH REPORT -- 1835.

It further appears that A and B recede from, and a and b, on

the contrary, approach, the geographical poles respectively ad
jacent to each.

   We may conceive the poles corresponding to A and B (which

are the points of more powerful directive influence in each he
misphere) to belong to one magnetic axis, and the poles corre
sponding to a and b to another magnetic axis, subject to the fol
lowing conditions; viz. that the two northern poles have an
eastward motion, and the two southern a westward motion ; that
in each axis the north pole has a considerably quicker motion

than the south pole ; that both poles A and B of the one mag

netic axis recede from, and that both poles a and b of the other
axis approach, the adjacent geographical poles ; and lastly, that
the axes prolonged are not diameters, but chords ; they could
only be diameters for a moment, on account of the opposite mo

tion of the opposite poles ; and then only if it should also hap

pen that each end of the axis is at the same time at equal di
stance from its adjacent pole of the earth*.

   In introducing the supposition of two magnetic axes, M. Han-
steen carefully guards against being understood to affirm the
existence of such, or as having any purpose beyond that of sug
gesting a convenient mode of connecting together and represent
ing the facts made known by observation. So far from deciding
on, he does not even discuss, the question, whether the causes
of terrestrial magnetism are to be sought within the globe, or
externally ; though it is apparent that his own opinion inclines
to the latter supposition. But with this understanding, he af
firms that all the phenomena hitherto made known by observa
tion admit of representation upon the supposition of two such

magnetic axes as are above described ; and he proceeds to ex
emplify this by showing the explanation such an hypothesis
affords of the changes of variation and dip in the maps of those
phienomena corresponding to different epochs.

    Reckoning back the positions of the points of convergence to
the year 1600, and viewing them in connexion with the map of
the variation for that year, we should have b in 83° N. and about

30° E., i. e. to the north-east of Spitsbergen ; and a to the south

west of Terra del Fuego ; at which time the axis a b was conse
quently much nearer the Atlantic than the Pacific. B, requiring
to be placed more westerly than its later situation, would be

    · We may imagine in each axis two principal epochs ; one when the two poles
should be in opposite meridians, and the other when they should both be in one
and the same meridian ; but in the first case the prolonged axes would still not
be diameters, because the opposite poles are at unequal distances, each from its
adjacent pole ef the earth.
        ON THE PHENOMENA OF TERRESTRIAL MAGNETISM. 71

found near Behring's Straits ; whilst A, moving in a contrary
direction, must be placed more to the east than by the later ob
servations ; and thus the axis A B will appear to have had pre
dominant influence in the Pacific at that period. The easterly
variation in the south part of the Atlantic would be chiefly due
to the weaker pole a, then to the south-west of Terra del Fuego ;
and the westerly variation in the Indian Ocean to the stronger pole
A, then south of Van Diemen's Land ; whilst near Cape Lagul-
lus the needle, equally attracted by both poles, would have, con
sequently, no variation. The westerly variation in Baffin's Bay
would be due to the stronger pole B, then in the North-west of
America. The easterly variation in Europe and in a part of the
Northern Atlantic, as well as the westerly variation at Nova
Zembla, to the weaker pole b, then north-east of Spitzbergen.
Why the needle showed no easterly variation at Spitzbergen
will not be perfectly explained till the theory of the dip is exami
ned : had the two poles been of equal force, such a variation
would have been found there.

   At an epoch antecedent to 1600, b must have been still more

to the west, near, for example, the east coast of Greenland ; at
which time we should infer that the easterly variation, which in
1600 overspread Europe, prevailed much further to the west :
and this is accordant with the evidence afforded by the earlier
observations of the variation at Paris ; in 1541 the variation there

was about 7° or 8° E.; in 1550 between 8° or 9° E.; about 1580

the easterly variation reached a maximum, which appears to have
been about 11° 30*. From these facts we may conclude, that at
a still earlier period than 1541, the easterly variation must have
been less and less as we go further back, till about 1450, when
it must have passed through zero into westerly variation. Turning
now to the map of variation in 1600, we should say, in explana
tion of these phenomena, that in 1450 the north-east branch of
the line of no variation passed through Paris ; that the variation
then became easterly, and increased till it reached a maximum
in 1580, when it again decreased till 1666, in which year the
north-west branch of the line of no variation passed through Pa
ris. The pole b, continuing to move to the east, was followed
by the whole system of easterly variations then observed in Eu
rope, and which have now reached, and are found in the recent
maps in, Siberia ; whilst B, in the mean time, slowly approaching
Europe, has caused an increasing westerly variation, which will
hereafter decrease as B moves to the eastward towards the me
ridians of Europe. In the United States of America the decrease
of the westerly variation will precede that in Europe ; before
another half-century B will have passed to the eastward of the
72 FIFTH REPORT -- 1835.

meridians of America, and the variation will have become, first

zero, and then easterly.
   As a moved south-westward in the Pacific, it must have been

followed by the lines of easterly variation in the Southern Atlan
tic ; and the westerly variation shown in the Indian Ocean in
the map of 1600, must have progressed to the westward as a re

ceded, and A advanced.
The motion of the small system of westerly variation from
North-east Asia in 1770 and 1787) towards Corea and Japan
where it was found in 1805, is explained by the eastern progress
of A.
Our knowledge of the lines of variation in the Pacific is con

fined to recent dates : the phenomena, however, as represented
in the map of 1787 and in subsequent maps, are in all particulars
accordant with the explanation of them afforded by the hypothesis
of two magnetic axes.
   Viewing next the phenomena of the dip, we may infer that
the south dip in South America decreases, because a is moving
further into the Pacific ; and the north dip in Europe decreases,
because b is moving further eastward in Siberia. The great dips
(from 84|° to 89£c) observed by Hudson at and near the North
Cape and Nova Zembla in 1608 were occasioned by the vicinity
of b, which was, at that epoch, to the north-east of Spitzbergen.
In Europe the dip will shortly again increase as B approaches
our part of the world. The north dip in China increases, and
the south dip in the same longitudes decreases, because b ap
proaches the meridians of that quarter ; and for the same reason
the line of no dip, which was observed by Cunningham in the
Chinese Sea in 20° north latitude in 1700, is now found con

siderably to the south of that parallel.
   Proceeding next to consider the intensity of the magnetic force

at different parts of the earth's surface corresponding to the two
magnetic axes, we must first remember that the axes are supposed
to be chords, and that in their presentposition they are both nearer
to the surface of the Pacific than to that of the opposite hemi
sphere, i. e.                           of Europe and    Africa.               A line
drawn from     than to the continents   perpendicularly    on the              axis A
               the centre of the earth

B,and prolonged, wouldmeettheearth'ssurfaceat a point in about

197c E., and near the equator. This would be the nearest point
on the earth's surface to the middle of the stronger axis ; and a
point 180° from i.e. about 17° E., (on the continent of Africa,
not far from the Bight of Benin,) would be the point on the earth's
               it,

                    a

                                                    if

                                                                            ;
surface most distant from the middle of that axis and here ne

cessarily would be the minimum of intensity this axis were
the only one. But line drawn from the earth's centre perpen
ON THE PHENOMENA OF TERRESTRIAL MAGNETISM. 73

dicularly on the weaker axis a b, and prolonged, would meet the
surface in about 217° E. ; this point would be the nearest to, and
a point 180° from it, or about 37° E., near the east coast of Africa,
would be the most distant from, the middle of the axis a b, and
icfonasbequweenrtelytheaboountly3a7x°isE. .  would be
                                             Hence it  the minimum of intensity
                                                       follows that the point of
minimum intensity in the line of no dip resulting from both axes,
                        Africa                                        of 17°  E.
must be   somewhere in  point,               between the two points  a curve
and 37°                                      then, we may imagine             to
         E. From this
commence, passing northward through Europe, and southward
through Africa, and cutting every line of dip at its point of mini
mum intensity. This curve, prolonged through all the lines of
dip, would at length pass into the points where the dip is 90°,
where the character of the curve would change from the curve of
minimum to the curve of maximum intensity in the several lines
of dip, which it would successively intersect till it again reached

the geographical equator at some intermediate point between the

meridians of 197° E. and 217° E., which are the points of greatest
intensity of the two axes respectively, on the line of no dip.

   At the date of publication of M. Hansteen's work there ex
isted very few observations of the intensity with which to com
pare the system of intensities here presented. Those which did
exist were, however, conformable to it. The intensities under

equal dips diminished from the west side of America (beyond
which, on the side of the Pacific, no observations had been
made,) to the coasts of Europe and Africa ; where the existence
of a minimum must be supposed, since, in proceeding still further

to the eastward, the force was again found to increase, under dips
of the same amount.
In the fourth chapter, M. Hansteen passes under examination
Euler's investigation of the mathematical theory of the lines of
variation due to a single magnetic axis under various assumed
conditions. Of these, the fifth case discussed by Euler is, when
the poles of the axis are in different meridians, and at different
distances from the poles of the earth. This case meets precisely
the present conditions of both the axes in M. Hansteen's hypo
thesis. Having premised Euler's formulae in this case, he em
ploys them in calculating successively the lines of variation cor

responding to each of the axes A B and a b, in the positions they

are supposed to have occupied in the year 1769. These lines
are delineated on maps of both hemispheres, exhibiting separately

the variation corresponding to each axis. These maps are then
compared with the map showing the actual phenomena in the
year 1770 5 and the result of the comparison may be summed up
as follows : 1st, The variation computed from the axis A B agrees
74 FIFTH REPORT 1835.

extremely well with the actual variation in the neighbourhood of
Hudson's Bay and Straits, and in the Southern Indian Ocean be
tween New Holland and the Cape of Good Hope ; that is to say,
in places which are in the immediate vicinity of one or other of
the poles of that axis. 2nd, The variations computed from the
weaker axis a b represent, but not so perfectly as in the prece
ding case, the variations observed in the neighbourhood of its
poles in South America and in Siberia. Hence we perceive, that
in those localities where the force of each pole might be expected
respectively to predominate, Euler's lines of variation calculated
for the axis of that pole accord with the phaenomena. 3rd, The
greater the distance that any point on the earth's surface is from
the poles of either axis, the less the observations are repre
sented by either system of lines taken separately. Thus, in the

eastern hemisphere, we ought to have for the axis A B a line of
25° west variation, passing through Northern Spain, Southern
France, Germany, Prussia, Finland, and Russian Lapland; whilst
from the weaker axis a b we should expect an easterly variation
of from 6° to 7° in Spain, 10° in Finland, and 12° in Lapland.
The combined influence of both axes should then produce a va
riation, in Spain, between the limits of 25° W. and 16° E. ; in
Finland, between 25° W. and 10° E.; and in Lapland, between
25° W. and 12° E. Now the variation map of 1770 shows in
Spain 20° W., in Finland 5° to 6° W., and in Lapland 0. The
nearer either pole of the axis a b is approached, the more the ob
served variation differs from that which would be given by the

axis A B, and approximates to that which is due to the axis a b.
In the western hemisphere the line of no variation computed from
a b passes south-west of the Californian Sea to the intersection
of the meridian of 243° E. with the latitude 15° S., from whence
its course is more southerly towards the pole a. In the map of
the variation in 1770, there is an obvious relation in the configu
ration of the lines of variation in the Pacific to this line of no
variation due to the axis a b. Nowhere on the line is the actual

variation in Btrict accordance with   it,  the nearest approach
being 2° E. the difference occasioned       by
:                                               the influence of the
          ;

              B
                           it

                                  is
stronger pole A. To the westward of this line, the axis ab
                                                  if

acted alone, the variation would have been westerly, but the ef
fect of the stronger pole predominates as         approached. Near
                                           it
                                              is

New Zealand A would give between 20° and 25° E., and «      bb
15° W. the map shows 15° E. At Behring's Strait A would
                                                      aB
give a somewhat greater easterly variation than shown by theis

map of 1770; and here the neighbourhood of the weaker pole
draws the north pole of the needle to the westward. On close
and careful examination, will be found general rule, that the
                                           a
ON THE PHENOMENA OF TERRESTRIAL MAGNETISM. 75

variations shown by observation fall between the limits assigned
by the consideration of each axis taken separately. There are
two exceptions to this rule, which are in Java, and from Mex
ico to the Isthmus of Panama. But these apparent anomalies
are also capable of being explained, and disappear when a cor
rection is introduced, which M. Hansteen points out in Euler's
investigation, which in certain cases slightly affects the calcula
tions here made in strict accordance with Euler's formulae ; and

when the true magnetic poles are substituted in the calculation
for the points of convergence, which have hitherto been consider
ed as coincident with them.
In concluding this chapter, M. Hansteen remarks, that as the
curves of variation computed on the hypothesis of two magnetic
axes either represent well the actual                         ofar lla,s--siganndthaes
limits within which the observations            phaenomena,
                                                are found to
lefionxuepsrlaimonfeadgdnipeb,ty--ic thapneodlmeasostsitouhnfefsicaialetbneotrvlayetiodenexsspcloariifbnevdatrhioeaftdiotohnuebfaloenudfrlepdxoipulereasr,e--offuatlnhlyde
anse,tilcasatlxyi,s,t--hewpehameanyomceonnasidoef rthtehiisntheynpsiotytheinsidsicattoebae
                                                                                            double   mag
                                                                                            as well  esta

blished, as a means of representing the phuenomena, as any hypo
                                                physical illustration.
thesis whatsoever    iennttriotdleudce"d    in  the Theory of Magnets."                              Hav
   Chapter fifth is                       On

ing shown that when two magnetic points act on each other,
their mutual action, whether of attraction or repulsion, is the
product of the absolute magnetic force of the two points into some
function of their distance apart, M. Hansteen proceeds to inves
tigate the elementary laws which regulate the action of a linear

magnet upon a magnetic point situated, first, in the prolongation
of its axis; second, in the perpendicular passing through its cen
tre, or its equator. The action depends in both cases, first, on
the distance of the point from the centre of the magnet ; second,

(and particularly if the distance be inconsiderable in proportion
to the length of the magnet,) on the distribution of the magnetic
intensity in the magnet itself. These, therefore, form the sub
ject of two elementary laws, deduced from experiments, which
consist in drawing a small compass-needle from its line of repose
in the magnetic meridian by a linear magnet, placed horizontally,

at different distances in succession, from four to twelve times the

half axis of the magnet, in a line through the centre of the needle
perpendicular to the magnetic meridian, and in noting the dis
placements occasioned thereby in the direction of the compass-
needle. The displacements so occasioned are then compared
with computed expressions, in which the influence of the mag
net is considered to vary inversely, first, as the distance itself;
16 FIFTH REPORT -- 1835.

second, as the square ; and third, as the cube, of the distance of
the magnetic point from the centre of the magnet : and in which
the distribution of the intensity along the magnetic axis is con
sidered to vary, first, as the simple distance of the particles from
                                                 the square ; and third, as
the middle point   ;    second, as               by the comparison, first, as  the cube
of that distance.                                                               regards
                      It is shown
the distance of the magnetic point and the centre of the magnet,

that when the displacements are computed in the inverse propor
tion of the simple distance or of the cube, they differ widely from

those observed; but that when computed as the squares, the ac
cordance of calculation and experiment is satisfactory through
out the series. Second in regard to the distribution of the in

tensity along the magnetic axis, that the agreement is best in
these experiments when the magnetic intensity of the particles is
taken as the square of the distance from the middle point of the

magnet.
The experiments, therefore, indicate the following elementary

laws, viz.

1. That tfie attractive force with which two magnetic points
influence each other is inversely as the square of their

    distance apart.
2. That the force in the axis of a linear magnet increases as

   the square of the distance from the middle point; or, that
the absolute intensity of each point in the axis is pro
portional to the square of its distance from the magnetic

centre.

The first law is the same which was originally derived by
Mayer from experiments communicated to the Royal Society of
Sciences at Gottingen ; it has been since confirmed by other
                      is in full                             with
philosophers,  and                               accordance        the   experiments  of

M. Hansteen.
A corroboration of the second law is considered to be obtained
from other experiments, subsequently related, in which two li
near magnets were employed for the purpose of examining the
laws of their mutual action. M. Hansteen also notices the ex
periments of Professor Steinhausen, which lead to the same in
ference. He concludes, therefore, that there is at least strong
probability in favour of the second law ; and as, moreover, that
lparwoacishionnglycoofntimacpt,or--taanncde
                                             in  small   distances from  the magnet, ap
                                             as  in its  application to  the phenomena

of terrestrial magnetism the distances are always so considerable
as to render almost imperceptible the effect of differences in the
distribution of intensity in its magnet itself, its adoption on this
occasion cannot give rise to any material error, even if it should
not ultimately prove to be the true law.
ON THE PHENOMENA OF TERRESTRIAL MAGNETISM. 77

Proceeding then from these laws, M. Hansteen pursues the

following investigations, based upon them, viz.
   The line of repose of an infinitely small magnetic needle within
       the sphere of action of a linear magnet.
   The dip of the magnetic line of repose towards the surface of
       a sphere, having in its centre an infinitely small linear

    magnet.
The same, the magnet being eccentric.
The situations of dip 0 and dip 90°, with the intermediate

   lines of dip, in the two cases, first, when the magnet is in
   the centre of the sphere ; second, when it is eccentric.
The magnetic intensity, and the isodynamic lines in both the

    preceding suppositions.
The action of a magnet, being in shape a parallelogram, upon

   a magnetic point in the prolongation of its axis, and in its

    equator.
The action of a cylindrical magnet upon a magnetic point in

    the prolongation of its axis, and in its equator.
                                                                "cAopntpaliinceadtioinn
    Upou these investigations are          founded   problems
the succeeding or sixth chapter,           which is  entitled

of the Theory of Magnets to the Theory of the Dip, Variation,
and Force, at any given place of the earth's surface of known

geographical position."
Suppose a fig. ., single magnetic axis in the interior of
          B,;

             is
                 fi,

                                    1

                                    a

                                            it
the earth its prolongation, till meets the surface of the earth,
forms A     the magnetic chord, of which A and are the extre
mities. It
              possible that the centre of the chord y, the mathe
                                                         B

                                                                        is
matical centre of the magnet, and its neutral point (or the point
in which the opposite forces are equal, and where there con
sequently neither attraction nor repulsion), might be three dif
ferent points but they are at present considered to coincide all
            E;
               B
                 F

                            is
                                  a
three in y, the centre of the chord.
The circle  A great circle passing through C, the

centre of the earth, and the magnetic chord.             C          the eccen
                                                           y
                                                                is

tricity of the chord. The magnetic equator               is     great circle
                                                             a

passing through the centre of the earth, perpendicular to the
magnetic chord, and passing through its centre                  its poles are
                                                         y

                                                             :

Ifa and the extremities of diameter of the earth parallel to
b,                                   the magnetic axis were not eccentric,

    C
       y
            is

            B

                                        a
the magnetic chord.
and the chord passed through the centre of the earth, its ex
                                                         b,
tremities A and would coincide with a and the poles of the
magnetic equator. The                      of the earth being unity, the ec
                         radius            arcs A a and
centricity  the sine     of the                          B      which measure

                                                             b

the distance between the ends of the magnetic chord and the

poles of the magnetic equator.
7S FIFTH REPORT 1835.

  E F is a magnetic diameter         of the   earth  padsisstinagnt,tharonudgFh  y;
E is the point on the earth's        surface   most                              the

                            Fig. l.

point least distant, from the centre of the magnetic chord ; or

the apocentric and pericentric points.
Every plane section of the earth passing through the mag
netic chord is a magnetic meridian : all of which are small
                            EBF      A,  which
circles  except the first,                      passes through the apo
centric  and pericentric    points.      AeB    is a magnetic meridian,

and e its point of intersection with the magnetic equator. The
first meridian passes through the ends of the magnetic chord,
the poles of the magnetic equator, and the apocentric and peri
centric points. When the chord has no eccentricity there is no
first meridian determined by nature.
Every plane passing through the axis of the magnetic equator
is a magnetic vertical circle : every place has its own, and all
are great circles. Were there no eccentricity in the magnetic

axis, every magnetic meridian would be a magnetic vertical

circle.

The magnetic polar colure is a great circle passing through
the poles of the earth and those of the magnetic equator. The
diametral colure is a great circle passing through the poles of
the earth and the apocentric and pericentric points. Thus in
ON THE PHENOMENA OF TERRESTRIAL MAGNETISM. 79

PFfig. 2, in which P p are the poles of the earth, P N p M is the
polar colure, and  p the diametral colure. A B and a b are

                   Fig. 2.                                   J
                      P

as in fig. I, and the great circle passing through them is the first
magnetic meridian. Q F R is the magnetic equator cutting the
geographical equator M N in E, the pole of the polar colure ;

PB/> and PA/> are geographical meridians passing through
the ends of the magnetic chord.

  If Lin fig. 1. be a place on the earth's surface of known geo
Lgraphical position, y is its magnetic radius, or a line drawn
Lfrom the place to the centre of the magnetic chord ; y e is its
Ltrue magnetic latitude, or the angle formed by its magnetic ra

dius and the magnetic equator ; y B is its true magnetic polar
distance ; E y e is its true magnetic longitude, or the angle be

Ltween the magnetic meridian of and the first magnetic meridian.
BLeA being its magnetic meridian, a perpendicular C c to the
Lmagnetic equator from C                            centre of the   meridian, Cc
                                                         c is then  the eccentric
its eccentricity, and L c
                   gives c the
                   its radius.

LCQ;twmmLhiaaetIgghannnmneetdfahittgiigecct.nh3meelltaa.aimc4ttgiittnLauueegdQdqtneeiuceatoitimscmof reaeLaremisinqdiunauiragQtaeenntdroCecrtea,oi;cptftoecLvLr,derRtitt;hoiceniitasshletethtchhcecaeieerrcvncilaentenrrLtitegcitcrlhQesarceloeciusntcigtiotrrhnhcele.eLoa,bfpceEputbawtrQLteeiennQingts
the apparent magnetic longitude, or the arc of the magnetic
Lequator intercepted between E, the apocentric point, and the
vertical  mb aLg,noerticthecirpcllaenepaasnsignlge  through     ; or it is the spheric

angle E                                             E C Q.
so FIFTH REPORT 1835.
   The relations which these several quantities bear to each other,

and the deduction, when they are known, of the angles which

                                                        Fig. 3.

the horizontal needle will make with the geographical meridian,
aud the needle freely suspended (the dipping-needle, for example)
with the horizon of a place, are shown in the first six problems
of this chapter. Problems 7 and 8 contain the deduction of the
dip, variation, and force at any given point of the surface of a
 sphere which has two such magnetic axes, the geographical po
 sitions of which are known, as well as the proportion between
their absolute forces. The 9th and 10th problems show the
method of deducing the proportion between the absolute forces of
 the axes, when the situation and length of the axes are known,
 and either the dip or the variation is observed.

    The expressions by which the values may be found of the
ON THE PHENOMENA OF TEURESTRIAL MAGNETISM.                                                                                    81

several quantities treated of in these problems, collected in one
view, are subjoined.
In these expressions
     a = Aa = Bb = the arc between the ends of the magnetic
                 chord and           the poles of the magnetic equator.
         8  =                        angle between the first magnetic meridian
                Yb F = the

         NER=PJj and the polar colure.

           = = the angle between the geographic and
         (=MPAmagnetic equators.

                         = the geographical longitude of the north pole
                of the magnetic equator.
                      = the angle of the magnetic
         LCci) =                                                          meridian                              with the
                horizon.
LLQyR zLCQ=EycL90° --=                                               t
            =
fi90°--     =   Eb   =                               the apparent magnetic                                      latitude,
                       =                  apparent magnetic longitude.
  vPLPL90°- =                        the
                       = the true magnetic longitude.
^           =         = the true magnetic latitude.
w           =   Lee  = the eccentric magnetic latitude.
                     = the geographical colatitude.
v           --  M        = the geographical longitude reckoned east
p

q

                ward.
         i = dh a1 (fig. 1.) = the oblique dip ; or the angle of the
                magnetic line of repose and the tangent to the mag
                netic meridian.
»=              z«'LM(fig.
                                          1.).            angle  of  the  magnetic                              vertical
A=              ZALP (fig.                3.) the

R=LM            circle, and the geographical meridian of L.

                  c = the radius of the magnetic meridian.
and M' =. the absolute forces of the two axes.
Fj _ J j jIM=                                                    M'F'=
D           =   the force! at a given                         I                <("tthiteiessameduqeuant-o
            =   variation > place due to                      |  D7 =
  c         =                                                    I' = |^the other axis,
                the dip one axis.                         of  the two axes.
D           =   the angle of the forces                                                                         of(,tthe t, wo

                the  variation")          due tto nth.e compound               act*i,on
                      yI
                .t
K JZ the force
                                                axes'

                                          Formulae.
                                                sins, cos . cos
1 . sin     = cos . sin              p                        p      6         -- £).
2. cot   A (v ft,                         (q +
3. cot       +                                                             [q

                     8)
                               se
                                  .
                    = cos cot                   (q      -- -- sm · tanja . cosec                                              -- ?).
            = cot cosec --
                                                   ZJ)    coup -- sin cot -- £),
                                     e                 .  K)                                                    (q
                                       .                                                                                  (q

                                                                     p

                                                                         .

4. . cot. . =        sin a.                     cotv.

R
      $

      V

                    1
                               /x
                                        :

                                   +v
                                              2 (-
                                                    g

                                                                                       /.x
                                                                                                       v
                                                                                                            .·
                cos . sin

5. =               -f sin, «                    sin a . cos cos
  1835.
82 FIFTH REPORT -- 1835,

6 cos,¡ = sin a . sin <p.
7. COS It = sin ¡Í

8. cost-            sin JA

                    Sill r,                                                               )Z      *
                    (A + B cos 2 u + C cos 4 u + . . .) sin 2                              :~N
                -~                                                                                  '
                        A' + B' cub 2 n + C'o»4« + ..
10. i = v -- ai.

11. F = Z . cos cu 4- toN . sin = Z . see w = N cosec cu.

12. sin/= tan /x . cot)1.
13. tan g = tan i . cos r¡.
A-I14. sin = sin / . sin t¡.
15. D =             (f + g).
16. cosec c = sin I . sin 1' + cos I . cos I' . cos (D -- D').
·17. K=             FM9 F2 + (M' F)2 + 2 M M' F . cos c.
/ K18. sin = MF I. sin + . M'F . sin I'

* (Formula 9). A, B, C, &c., and A', B', C, &c., are coefficients supplied

If Jby the                                                             of --, -- ---.
\t---y      followingD table, according° to different values                              axi-s.        or
py                                                                            5 magnetic               ra-
            f . Q is the coefficient of the axis of the
        =r                                                             magnet to r the earth's

dins, then is L y = r R = Q R . /3 y :              therefore  --^     =  0=      Q R.
                                                               /3y

e= 2 2-5 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10

            0, 0,0 0,0 0,0                0,00 0.00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,000

A=          10738 51527  29012    119711 60768 35018 21999             14716      10325 75216 -\     0
B=           5292 I617H    6308    14602 4738 1895 871                    448        248 1464        E
C=           123fi 2416      653       849 176 49 17                                                 =
                                                                              17           a 14

Dz= 287 360                  67   49      6         1                                             Í
E = 63 52                      1    3
K=
            13      7

Í7B'= 109GO 52845 29647 121454 61374 35269 22118 14776 10359 75420
A'= 03855 18196 10104 040988 20619 11820 07402 04941 03461 25188

C"= 2633 8153 3184                7357    2382      951        438     221        124     733        aa
                                   426         88     19            6      2           1      5
D'= 609 1208 328                      25         3       1                                           0
                                                                                                     0
nE'= 140 179 34
rG'= 7 4
F'= 32 41                    3    1
ON THE PH.ENOMENA OF TERRESTRIAL MAGNETISM. 83

--i1n9. cot* o = MiC|'r=tjjMF   .  ^COS  I         --  =,r  +   cot,  .,,  --  LTMV.)'.
                           fI  .                       D')            (D
20. D = D -- o..   cos             stn   (D

The 7th chapter is occupied in an endeavour to assign more ex
actly the situation of the magnetic poles, the length of the mag
netic axes, and their relative force in M. Hansteen's hypothesis.
   Reverting to the four points of convergence found in the 3rd
chapter, M. Hansteen shows that they are not identical with
the situations of the ends of the magnetic chords. They would
         if the three following conditions were                 fu3Ilfrfditl,lheeIdf,htovhrieziz.mon1atsgat,l
be so
         earth had but one magnetic axis ; 2nd,
If the   were always in the magnetic meridian ;

needle

netic meridians were all great circles. Unless these three con
ditions are fulfilled, the points of convergence must differ more
or less from those points where the magnetic axis prolonged
meets the earth's surface.

  In the case of a single eccentric magnetic axis, the point of
convergence belonging to each pole will fall in the first meridian
between the extremity of the prolonged axis and the pericentric
point. In the case of two such axes, the points of convergence
will differ still more from the extremities of the chords : and the
         foofrcdeifsferoefnctehewiallxedse.penIdf
amount                                             on the positions and propor
tionate                                            the points of convergence are

derived from observations made in the vicinity of the poles of
the stronger axis, the deduction of the geographical situation of
the magnetic chord may be made with the less uncertainty, be
cause the intensity of that pole will predominate considerably
over the influence of the weaker axis ; but that axis will still

£
                                     is

                                              if,
                                                            is
have a sensible disturbing influence as probable, the length
of the axis of the magnet less than half that of the earth's

radius.
M. Hansteen here remarks that the study of the phenomena
thus far has placed beyond question their entire inconsistency
with single magnetic axis that has further manifested their
a
                  ;

                         it

                                          ;

                                            it
general accordance with such an arrangement of the lines of dip,
variation, and intensity as would follow on an hypothesis of two

magnetic axes but       has given as yet no precise knowledge
of any of the particulars of these axes except their number.
Their exact situation, their length, and other dimensions, as
well as the proportion of their forces, yet remain to be de
duced. Their length determinable were their situation and
                   is

                                       2

                                                              is
relative force exactly known. Their relative force would be
deducible did we know their position and their length. But
the preliminary determination of their situation
                                                                           by no means
easy to be accomplished. There are no less than eleven imper
                                                    g
84 FIFTH REPORT 1835.

fcctly known values, each of which influences the direction of the
needle ; and in the present still imperfect state of our knowledge
of the phenomena themselves, it docs not appear possible to

determine precisely how great is the influence due to each. It is

possible, however, to assign approximate values ; and by com

paring the results computed with these with the observed phe

nomena continually to approximate within narrower limits. It
is true that a final determination must await more exact and mul

tiplied observations ; but those which have been already obtained
are sufficient to show that the three phenomena of variation,

dip, and intensity, observed indiscriminately over the whole sur
face of the globe, do admit of a very approximate representation,
on the supposition of two magnetic axes, with such values as

may at present be assigned.

   To obtain such approximate values, the points of convergence
found for the year 1775 were in the first instance assumed as
the ends of the magnetic chords. Combining these with the
dip observed in Hudson's Bay by Hutchins, and in Petersburg
by Kraft, it appeared, after repeated trials, in which the length
of  the magnetic axis was taken successively
of  the earth's axis, that were the positions    as  £, £, ^, &c.> to T'w
                                                     the points of con
                                                 of

vergence those of the ends of the magnetic chords, the propor
tion of y1^ of the earth's axis for that of the magnet would best
accord with the dips observed in high magnetic latitudes : and
as the result of calculations made with an axis so small in pro
portion as T\y scarcely differs in the majority of instances from
those made with an infinitely small axis, and as the latter sup
position is the more convenient in calculation, it was thought
e,
    8,

                                 it,
preferable to assume until more correct places could be de
duced for the ends of the magnetic chords. The values of a,
    &c. were then deduced for both axes, as well as the peri
centric point and poles of the magnetic equator for each axis.
The geographical situation was then calculated of the two points
where the magnetic equators would intersect each other these
points would necessarily be opposite points on the globe andif
                                                                                    ;
                                                                                       ;
at them        obvious that the dip, whether influenced by one or
         it
             is                                  consequently, without reference to the
                              0

                                              :
other axis, should be

dimensions, the relative forces, or the eccentricity of the axes,
and provided only that the mathematical and magnetical centres

of each axis respectively are the same, there should be on the
globe two points precisely opposite to each other where the dip
               and two such points should accordingly be found
should be  ;0

on the observed line of no dip. Now we refer to the map
of the dip for 1780, we find that there are two points in the line
of no dip opposite to each other on the earth's surface, viz. in
     ON THE PH/ENOMENA OF TERRESTRIAL MAGNETISM. 85

4° 2(y N. and S. latitude, and in 14° and 194° E. longitude. Cal

culated from the hypothetical elements above stated, they should

be in 3° 55 N. and S. latitude, and in 6° 56' and in 186° 56' E.
longitude. The differences 0° 25' of latitude and 7° 4' of lon
gitude show that the errors of the elements of calculation are
not very great even on the first approximation. We may here
perceive the particular value which would attach to careful ob
servations in the line of no dip in the vicinity of these two
geographical positions ; in the means afforded of correcting the
situation of the poles of the magnetic equators.

   M. Hansteen next proceeds to deduce more correctly the si
tuation of the terminations of the magnetic chords, and to sub
EBFAstitute these for the points of convergence hitherto employed
instead of them. To explain this, let                          (fig. 4.) be a section
of the earth in the plane of the first magnetic meridian, having an
                   small magnet in y, of         which   C y measures
cinitfyini;teAly  B is the prolongation          of the  magnetic axis  the   eccentri
                                                                         or   the mag
netic chord ; ab a diameter parallel to it ; and r r1 points where
Ifthe magnetic line of repose is perpendicular to the surface, or
where the dip is 90°.        the earth had but one magnetic axis,
and that eccentric, the two points of the dip 90° would fall in
the first magnetic meridian, each between the termination of
the magnetic chord and the pericentric point F. Now it may

easily be shown that when the eccentricity is sufficiently small
                  sine of the arc being taken for the
                                     or that the distance of
jAr= Jar';to admit of the                                               arc itself,
                                                 of                     the points
B4 = Ao=
                                                  If
where the dip is 90° from the poles                      the   magnetic equator is
equal to three times the eccentricity.                    now   we imagine the ar

rows to represent the directions of the needle freely suspended,
and further imagine the arrows to be brought down to a hori
zontal direction, as in the case of the compass needle by weight
                   end, all                                    and r    will   point in
ing  the upper    b r, and   the arrows between b               F in    the   direction
the  direction
                             all those between r and
F r ; and in like manner the arrows between F and r1 will point
(though with the other end) in the direction Fr', and those be
tween r1 and a in the direction a r1 ; consequently the points of
dip 90° (or r r1) will be also the points of convergence of the
horizontal needle : and the arc a. which measures the distance
between the poles of the magnetic chord and the poles of the
                  equator should be the arc b B or a A, and not the arc
bmragonretaic     which have been hitherto used for a.
               it r1,

                                              a
On the supposition of single magnetic axis then the proper
valueof a could be easily derivedfrom the value hithertoemployed,
of which would be just one third. But the points of conver
gence obtained in the third chapter were not the points due to
Sfi FIFTH REPORT -- 1835.
the influence of a single axis alone : although derived from ob
servations made very near to the respective points, still the ob-

                                                     Fig.4.

 servations were not entirely free, particularly in the vicinity of
 the points of the weaker axis, from the influence of the more
 distant axis. To obtain the points of convergence which should
 be due to each axis separately, M. Hansteen proceeded as fol
 lows : he selected certain of the most suitable observations of
 variation from which the situation of the points of convergence
 in the neighbourhood of the poles of the stronger axis were de
 termined, and computed the disturbing influence on them of the
 weaker axis, employing for that purpose the approximate ele
 ments of the weaker axis as already stated (except that a was
 taken at one third its former value), and assuming the proportion
 of the absolute forces of the axes to be as 2 to 1 . The direction
 of the needle that would be due to the influence of the stronger
 axis alone was thus obtained, and the intersections anew of the
 variations thus corrected gave fresh points of convergence,

 which if the elements of the weaker axis employed in the cal
ON TUB PHENOMENA OF TERRESTRIAL MAGNETISM. 87

culation were perfect, would be the correct positions of the       c',
points of convergence due to the stronger axis. The position               ;
of that axis being in this manner approximative^ gained, its
corrected situation was employed, in conjunction with the variait
tions observed near the poles of the weaker axis, in giving fresh
points of convergence for that axis ; the new position of whicha
axis was in its turn again employed in recorrecting the variations
observed near the stronger poles,-and in producing a still nearer
approximation to the position of the stronger axis. This alter
nating process was continued until the two last-found results ex
hibited no material difference.

    The approximate places of the extremities of the magnetic
chords having been thus found and substituted for the points of
convergence, and the values previously calculated of t, £, &c.
deduced afresh, M. Hansteen reverted to the observations of
dip in the high magnetic latitudes, from which he had previously
derived values for the length and proportionate forces of the mag
netic axes, and selecting several of the most trustworthy of these
observations, after various trials, he found that the observations
were best represented when the length of each of the axes was
taken at one third of the earth's axis, and the ratio of the forces
as 1-7724 to 1.

   With an axis of this length the points of 90° dip and of con
vergence of the horizontal needle would be nearer the end of
the magnetic chord than in the case of an infinitely small axis
and by trial was found that a. = 0"4l hr suited best. Other
small corrections, which were pointed out by the comparison of
the calculation and observations, were also introduced in several
of the elements.

   Having reached this stage M. Hansteen considered that the
elements were sufficiently corrected to admit of a more exten
sive comparison. He formed, therefore, table of the most trust
worthy observations of dip, variation, and intensity, made between
1787 and 1800, at eighty-four places, taken indiscriminately on
the earth's surface, and divided into three portions, magnetic
north polar, south polar, and equatorial. With the observations in
this table, the dip, variation, and intensity computed for each of
the eighty-four stations were compared, by which still further
but very small corrections were introduced in the elements.
The principal elements for computing the magnetic phenomena
thus corrected are as follow
c?

                  0

                                     :
«= Stronger Axis.                       Weaker Axis.

           3° 13'                          5° 30'

ess 29   51                              28 28
  = 291
                                         95 58 E. of Greenwich,
-- 129 49
                                         46 40
88 FIFTH REPORT 1835.

the magnetic axes being each one third of the length of the
earth's axis, or Q, = 3 ; and the ratio of the forces 1" 77 24 to 1.

   In comparing the phenomena as calculated by the aid of the

above quantities and as observed        tointhteheVaeriiagthiotyn-,f--outrhatat beuxlacteepdt
stations, it is seen, 1st, with regard
at places in the immediate vicinity of the magnetic poles no dis
cordance exists greater than about 5°. 2nd, In regard to the
Dip, that the differences are generally inconsiderable, and mostly
under 5°, except in    a strip of the Atlantic               from Tene-
riffe in a south-west  direction to about 14°   extending
                                                             and 313 E.
                                                N. latitude

longitude, and in a strip of the Indian Ocean extending from

the Straits of Babelmandel to the Indian Peninsula. In the At

lantic strip the calculated north dips are from 10° to 11° too
small, and in the strip in the Indian Ocean the calculated north

dips are about 10° or 12° too great, and the south dips as much

too small. 3rd, In regard to the Intensities, the observed and
calculated agree well, except in the aforesaid strip of the Atlan
tic, where the force as well as the dip is made too small by
calculation ; manifesting that the elements still require some
correction, which they will best receive when more observa
tions are obtained near the magnetic poles and along the line
of no dip.
The eighty-four stations which have served for the above
comparison extend over the most important parts of the earth's

surface, both near the magnetic poles and the magnetic equator,
and it is not probable that greater differences between the cal
culated and observed variations and dips will be found anywhere
than those which appear in the table.

   M. Hansteen remarks in conclusion that most of the differ
ences would diminish, if not wholly disappear, by increasing the
angle e, which the equatorial planes of the two magnetic axes
form with the geographical equator. By increasing the angle s
for the stronger axis the northerly dip in the northern part of
the Atlantic, and the southerly dip in the Indian Ocean would

increase, and the northerly dip consequently decrease between
the Red Sea and India. Further, the westerly variation in
Musketto Cove and in the Indian Ocean, near the Cape of
Good Hope, and the easterly variation between Van Diemen's
Land and New Zealand would increase. By increasing the
angle « for the weaker axis, the northerly dip in Petersburgh,
Siberia, and Kamschatka, and the southerly dip near Terra del
Fuego would increase ; and the westerly variation in Petersburgh
and at the North Cape, and the easterly variation in Kams
chatka would decrease, whilst                                near Terra
                               the easterly variation        this altera
del Fuego would increase. It   is also probable that
tion would increase the calculated intensities in the Northern
ON THE PHENOMENA OF TERRESTRIAL MAGNETISM. 89

Atlantic. These are the parts of the globe where the principal
differences take place between the calculated and the observed
phenomena ; but as the approximation has already been pushed
sufficiently far to sanction the hypothesis, it is deemed unne
cessary, and would probably be eventually time thrown away,
to press to a nearer accordance, until the situation of the four
points of convergence on the globe has been ascertained, with

greater precision, by direct observation.

Since the publication of the Magnetismiis der WeM. Han-
steen has been engaged in personally determining the lines
of dip, variation, and intensity, in the North of Europe, and
throughout the Asiatic dominions of Russia. It is understood
that he proposes to collect and embody, with the account of his
own observations which he is preparing, all that has been ac
complished by others since the early part of the present century ;
and thus to complete, in a second volume, the history of all that
Ihas been hitherto made known by observation concerning ter
restrial magnetism.     have deemed it the more proper course,
as well as that best fitted eventually to advance the inquiry, to
await this publication  from M. Hansteen, rather than
in this year's Report   and with the materials which   Ito attempt,
                                                          now pos
sess, or which are immediately accessible, the continuation of
Ithe condensed view which, by the aid of M. Hansteen's first

volume, have endeavoured to give of the results of observation
in the two preceding centuries. The knowledge of the facts,
conveyed by a suitably arranged view of what observation has
made known, is a proper preliminary to an examination of the hy

potIhtesisesa  proposed either to connect   or to explain the phenomena.
               remarkable coincidence,     and one of considerable im

portance towards a correct systematic knowledge of terrestrial
magnetism, that at the same epoch at which the vicinity of the
Siberian point of convergence has been visited by an observer

of M. Hansteen's experience, furnished with the most perfect in
struments, the other influential point in the northern hemisphere,
in the North of America, has been also approached in various
directions by the British officers employed in North-west disco
very : and thus the position of the lines of dip, variation, and
intensity in those two most interesting localities have been al
most simultaneously ascertained, with an exactness heretofore
unequalled. Those who have engaged in the endeavour to re
duce to a common epoch observations made at intervals of time
apart, can best appreciate how much of otherwise inevitable un
certainty is removed, when materials which should be rendered
strictly relative to each other for the purpose of combination,
90 FIFTH REPORT -- 1835.

correspond in date. It is known that the north dip is at present
diminishing in this part of the world about 3 minutes annually,
and that it has not differed materially from that rate of diminu
tion for several years past : but from a comparison of observa
tions we learn, that in the Gulf of Guinea the annual diminution
is little less than ten minutes, if it does not exceed that amount ;

whilst in the China Seas between the years 1700 and 1780 the
north dip, on the contrary, increased, and at an average annual
rate which could scarcely have fallen short of fifteen minutes, or
a quarter of a degree a year. Our knowledge as yet is very far
from being sufficient to enable us to render justly comparative
the observations of different years, except in a very few parts
of the globe.
   In the northern hemisphere we probably now possess the re
quisite materials for describing the magnetic curves, from obser

vations greatly to be relied on, and so nearly contemporaneous
as to occasion but little error in reduction. But it is far other

wise in the southern hemisphere, particularly in what are usually

called the high magnetic latitudes, and where an acquaintance
with the facts would be of principal value towards a knowledge
of the system of Terrestrial Magnetism. The enterprise of our
merchant seamen has shown that these latitudes are far mors

accessible, in certain meridians at least, than had been previously
supposed. The magnetic observations of the voyages of Weddell
and Biscoe have been confined to those of the variation ; these
fully confirm. M. Hansteen's position of the general westward
movement of the lines of equal variation, in the southern hemi
          --Binutthoitseiswhinichthienclmudeeridaiannds
sphere.                                                    left untouched by    those
vessels,                                                 are adjacent to those  mag
netic foci in the southern hemisphere, which M. Hansteen has
called points of convergence, that observations would be chiefly

useful ; and observations confined to the variation, but including
also the dip, and intensity of the force. The ice itself, or such
lands as might be discovered by a vessel coasting the southern ice

between the meridians of 80° E. and 260° E., would furnish the
requisite localities for the observations of the three phenomena ;
and would supply what is wanting to complete a map exhibiting
the arrangement, corresponding to a definite epoch, of the curves
of equal dip, variation, and intensity, over the whole surface of

our globe.
                                                          91

              RESEARCHES

UNDERTAKEN AT THE REQUEST OF THE ASSOCIATION.

Report on    the Comparative Measurement             of the Aberdeen
   Standard                                         Ireas. Royal So
             Scale. By Francis Baily,

ciety, Sfc.

AGREEABLY to the request of the British Association I
have compared the Aberdeen standard scale with the standard
scale of the Royal Astronomical Society : but, as in a matter
Iof this nicety and importance              did not wish the results to
Idepend on my own comparisons only, obtained the assistance
of Mr. Bryan Donkin, Lieut. M. Johnson, Mr. Thomas Jones,
and Mr. William Simms, all conversant with and much versed

in micrometrical measurements, and who kindly lent me every
assistance in their power.
The centre yard of the Aberdeen scale was chosen as the ob
ject of comparison with the centre yard of the Royal Astrono
mical Society's scale ; that being the portion of the latter scale
which had been directly compared with the Imperial standard
yard prior to its loss by fire, at the destruction of the two
houses of Parliament in November last. The following are the
results of 56 comparisons made by the several parties above
mentioned, and estimated in divisions of the micrometer mi
                                                    °' an inch,) and show
croscopes (each division denoting           ^ittiu
the number of such divisions by             which   the centre yard of the

Royal Astronomical Society's standard scale exceeds the centre
yard of the Aberdeen scale.

1835.               No. of Divisions of     Temp.              Observers.
                            Micr.
                    Comp.                           Baily.
                                                    Donkin.
Feb. 16.              8     26.56        '  48.6    Donkin and Johnson.
--                    8     27.74           46.4    Jones.
--           --18.  16      29.16           48.9    Simms.
-- 19.                8     27.09           45.8    Baily.
-- 20.                8                     45.3
                      8     27.65           46.2
                            26.93
                    56                      46.9
Mean =                      27.71
    92 FIFTH REPORT 1835.

    By which it appears that, from the mean of 56 comparisons,
    the centre yard of the Aberdeen scale is "0Q1385 inch (or
    about 7^iy of an inch) shorter than the centre yard of the Royal
    Astronomical Society's scale, at the temperature of about 47° of
    IFahrenheit's thermometer.
                                                       of the whole
          have also myself made 16 direct comparisons
    length of the same scales, namely 5 feet ; and have obtained the
    following results, viz.

    1835.      No. of Divisions of  Temp.                Observer.
               Comp.         Micr.
                                       o     Baily.
     July 23.    8           39.62   71.6
       -- 24.    8           39.21   72.7  }

    Mean =     10            39.43   73.6

        By which it appears that, from the mean of the 16 compari

    sons, the whole measure of the 5 feet Aberdeen scale is .001971

    inch (or about j.^ of an inch) shorter than the whole 5 feet of
    the Royal Astronomical Society's scale, at the temperature of

    I73°.6 of Fahrenheit.
            beg to add that the Aberdeen scale is in very good condi

    Ition, and in excellent preservation : it appears to have been

    exceedingly well finished, and is by far the best of any that
    have seen of Mr. Troughton's execution. And although the
    above results show a greater discordance from the correct mea
    sures than is desirable, yet as perfect accordance is seldom or
    never attainable, no inconvenience can arise from this circum
    stance, now the amount of the error is ascertained, and will
    consequently be known to those parties who may, at any future
    time, have occasion to make use of this scale.

        Independent of the value of these experiments in thus deter
    mining the comparative length of the Aberdeen scale, they are

    wdimeitnphtolyrotatshnheotrwsintthahaagttetnhIeerhatalovoeppomrienavtdaeleonfwtvitinehowta,iosniinm"ailtsahramtoubsctjheacntda, as,rtdhceosyucapelleevsdi ,
    " made from one and the same prototype agreeably to Mr.
    " Troughton's method, would accord with each other," is not
    strictly correct. Indeed, it is now too evident (as I shall at

    some future time show more in detail) that a great number of
    minute, yet important, circumstances have hitherto been neg
    lected in the formation of such scales ; and without an attention

    to which, they cannot be expected to accord with that degree
    of accuracy which the present state of science demands.

"\
                         93

T

              ^impact upon Seams. By Eaton Hodgkinson.
      The object of the present paper is an inquiry into some of the

       effects of impact upon beams when struck by bodies of different
       weight, hardness, and elastic force; and to compare theory with,
       and endeavour to adapt it better to, the results of experiment.
       The paper is a continuation of some experimental researches on
       the collision of imperfectly elastic bodies, which were published
      in the Fourth Report of the Association ; and it is intended to
       contain proofs of the principal statements made in a short com
       munication read at the Cambridge Meeting.

          The preliminary conclusions, and some calculations with their
      results, will tirst be given ; and afterwards the experiments, to
      which constant reference will be made for proofs and illustra
       tions.

        IWith the castings and every assistance in making the experi

       ments have been supplied, as on former occasions, through
       the liberality of Mr. Fairbairn, engineer, of Manchester.

          Conclusions from Experiments, &c.

Conclusion 1 .-- If different bodies of equal weight, but differ
ing considerably in hardness and elastic force, be made to strike
horizontally with the same velocity against the middle of a
heavy beam supported at its ends, all the bodies will recoil
with velocities equal to one another.
This is shown by the experiments on the 3rd beam, in which
two balls 8£ lbs. each, one of lead and the other of cast iron,
saugsapinesntdetdheasmpidednldeuluomf s,thewebreeamm,ad1e3tfolbfasl;l  through equal   arcs
                                                                       weight between   the

supports; and the recoil of the leaden ball was nearly the same
as that of the iron ball, though the hardness and elasticity of
the two balls were widely different. This equality of recoil in
the two balls was likewise shown to exist whether both fell

through a small or large arc.
   To vary the weight and quality of the balls, two were used,
half the  weight of the  Informtheers, e,4^aslbsb.efeoarceh, ,         one of lead and  the
other of  bell-metal.                                                  when both were   let

fall through equal arcs, whether great or small, the recoil of one
ball was nearly equal to that of the other.
To vary further the experiment on this beam, three balls were
    94 FIFTII REPORT -- 1835.

    used, about T^ of the weight of the first, 9 oz. 7 drs. each, one
    of lead, one of bell-metal, and the other of hardened steel. The

    recoils from equal impacts in all these, though very anomalous,
    tended toward equality as before.
       The beam here used was of steel, but that did not affect the

    results ; for the same equality in the recoils will be found in the
                                             beam, which was of cast
    expCeornimcelunstsionon2.t--heIf2, nads  before, a beam supported  iron.    ends  be
                                                                        at its

    struck horizontally by bodies of the same weight, but different
    hardness and elastic force, the deflection of the beam will be

    the same whichever body be used.

       This conclusion is proved by the experiments upon the 2nd
    and 3rd beam, and with the same generality as in the former
    case. In those on the 3rd beam two balls Hi lbs. each, one of
    lead and the other of cast iron, were made to strike the beam

    with velocities varying from 1 to 5 ; and the deflections from
    equal impacts by the two balls are as below :

        Velocity of                          Deflection from  Deflection from
           Impact.                             Leaden Ball.        Iron Ball.
                1                                     .42               .42
                                                       82
                2                                                       .88
              3                                     1.23              1.26
              4
                                                    1.66              1.69
                5                                  212               211

       In the impacts with the A\ lbs. balls of lead and bell-metal,
    the deflections from equal impacts, and varying in velocity from

    1 to 6, are as below, and nearly equal :

        \ve<loc"t'.                          Deflection from  Deflection from
                                               Leaden Ball.   Bell-metal Ball.
              1                                       .29
             2                                        .60               .31
             4
             0                                     112                  .62
                                                                     112
                                                    1.73              1.65

        The same equality is shown too, though with greater anoma
    lies than above, in the deflections from impacts with the balls
    of  lead, bell-metal, and hardened
        Conclusion 3. --The quantity of      steel, 9 oz.     7 drs.    each.
                                             recoil in a      body,
                                                                       after striking

    against a beam as above, is nearly equal to (though somewhat
    below) what would arise from the full varying pressure of a per
    fectly elastic beam as it recovered its form after deflection.
        The fact in this Conclusion was sought for, because it seemed
    doubtful whether a bent beam would straighten itself with any

    nearer approach to the velocity arising from perfect elasticity
    than that given by the defective elasticity of the material of
    which it is made. Thus, two solid bodies of cast iron struck
    against each other recoil with only t7ii of their velocity of im-

^\
                        IMPACT UPON BEAMS.                                                                                                          95

pact, as appears from our experiments on the collision of im
perfectly elastic bodies {Fourth Report of the Association). But
a cast iron beam throws back a ball with a velocity much more
nearly approaching to what would arise from perfect elasticity.
This will be seen by comparing the observed results with the

calculated ones in the experiments upon the 1st and 2nd beams,

the calculated results being obtained from problem 1 following,

where the beam    --is Tahseseufmfeecdt  to be perfectly elastic.       striking
   Conclusion 4.                         of bodiesof different natures

against a hard flexible beam seems to be independent of the
elasticities of the bodies, and may be calculated, with trifling
Iferror, on a supposition that they are inelastic.

       the calculation be formed on a supposition that the time of
the collision, in the first approach of the impinging body, is
small compared with the time of deflection of the beam, and that

the beam and striking body both proceed together afterwards as
one mass (as is done in our following problems) ; the calculated
deflections are somewhat greater than the observed ones, the dif
ference sometimes amounting to one fifth or one eighth, as will
be seen from the experiments on the 1st, 2nd, and 3rd beams.
But the observed deflections in our experiments, excepting, per

haps, those on the 3rd beam, must be rather too small, arising
from the resistance of the clay, into which a peg used for mea

suring the deflections was driven by the impacts.
   This fourth Conclusion must only be admitted when there is
nothing struck upon but the beam. When there is any other

heavy body intervening between the striking body and the beam,
touching the latter, and which must be struck before the beam
can be deflected, then the elasticities of the concurring bodies
exhibit their influence, and the result is greater than that ob
tained by calculation as above. This might be expected; and
it is shown by the experiments on the 4th beam.
Dr. Young, in his Natural Philosophy, and Mr. Tredgold, in
his   Treatise on the Strength           of Cast Iron, reason on this                                                                               sub
ject                                                                                                                                                here
      as if the striking body            were inelastic, and we have

shown that this may be assumed, whatever the hardness and
elasticity of the striking body may be·; or, probably, its weight
with respect to that of the beam.

· Of this curious fact the Author would beg to suggest the following as a
                        In the first moment of the impact upon the middle of
possible explanation.
the beam, each half of
                        its ends were not fastened, would have a tendency
by
        a

                             a
                            it
                                      is it,

                              if

                                                    is
                                                                                 a

                                                                                                                 a
                                                                                                                         is

                                                                                                                                                 ;
to turn round its centre of oscillation, or point two thirds of the distance from
the middle to the end, which seen in experiment by the ends springing up
after blow. But         probable that, besides this, the whole beam thrown

the blow into state of nodal vibrations, like as in musical chord there
96 FIFTH REPORT 1835.

In the elaborate paper on the " Measure of Moving Force,"
by Mr. Ewart, (Manchester Memoirs, vol. ii., second series,)
there are, among other important matters, some ingenious in
quiries respecting impact and the force of springs. These, how

ever, do not appear to be easily applicable to our present sub
ject generally ; and the clay used by Mr. Ewart, in his experi
ments with pendulous balls, was the resisting medium, while in
our case it was
   Conclusion 5  .e--mTphloeyepdowoenrlyoftoa         indicate  the deflections.   a  blow
                                                      uniform   beam to resist

given horizontally is the same in whatever part it is struck.
From the experiments on the 5th, 6th, and 7th beams, it ap

pears that the beams, when supported at the ends, required the
same blow to break them, whether they were struck in the
middle, or half-way between that and one support. From a
future investigation, too, it appears that the same is the case
wherever the beam is struck.
   Conclusion 6. --The power of a heavy uniform beam to resist
a horizontal impact is to the power of a very light one as
half the weight of the beam, added to the weight of the striking
body, is to the weight of the striking body alone.
This is shown by Cor. 1 . Prob. 2 ; for, from Cor. 2, the in-
ertia appears to be half the weight of the beam ; and the greater
resistance of a large mass than of a small one may be inferred
froCmontchleuseixopnerfim. --enTtsheopnowbeearmof4,a
                                                      and others.      to  resist     frac
                                                      uniform beam

ture from a light body falling upon it (the strength and flexi
bility of the beam being the same,) is greater as its weight in
creases, and greatest when the weight of half the beam, added

being one, two, or more nodes on each side of the middle. This will be un
derstood from the adjoining
figure, which represents the

beam, when bent by an im
pact from the ball A, and the
small excursions of the parts
between the nodes. The time of a vibration of one of these parts is very small
compared with the time of a vibration of the whole beam. Chladni has shown

that if a uniform rod have its ends supported and be put into a state of double
vibration  as above, the number of                         there will  bTera(nitt+del)4Phoyfsitqhuesee,
secondary   vibrations for one whole  nodes being     n,   rod (Biot,
                                      vibration of    the

torn, ii., p. 77-8). Hence, after the first concussion of a ball upon a heavy
beam, the ball and beam in proceeding together are not constantly in contact,

or in a state of equal pressure if they are. Their connexion appears to be a
series of small impacts, or of approaches and retreats, the intervals between
each of which are the time of one of these secondary vibrations. And during
these intervals it is presumed that the compressed surfaces of the ball and beam

recover themselves after the first concussion, leaving the effect the same whether

the ball be elastic or not.
              IMPACT UPON BEAMS.                        97

to that of the striking body, is nearly equal to one third of the
weight which would break the beam by pressure.

   This is shown to be the case in Corollary to Problem 4 ; and
in the impacts upon bodies suspended by wires (see remarks
after our experiments upon them further on,) the maximum re
sults differ only from the conclusions of that Problem in giving
the weight of the body struck a little higher. In this 7th Con
clusion, the weight of the striking body is assumed to be less
than one third of what would break the beam by pressure.

Other conclusions will be deduced from the problems and
theorems which follow, and which are introduced, mostly, to
Ifcompare their results with those of experiment.

    Prob. 1. a ball, or other body, be suspended like a pendu
lum, and made to strike horizontally, at its lowest point, against
the middle of a beam, A B, supported at the ends : to find the
quantity of recoil of the ball, and the time of straightening of

the beam.
We shall here suppose, as

mentioned before, that the beam

and ball have moved together
as one mass from the time of

the first contact to that of separation, when the beam has re

covered its original form A C B.
   Let C D, the whole deflection of the beam caused by the im

pact, s= b, any distance D E in the recoil = x, the correspond
ing velocity = v, the time = t, the inertia of the beam = r,

the weight of the ball = w, the chord of the arc ascended by
the ball = c, the radius or length of the pendulum = /, the
force of gravity = g. And let p be a pressure which, applied
in the middle of the beam, would bend it through a distance e.
           --~ ' = pressure of the beam at E.
^Then

And since w + r is the mass moved,

              g*£P.>(    ' -- the accelerating6 force.
                e (iw +
              iI
                                          - x)
                               e /·)
                                      (

                                        {h

                                      r)
But by mechanics,

             v dv _ gp
              .v w +

Integrating,

              ,,. gp(bx-£)
                     "
                               (w
                                              H
              2
                                e

                                    +

                                   r)

                                               '

1835.
98 FIFTH REPORT 1835.

when x = b,

                      e(w+r)'                                   V e (w + r)

                          greatest velocity of recoil of the ball.                of
To find the value of the chord c. We have, from the nature

the circle, --, = the versed sine, or height ascended.                      Whence

\/the velocity due to that height is c                    §-·

Putting this for v gives

Whence         \V/c = b

                                 -- 7-P-  +  r):   =      the   chord   of the    arc
                                 e [w             the     ball  would             the
                      through which                                    recoil if

                      beam were perfectly elastic.
To find the time of straightening the beam. Since, from

above,

               ,,· '" tv (»-*)
               \/ -I e (w + r)
               V..v =                ,gPe (w +      .  .  a/(v2 b x  x-)'.

                      i--I X                      r)

And     since  dt  =   v      ,  we  have

                                                 dx

                      V gp ' */(2bx-x*)'

whence                                                                 x\
                                                                     =T)'
                   V= /e (w +             r)    · arc     (     sm.
                           gp
                                                          ver

And when x = b,

                  V gsvp

  The time is therefore constant, when w + r and -- are con

stant, whatever the deflection may be ; which is analogous to
the case of a vibrating chord.
                        IMPACT UPON BEAMS.                                       99

Problem 2. To find the deflection of the beam answering to
a given horizontal impact, and the time of its duration.
Put d = the chord of the arc through which the ball fell,
t/ = the velocity of impact, /* = the height fallen through, and
*/the rest as before.
    Since from the last problem, b                   --& ' r = the velocity

which the beam would generate, in the hall and itself, while re
covering its form, this quantity will represent the velocity de
stroyed in both in bending the beam through the same distance b.
\/Multiplying, therefore, the above by iv + r gives
        Vb (vw + r)'           , ft  +--r)r  =  the  momentum      destroyJed.

                           e (w

But v' w = the momentum of the impact. And since these are

equal,  \/.-. v'w = b v( w + r)' V e (wSP+t r) ;

whence  /\= v' w V ge--p (w + r)

\//But v1 = 4/2 g h, from the properties             of falling bodies.

         .           =  W    Ihe

        b                  --. , r

And since h = --->,

        \/= tvd V p--lT.(w + r)

From the three last equations we have the deflection in terms
of the velocity of the impact, the height, and the chord of the
                           beam and ball        bimeinpgactth.--e  same.
arc fallen through,  the   duration of an                          The time  of  de
   For the time, or  the

flecting the beam, through any distance b, must be equal to the
time of returning through the same distance ; the beam being
\Jstipposed perfectly elastic. And since the time of return was
found, by the last problem, to be 1-57079 x                        --            -,

a/therefore twice this quantity or 3·14159 x                                 = the

time of an impact, or complete vibration of the beam with the
striking body accompanying it. The time is therefore constant

                                                          H2
100 FIFTH REPORT 1835.

whether the impact be great or small, provided the beam and

striking body are the same, since then -- and w + r are con
stant. It is, moreover, inversely as the square root of the stiff

ness of the beam, since -- measures that quality.

Cor. 1 .          /Since, from above,
                       . 2he

                  _' '.l~     p b1 (w + r)

                                    2<?w*

If e = the utmost deflection the beam will bear, and h = e,

                  _i p e (iv + r)

the greatest height of impact the beam will bear from a given

weIigf htht eww. eight of the beam be small and neglected, r = o, and

                  h = f2-wi·.

The two last values of h being the measures of the power of
                                                                      have this propor
taiohnea: --vy thaendpoawleigr htofbaeahmeatvoy  resist  impact, we    of a light one
                                                 beam    : the power

                  p e (w + r) p e                        w + r : iv.
                       2w8 2w

   Whence it appears that in beams, whose strength and flexi
bility are the same, the power of bearing impacts from a given
body may be increased to any extent by augmenting the weight
of the beams. This, however, can only apply to horizontal im
pacts, otherwise the weight of the beam itself might break it
without any blow.

   · Dr. Young, speaking      of the  results of impact   upon elastic bodies {Natural
Philosophy, vol. i. p. 143),  says,                       the nature of resilience that
                                      *' It follows from

a body of a pound weight falling from the height of a yard will produce the
same effect in breaking any substance as a body of three pounds falling from
the height of a foot." This it appears from above is only correct when the
body struck is without weight, and the impact is given horizontally. And
when the Doctor (at p. 148 and elsewhere) represents the resilience of a beam,
or its resistance to impact, to be simply proportional to the bulk or weight of
the beam, it was necessary to consider that the striking body was without in

ertia or weight.
               IMPACT UPON BEAMS.                                                    101

Cor. 2.  Since

          \/Vft = W p--{.w + ryr,

               .· r = 2 pheonw* 1  w.

Whence we may obtain the inertia of beams, by substituting for
these values in the results of our experiments. Taking them,
then, from each of the seven experiments upon the third beam,
these being the most varied, we have :

From the 8£ lbs. balls  ,f. . . . r = 7'86 lbs. 1
From the 4\ lbs                        r              =  5.13  lbs.
From the 9 oz. 7 drs                   r              =        lbs.   JLb^4Tbh1*DS*
                                                         639

The weight of the beam between the supports was 13·75 lbs.

Whence   ? = ·47, the coefficient by which to multiply the

weight between the supports of an uniform beam to obtain a
weight equal to its inertia. The inertia appears therefore to
differ but little from half the weight of the beam between the
supports ; and it will be assumed as just half in all our calcula
tions for comparison with experiment ; and especially as half
the weight is the pressure which a prop under the middle, or
any other part, of an uniform beam would sustain through the
weight of the beam, were it cut in two in that part. Mr. Tred-
gold assumes it as half without proof, and calculates the effect

of vertical impact as if it were horizontal.
Prob. 3. Required the" height from which a body must fall
upon the middle of a given beam, supported at the ends, to de
flect it through an assigned distance ; the weight of the beam
being considered, and the striking body assumed as inelastic.

   Put e = C E the assigned deflec
tion of the beam ; p = the pressure
which, applied in the middle, would
have produced it ; e* = C D the de
flection of the beam from its own
weight, x = any other deflection, q
= the pressure in the middle of the
beam from      ibtseamweiifguhtnifo(r=m)h, ahlf=thGe
weight of the                                         D  the  height  fallen  through

before impact, n = the power of the deflection to which the pres
sure of the beam is proportional, and the rest as before.

Then, since c" : .r" : :p : P~ , the resistance of the beam at any
10SJ FIFTH REPORT -- 1835.

deflection x would be ---- , and its pressure upwards would be

'-- (w + q) ; and the inertia being w + r,

j-- - j^-^. · . retarding force = g               f px"           (w                           +      ]
                                                                                                  y) .

But by the laws of motion,                               (i" + 9)1.

             Jd v g ?> *"

                 rf.r w> + r l e"

Integrating,     -- -;2    =      +--r  i         tt-t   --  v(w  +                            7*)' x J\.
              C
                              «/        \(m  +    1)<?"

The body to will, by falling through A, have acquired a velocity
^2g h; and after impact on the mass, whose inertia is r, they
will commence going together with the diminished velocity

w + r *^2 se h. Therefore,' when x = e\ v = w + r */2 ssr h,' and

these substituted give

(^ 4rl(rnpc,, = vPeh +
                                  g        f i)e'" + l       ~    ,                                 ,      .1
                                                                                               +       · ;e «?'
                                                                  (w                              ?)

substituting for C, in the general equation, the value just ob

tained gives

(iv + r)*                  w+     is r\      + «"                                                 T VM             ;J.
e1,                                           (n
                                                           1)                                                    and at
   q I,y                                                   v
                                                               h,
                     is 2
                                                                                            v
But when the deflection                 completed = o, and .r s=
that time, dividing by the coefficient of we obtain

hm-*r[ -V+-i)^-(i" + y)(e-^}. ' (A°

  If the flexure of the beam                 not so great as to injure its elas
ticity, n= and                             is

                                              *)
h-P + -*{& + -{»                                         +                                        · - · (BO

                                                              ,)}.

Or since                 the pressure which accompanies the deflection

we may substitute for in terms of e, by supposing that
                                        q
                                    IMPACT UPON BEAMS.                                                   10tf

-e : p : : e: q*, for then q = -- . Putting this for q gives

h = iw + rUe-^^e_eel)_wy                                                                                 (C)

where e -- d is the deflection from impact, and -- is constant

in impacts upon the same beam.
   To obtain the value of h in terms of the weights, instead of

the deflections ; substituting for e -- tf its value, ----                                               a            we
                                                                                                               is
obtain
                                                                                                                is iZ,
When the beam                          uniform, = nearly, as appears from
                                    is
                                       A

                                                    q

                                                    r
                                                       rq
Cor. 2. Prob. 2.

  If the beam be very light, = o, = o, and

                                          = e(JL_A

Prob. 4. To find the weight of that beam which will bear the
                                                                                               ;q 2 2
greatest impact from given body falling upon                                                             the strength
                                       a                                                            it,

and flexibility of the beams being the same.
From the last problem
                                            -              - ~ w);
        ~ 2jrf(w                                        ?)
         is y        is                   (^
                             +                             A
            ah h                r)                           is (^
                 is                                                a
                                       q
and the question to find when                                        ?maximum.

In beams of the same form the inertia will bear constant

ratio to the weight and, therefore, in similar beams, we may
                                    ;

substitute for r, in terms of q, in the preceding formula.                                               Sup
pose aq = r, then

                   = 2pv? (W q^a ~ q^P ~ ~ W^ ~ maximum.
                                       +
                                                                          q

Neglecting the constant multiplier, and calling the other part
y, we have

                   = (w + a               -- (p -- -- w) = maximum.
                                  is q)
   · This                                                                                      from the weight of the
                                       (p                                                          but the error no
beam
                                                   q)

                                                                      :

                                                                  aq
                                                                                2

                                                                                            e
                   assumption       not strictly  true    the deflection
                    little greater   than that    due
                                                        io weight =
greater than in the supposition that the deflection in elastic beams
as p, which only the case in horizontal pressures.                                                       always
104 FIFTH RKPORT -- 1835.

Involving, and arranging according to the powers of q, gives

   y = aq3 -- (2ap -- 2 aw -- iv) q9-- (2pw x 1 + a -- ap%

             -- 2 tv2) q + tup* -- 2 vPp = maximum.

.·. -2- = 3ay^-2(2           ap  -- 2 aw -- w) q                          --  {2 pw  x  1  +a
      i( fJ
           -- ap*-- 2w!) =0;

-j-£ = 6 a q -- 2 (2 ap -- 2 a w -- w).

  Since -a^q = 0,
.· . 3aqt -- 2(2ap -- 2 aw -- w)q=2pw x l + a -- ap9 -- 2i

   From this quadratic equation we obtain

                                                                                       . (A.)

*W{r-»p~(*~)++(*~+i)}
                                     2
If we substitute
                                                                 y*
                                                                           )..
                  this   value   of  u              in    that    of -7-^,    we  have
                                                                      a

The negative and affirmative signs preceding the radical here,
show that in the two values of which admits, the positive
radical answers to minimum, and the negative to the maxi          q
                  a
                                                                      by
                           r

                                          q
mum

  sal.If
 required.  be    uniform,        = (Cor. 2. Prob. 2.), and
the beam                         impact gives, equation (A),
In that case, the maximum

            qj
                      2

                   p
                                                       2
                  = -- iv -- -- vp* + 3»'.                                        . . (B.)
                                                                              is .
                                                                                  a

                                                                                        3

                                                                                               is
  Cor. If w be very small compared with p, then w* so

compared with pa. Neglecting w*, in the last equation, gives
                         ;
                                   q

                                                3
the value of q, when the resistance to impact                                     maximum,

=--     p  -- w, nearly  or  +   w               =        --  p,  nearly.
     o
                                                          o

This corollary, and especially the more general values of in
                                                                                     a
                                                                                             q
the problem, would enable us to adjust the weight of bridge
                      IMPACT UPON BEAMS.                                                                                                                                                     105

of beams, bo as best to resist concussions from a given load
passing, upon an uneven road, over it. The formulae would
apply too to impacts upon some other elastic structures, q being
the pressure from the weight of the structure, or its inertia, in
the point of impact.
   Theorem. The locus of ultimate curvature of all the points
in a slightly flexible beam, whose depth is equal throughout, is

a parabola.

   Let A D B be the natural
        of the beam,
form                   supported
at its   ends A, B ;
                      A C B its

form when bent at C to the

tueChlxtet;iTmehnsaaeqtntuneda,orAfedsieiFntofsc,lfeectBehtliieaotEsn,lteiiscnpogeffsrtohhapro,ecbwneewdna;iecmuCbhlyaiasFrvsewapsreifttrrehopemresncdAuoicrnvuBalamtruuerpecohtnoamnCtichuselFti.pcthluiaervtde thbaeyt
   C F (= deflection of the part A C) as (A C)2 x curvature,
   C E (= deflection of the part B C) as (B C)2 x curvature.
But a beam     of uniform depth will
                 We have therefore     bear the same    curvature                                                                                                                            in
every part.                                                                                                                                                                                  to
                                       C F to (AC)',    and CE
(B C)3, in a constant ratio.
-CE= - -Wcwe=hBPeuuhantattccvioetnehngesECttarFhingeFtnh==tq-ICua=aennxFgtA*lie,tydCCtsBruEiactnhh=getlehlcseacnt(lgAIC{th2FF xoxD=f)-,*tlch)B=(e.AEbcCeD)a(%Pma,CrexEs2=i=m/ Axicla(C+rB,,
                                                                                                                                                                                             and

                                                                                                                                                                                             C)9
                                                                                                                                                                                             ak\.

               .'. BE : DE : : AF : FD;
and A F : F D : : A F : F D,
               ... AF + BE : FD + DE :: AF : FD.
- -AFis

B
   EsHme=raell/,F--Dx+, +aDnBdEEthe=ElaAsFCt Bp=ro=cpIo/r(2tnioexanrlayb.Io)vI;enabnthedicsoamscaetshsee  deflection

                                                                                                          A F = x,

   cl(2x-l) -IfI : :: x : FD. Whence F D = ex (2 x                                                                                                                                           I).

=  we        subtract the value  cof   D, just  found,  from that of                                                                                                                         C
   xa,                             x*  -- ex              =x --
             we obtain CD =         F            x--                                                                                                                                           F
                                                               being nearly
where D may be taken for the deflection ofcit         C,I)that the ultimate                               (I                                                                                 x)
                                                           it
         is C                               (2                                                                                                                                                  ;
                                                                c
perpendicular to A D B. Whence appears
deflection at any point               as the rectangle of the segments
                     a
                        is

                            C
                                  is
into which the beam divided at that point. The locus of these
points therefore
                       parabola.                        the ultimate                                                                                                                         cur
   In the preceding   theorem we have supposed
106 FIFTH REPORT -- 1835.

vuture to be the utmost the beam would bear without impairing

its elasticity ; but the result would have been the same if we had
assumed any other constant curvature. In the parabola so
formed, the deflection in the middle would be to the deflection
half-way between that and one end, as 1 to "75 ; and it will be
seen from the mean between the results of our experiments on
tbe 5th, Cth, and 7th beams that this ratio was found to be 1 to

·69T4h. edorifefmer.in--g  ITf'yanfroumnifothrme  above.  be  supported  at the ends, and
                                                   beam
struck horizontally upon the side, the same blow will be required
to break it wherever it is given.
    From Cor. 1, Prob. 2, it appears that where the striking body
and the inertia of the beam remain invariable, the power of re
sisting impact is as the strength of the beam multiplied by the
deflection it is capable of.
    From the last theorem the ultimate deflection at any point is
as the product of the segments at that point, and is equal to

c x (I -- x). It is shown too by writers on the strength of ma

terials that the strain from a weight at such point is in the same

proportion ; the strength therefore is inversely as the strain, or

as  x--(7I7 --     1.      Hence the pr ower of the beam to sustain an im-

                x)
pact at any point is as the product of these,

It is therefore the same in even- part.                                  on the 5th, 6th,

   For another proof of this sec the experiments
and 7th beams.

                  Experiments. -- Horizontal Impacts.
   In all the following experiments a ball was suspended by a
thin string from an elevated object, and so placed that, when
hanging vertical, its side just touched the beam in the point in
tended to be struck, which was always the middle, except other

wise mentioned ; the beam being loosely supported at its ends,
horizontally and vertically, by immoveable bodies. The impacts
were made by drawing back the ball through given arcs, as
measured by their chords, and letting it fall against the beam.
The deflection of the beam by an impact was measured by the
quantity which a peg, whose end touched the beam when at rest,
had been driven into a mass of clay placed on the opposite side
of the beam to that where the ball was. The use of the peg and
clay was only to indicate the deflection.
                          IMl'ACT UPON BEAMS.                                                                               107

Iii all the experiments the radius or length of the pendulum

was 1 2 feet, except another radius be mentioned ; and the mag
nitudes of the impacts were measured by the chords of the arcs
through which the ball fell, because the velocity of impact is
in that ratio, as will easily be seen ; for the velocity is as the
square root of the versed sine, (or of the height fallen through,)
and the chord is in the same ratio.
i 1st Beam. --This was a rectangular bar of cast iron, 1 inch
   inch section, and 4 feet 6 inches long, weighing 7? lbs.                                                                 bIyt
was placed horizontal, and laid with its broader side against two
vertical supports 4 feet asunder. The blows were given hori
zontally in the middle of the beam to bend it in that direction.
The impinging body was a cast iron ball S^ lbs. weight.

Chord of arc Observed     Calculated   Observed    Calculated    Difference                        Difference
fallen I chords of        chords of   deflections  deflections  between ob                        between ob
through. in recoil of      recoil of                            served and                         served and
feet. (Ra       ball, in               of beam,     of beam.    calculated                         calculated
dius 12feet.) inches.       ball, in         in          in                                       dejlections.
                            inches.                                recoils.
                                         inches.      inches.
                              8.3
   17                        14.5           -25       26                                     *                       Ai
   2 15                     218             ·44
   3 21                      29 1           ·66      -53                                 _-- Vo.                     *
                            383             ·88                                             »v
   4 31                     47.2                     -79                                     rV                       *
                            535          116       105
   5 39                                  1 43      1.32                                  -ttV                         +
   6 46                                   1.62     1.58                                  103                         _TiiT
   7 52                                            1.84                                     S

            Broke it.                                                                    i        i

   8

   Prior to the experiments above, the beam was laid flat on two
horizontal supports feet asunder; and weights, suspended from

the middle and gently laid on, produced deflections in the bar

(in the direction that was bent by impact) as below
                          4

                             it
                                         it
                                                            t

                                                                                                                  :
                28 lbs. bent          -32 inch,
                JcDfl                 .e°'a5
                                                   /Unloaded,
                                                        no set.

The quantity of the recoil in the preceding experiments was

calculated from the formula           V=                  ---- -

                                                            (w
                                      c                                                           (Prob.                    4 '.)1
                                           is

                                        \b/

                                                                   e
                                                                      ..

                                                                  +
                                                                   a r) r

                                                                                           .
                                                                                                 x
This formula, like all the others, calculated on supposition

that the beam perfectly elastic and the striking body devoid
of elasticity.2,
                    is
In Cor. Prob.                         shown that the inertia of uniform
                          2,

                             it
                                   is
                                          is

                                                 r
                                                                                      ;
beams, struck in the middle, nearly equal to one half of the
weight of each between its points of support and as this beam
was feet inches long, and 7'25 lbs. weight, the weight of
4feet was 6·44 lbs. Whence the inertia = 3·22 lbs. We have6
108 FIFTH REPORT 1835.

likewise w = 8·5 lbs., / = 144 inches, b = the different deflec
tions ; and as 56 lbs. bent the beam '63 inch, taking j, = 56 lbs.
we have e = "63 inch.

 \/The quantity of the deflections in the experiments above was

calculated from the formula b = w d V p--1n(w +:--r)\- (Prob.2.)'
In this formula d is the chord of the arc the striking body fell
thr2onudghBeianme.a--chThinisstacnacset,inganwd atsheofretshte
                                                                                                               are as                       above  described.
                                                                                                                same                        metal  and dimen

sions as the last, and the experiment was made in the same
manner, except that striking balls of different metals and weight

were used. Weight of casting, (4 feet 6 inches long,) 7 lbs. Di

stance of supports, 4 feet, as before.

       Impact with leaden ball 8| lbs. weight.                                              Impact with cast iron ball 84 lbs welght.

ill !u«- 'o~x         S                                          Calculated de.11of rieam,                     Observed chord               .0 -   4
                               Calculated chord                                  inches.                          of rIenc ioinlchores.ball.
                                  or rien>iilnchores.ball,                                                                       7          Us     K ~~      SOU

                                               4          Us                  flect!        6 5 4 3 2 1 11                                  |3.S             31"
                                                  a                              in                                                         gg =
                                                                                                                                            3*

       6543 21    6-5   !    7-3                            ·24    ·29                                          65                          14       ·23       ·29
                13         14                                                                                                                        ·46
                                                            ·46    ·57                                         14                           199      ·65       ·57
                19         22                                      ·86                                         20                           30                 ·86
                27         297                              ·73  1-14                                                                       40-4     ·98
                34         398                                   1-43                                          29                           505    1-32      114
                           49                               ·97                                                37                                  1-65      143
                47                                        1-30   172                                           48                                            17t
                                                          1-60

       Impact with leaden ball 44 lbs. weight.                                               Impact with bell metal ball 44 lbs. weight.

                                                                                            1*
                                  "8 1 i                                                                                                           Observed deflec
                                                                                                                                                      tion.
     65 43 2 1             Id 0                                  u                                             11
                75 1 1                                                                                                                                            Calculated de
                           U                                                                                      1 11 .i                                             flection.
                      0 ·ua                                      0
    0                                                     0                                 6 5 4 3 2 1 1'

                           42 ·11                                ·18                                           4                                     ·13  1    -18
                                                                                                                               5                     ·30
                                                                                                                                                     ·45      -36
                           107                            ·28    ·36                                             9-5   11-5                          ·65
                                                                                                               14                                    ·80      -54
                17         17-6                           ,46    ·54                                                   173                         1-00
                                                                                                               19      25                                     72
                22 24-6 ·64 72                                                                                 29      307                                j
                                                                                                               35      38-4                                   -90
                28         319                            ·83    ·90                                                                                         108

                33 38-4 100 1-08                                                                                                                          I

it  Before the experiments on impact were made upon this beam                                               4
    was laid horizontal on two supports feet asunder, and weights
                                 IMPACT UPON BEAMS.                                                              109

gently laid on the middle bent it (in the same direction that it
was afterwards bent by impact), as below :

          28 lbs. bent it .37 inch,
          56 lbs.          '77 inch. Elasticity a little injured.

In calculating the deflections of the beam and the recoils of
the striking body, the inertia of the beam was in this case and
in all others taken as half the weight of the beam between the
supports   (Cor. 2, Prob. 2).
culations  for the first beam,                         Adopting the formulae used in the                         cal
                                                                                                                 lbs.
                                                       we have here the inertia r=3.l 1 1
And since 28 lbs. bent this beam ·37 inch, calling p = 28, we
have e -- '37- We have also I = 144 inches, w = 8J or 4£ lbs.,
and the other quantities given in each case, or obtained from the

observed results.

The deficiency of the deflections in the experimental results,
compared with the calculated ones, may perhaps arise from the
resistance of
   3rd Beam.       --theThpiseg   in the               clay.               bar of cast steel, WG
                                 was a                 rectangular

inch by   '41 inch section, and 6 feet 9 inches long, weighing

14^1bs.    It was laid horizontally, and placed with its broader
side against two vertical supports, 6 feet 6 inches asunder ; the
impacts being intended to bend it in its least direction. The
striking bodies were balls of lead, cast iron, bell metal, and har
dened steel, and of various weights, as below.

          Leaden ball 8j lbs weight.                                 Cast iron ball 8J lbs. weight.

Chord of arc fall                                              Chord of arc fall°         -S-:
   en through, hi                                                 en through, in          --
       feet                                            ill           feet                 3f                 ·3
        (Rad. It feet.)                                                  (Rad. 12 feet.)
                  Observed chord                       3"                                        "3 e g      ||
                     of arc of reco8,                              ii 2
                        in inches.                                         O <=               i si           un
                                                                                                          1
                                 Calculated chord
                                     of arc of reco8,

                                        in inches.

              uE u

5 4 32 1    5.5      6.37    ·42                         ·437  54321       125             637    ·42          ·437
          11.5     124                                                    618.0           133
                             '82                         ·87               245                    ·88          ·87
          18.3     18.7    1.23                        1.31                3T5            191   1.26         1.31
          247      252     1.66                                                           25.6
          31.0     322     212                         1·75                               320   1.69         1·75
                                                                                                2.11         2.19
                                                       219

          Leaden ball 4J lbs weight.                                 Bell metal ball lbs. weight.
                                                                                          *i

6421        8.5      5.17    ·29                         ·27   6421          4.5           55     ·31         ·27
                             ·60                         ·54                                                   ·54
          17.3     10.7    1.12                        1.08                  9.0          11.0    ·62        1.08
          290      20.0    1.73                        1.63                175            20.0  1.12         1.63
                                                                                                1.65
                   30.8                                                    270            29.4
    no FIFTH REPORT -- 1835.

                              Leaden ball, weight  ||  Bell            metal lmill, weight             Sheer steel ball, weight
                         | 9 oz. 7 dr.             '                   9 oz. 7 drs.                                9 oz. 7 drs.

                                                                                                    h

    Chord of arc3        v.                  Calculated re.                                   Calculated re.
       each ball fell                           coil.                                            coil.
                   -087  ·81
           through. ·17                                      Observed deflec                                  Observed deflec
              (Radius feet.)·26                                  tion.                                            tion.
                      Calculated de.-35
                         flection by each                                   Observed recoil.           ii

                            ball.                                                                         5 6P
                                '-       ·9                                                                                        -8_.
                                         >
                 0 i %i                                                                                                 O
                                         a                                                              .09 1.0 ·98
                  I 5l                                                                                  .18 1.96

      4321               ·07 ·76                   |:                  .08 .8 ·87                   |I  .27 37 2.94
                                                                   1| 1.17 2.0 1.85
                         ·16 1.5 170                                                                    .40 5.0 4.35
                         ·28 3.5 305                                   ·26 35 2.83
                         ·45 4.3 4·90
                                                                        41 4.0 4.46

p it   The anomalous character of the results of the experiments
    with the small balls, compared with those from the larger ones,
    may perhaps arise from the difficulty of observing the results of

    small impacts.
        Previous to any of the experiments on impact upon this beam,
        was laid on supports feet inches asunder, and bent by

    weights in the middle, in the same direction that was after
    wards bent by impact. The results are as below
                                             6                                                          :J
                                                         6                                                 it
                                                                         6
            Its own weight (or pressure from half of its"!                                                     ·33 in.
               weight between the supports) = lbs. 14 oz.
            28 lbs. + lbs. 14 oz. (its own pressure) =                                                  ~\ j
               34 lbs. 14 oz                                                                                   1.49 --
                         +
            56 lbs.         66lbs. 14 oz. = 62 lbs. 14 oz. = 1006 oz. 2.56 --

       To calculate, as before, the deflections and recoils, we had here
       = 1006 oz., = 2.56 ins., = lbs. 14 oz. = 110 oz., «· = the
    various striking weights, and the rest from the data, as in the
                         e                   r

                                                      6

preceding cases.
      In the experiments upon this beam which were made the last
of those where the impact was horizontal, additional care was
taken to prevent the resistance of the clay from rendering the

deflections less than they ought to be, as was conceived that
                                                                                              it

this cause had in some degree reduced the deflections in most of
the4tohthBeer abme.a--msTwhhisichcashtadirobneenbasrtrwuacsk,
                                                                         horizontally.                  1'08   x  1"05
                                                                          in section,

inches, and feet long, weighing 23^ lbs.                                                      ;     was placed against
                         7
                              6                                                                 it
                                          6
two supports, feet inches asunder, and bent by impacts in
the middle. Weight of striking ball, of cast iron, 20f lbs.
Radius 16 feet.
      In the first of the following experiments the beam alone was
struck, as before, and, in the second experiment, 56-lbs. weight
                                                       a
                                                                                    a
of cast iron was suspended like pendulum and made to touch
the middle of the beam; the ball was then made to impinge
ag:iinst the weight, and thence deflect the beam.
                                           IMPACT CPOX BEAMS.                                                                                   Ill

       Impact upon the beam to deflect it.                      Impact upon the we Kht to deflect the beam.

is A                                        rence be.           li51 - ·>             9 87 65 4 3 2                            ·1     rence be.
                                               observed                                                                                  observed
                                    -i.s.g        alculated     U                            1 ,1 1 &                                       alculated
                                        %3            ections.                                                                                  ections.
                                                                                   ·31      3 Ar                                      Illi
                                    u5                                             ·43                                       5^
                                                                                   ·69
87 65432            o2                ·51   i                                      ·81                                          ·31   0i
                                      ·76     0                               1.04                                              -46
                      ·46           101                                       1.28                                                        i sr 1
                      ·62           1.26    * i i ii iT                       1.41                                              -61             --+tV
                                    1.52                                      1.63
                      ·87           1·77                                                                                        76              _
                                    2.03
                    103                                                                                                          ·92            --±
                    1.24                                                                                                       1.06             --
                    144                                                                                                        1.22
                    1.80                                                                                                       1.36

                                                                                                                                                i

The observed deflections in this latter case, where the impact

was upon the weight, were somewhat higher than the calcu
lated ones, while in impacts upon the beam itself they were less
than as calculated. It                           evident that the elasticity from the
                    6
                                6

                                             is
collision had here some effect, as might be expected.

Before the experiments on impact the beam was laid on two
supports, feet inches asunder, and was bent ·78 inch by 123

lbs. (including the pressure from its own weight) applied gently
in the middle.
   5th, 6th, and 7th Beams. --These were three cast iron bars
from the same metal, each feet inches long, full inch square,
                                            a
and 14 lbs. 10 oz. weight, nearly. They were supported by4
                                                           6
props feet asunder, and the impacts were given against the
                  4

                                 ;
beams alone first in the middle, and afterwards half-way be

tween the middle and one support.
The striking body was ball of cast iron, 44 lbs. weight, sus

pended by 16-feet radius.
                    a

                                    Impacts in the middle of the Bars.

Chords of arcs         puted from the       Deflections of      Deflections of              Deflections of                            Mean between
fallen through,             chords.         the 5th beam,       the 6th beam,               itnhep7atrhtsboefaman.                    the deflections
                                            in parts of an      in parts of an                                                        of the 6th and
     in feet.                                                                                    inch.
                                                   inch.               inch.                                                           7th beam ln
                                                                                                                                      the middle.

          65 432 1                  1414    -23

                  1.5 2.121                 ·28                                             ·26 ·26

                                    2.828 ·42 ·33                                           ·37 ·35
                                                                                            ·49 ·46
                  2.5 3·535 ·50 ·42                                                         ·56 ·55

                                    4·242 ·59 ·53                                           ·67 ·67
                                                                                            ·76 ·77
                  3.5 4·949 ·67 ·68
                                                                                                                     ·85
                                    5.656   ·82 ·79
                                                                                            ·92 -95
                  45 6.363                                                            ·85                    105

                                    7.070   ·97 ·97

                  5.5 7777                  Broke in ihs                              1.05
                                               middle.
                                    8.484
112 FIFTH REPORT -- 1835.

   The sixth and seventh beams having borne the deflections
1·05 and ·92 as above, and the former being considered (from
the result of the fifth beam) very near to fracture, they were no
longer struck upon the middle, but upon a point half way be
tween the middle and one support ; the pendulous ball being
so ordered as just to touch that point of the beam when hanging
vertical. The intention was to ascertain the deflection of each
beam in this new point of impact, and the blow necessary to
break it there.

Impacts at half the distance between middle and one support.

                                   Deflection of   Mean between
 Chords of   Deflection or the     the ~th beam    deflections of            Ratio of deflections
arcs fallen  6th beam in point    in point struck  the 6th and 7th         from equal impacts at
through, in  struck, in parts of   in parts of an  beam at one
                                                                 distance   one fourth span and
     feet.          an inch.              inch.    (|fofruormth  one end.      middle of beam.

2 ·22                             ·2'>                           H=76·24 H = .69-]

3 ·40                             ·44                            ·42       «. = .68 mean
                                                                 -52
4 ·50                             -54                            ·64 -694

5 ·60                             -68

55 -70                                                           ·70 .A-V--67J
6 Brokethebeam. Broke it.

   Both beams were broken exactly in the point of impact, and
with the same intensity of blow, an impact through an arc of
6 feet. Now an impact, through an arc of 6 feet, against the
middle of the 5th beam, had broken it ; and as impacts in the
middle through 3, 4, and 5 feet, had nearly bent each of the
three beams through equal quantities, we may be convinced that
an impact through about 6 feet against the middle of the 6th
and 7th beams would have broken them. Hence we may con
clude that an uniform beam will bear the same blow whether
struck in the middle or half way between that and one end.

   Previous to the preceding experiments upon the 7th beam,
it was laid horizontal on two props, 4 feet asunder, and weights
gently laid on the middle bent it as below :

H38 lbs. bent it ·26 inch; unloaded, no set.
             .40 -- ; unloaded, set fa inch.
224 lbs.

Remark.-- From all the preceding experiments it appears that
the deflection is nearly as the chord of the arc fallen through,
or as the velocity of impact.

                                fertical Impacts.
   In the following experiments the impacts were given by a
short leaden cylinder C falling from different small heights upon
                                  IMPACT UPON BEAMS.                                   113

the middle of the beam, which was sustained at its ends A, B,
in a horizontal position, by firm supports. The cylinder C was
perforated by one end of an uniform light slip of timber D, 6 feet
4 inches long, which was attached by a joint at the other end to
the vertical prop E.

   It will be observed that C fell through small arcs of a circle

instead of vertical ; but as the radius was large and the heights
usually small, the error was not worth notice.

Weight of leaden cylinder
£ of weight of lever D (its

    inertia)
Weight of striking body, or

   sum of the above . .

   8th Beam. --This bar was of cast steel, and was that called

the 3rd beam in our horizontal experiments ; it was now laid
upon two supports 6 feet 6 inches asunder as before, and bent
by impact in the same direction.

Heights fallen   Observed de      Whole deflec     Calculated      Calculated     Excess of real
 through, in      flections of    tions of beam    pressure, in  heights fallen  over calculated
     inches.                       or observed   ounces, which                    heights fallen.
                beam from lm                     would produce    through, in
                pact, in inches.    deflections   the whole de        inches.
                                    + .33 lnch.
                                                     flections.

          3     200               2.33  -          916            253             *
          6                                      1140
          9     2.57              2·90           1305              5.22  ~       *f
; 12                              3.32           1466
         15     2.99                                               7.76          *
                3.40              3·73           1599                            tV
         18                       4.07           1760            10.69
         21     374               4.48           1859            1345             1
        24                                       1969
                4.15              4·73                           1719            iV
                4.40              5.01                           1971
                                                                 2272            .rSr
                4.68

   Referring to the previous experiments on this beam, it will be
found that the beam when placed oil two supports 6 feet 6 inches
asunder, bent ·33 inch, as given in the 3rd column above, by its
own weight ; and that 1006 ounces laid on the middle bent it

2.56 inches.
   The calculated heights of impact in the 5th column were ob

tained from the formula

  /* = 2p w (w + r) (p -- q) {p-- q -- 2 w), problem 3rd.

   In this formula -- is constant in pressures upon the same

1835.
114 FIFTH REPORT -- 1835.

--beam;                                               2·56
            and we  have           here  --e =                        131bs.l3oz.      = 221oz.,
                                                         ^tw=
q = r = 110 oz. ; and p is obtained from each of the tabulated

pressures in the 4th column.
   The values of h would have been calculated more easily than
as above by equation (C), prob. 3 ; but the formula used was
conceived to stand in need of a test.
   9th Beam. -- This was a bar of cast steel 2·05 x "52 section, and
                                                               It was laid on
6  feet  4 inches   long,          weighing 23^ lbs.                                   supports
6  feet  asunder,    and           the leaden cylinder          was let fall           upon the

middle as before.
   This bar was bent 2·44 inches by 224 lbs. being laid gently on

the middle.

                   Heights fallen   Deflectlons          Calculated   Excess of real
                    through, ln    from lmpact,       heights fallen  over calculated
                        inches.                                       heights fallen.
                                     in inches.           through.

                    6 1-09 514
                    12 1-42 949
                                         176 1534
                    18                                                +

                    24                   2-02         2074

   The heights, in this case, were calculated by equation (C),

problem      3.    --This          was   an     uniform tube of wrought iron :                            it
    10th    Beam.

was laid horizontal on two supports, 9 feet 6 inches asunder,
and struck upon the middle with the cylinder falling upon it ;
first, when the tube was empty, *and next, when it was filled
with leaden bullets : the bullets being put rather loosely in to
increase its weight without affecting its flexibility.

   Weight o£ the empty tube, between the supports, 9·2 lbs.
Weight of tube, when loaded, 17·7 lbs. Deflection of empty
tube, from its own Weight, -26 inch. Deflection from weight of
loaded tube ·61 inch. Deflection from 28 lbs. hung in the mid
dle of unloaded tube 1·47 inch, and of loaded tube 1"44 inch.

                   Empty tube.                              Tube loaded with bullets.

   Heights fallen   Deflections     Whole deflec      Heights fallen  Deflections Whole deflec
    through, in    from impact.    tions, in inches.   through, in    from impact,     tions, in inches.
        inches.                                            Inches.      in inches.
                     in inches.

         3         2-50            276                3               2-31             292

         6         3-20            346                6               2-99             3 60

         9         374             4-00               9               344              4-05

   12              4-02            4-28               12              3-96             4-57

   In these experiments the deflections from impact upon the
                                         IMPACT UPON BEAMS.                                                        115

loaded tube were less than those where the empty one was used,
though the ultimate deflections were a little greater in the former
case than in the latter. The following experiments are intended
to show that increasing, to a certain extent, the weight of the
body struck augments its power of bearing impact.

            Impact on Bodies sustained hy Wires.

Experiments to illustrate the Increase of Power to resist Im
     pulsion, which elastic Bodies acquire by being loaded.

An iron wire (thickness No. 1 7) was suspended by one end
from the top of a room ; the other hanging down with a round
cast iron ball, having a hole bored through it, affixed to the lower
end. The striking body, likewise, was a cast iron ball, bored
in like manner, and having the wire passing through it
so easily as to form no resistance as it fell.                                                                     d> A
                                                                                                                 (>
   In the annexed figure, A B represents the wire fas
tened at A; B the weight at bottom; C the striking
weight. In the experiments, C was let fall upon B
from various distances, C B, to ascertain the heights
necessary to break the wire when sustaining different
weights B.
The weight B had a perforated disc of lead, through
which the wire passed, laid upon to lessen or de    8, 6, 1, 2,
stroy the elasticity of the impinging bodies.           2,

                                                               9, 7, 3,Experiments.
                                                                      5,
Length Weight of Weight of                                                                    Broke with          Remarks.
           striki.nilgl'.ball  ball atB             Bore Impacts through.8, 6, 4 it,              falling
                               with lead.                                                                        No lead.
                                                                                     97         through.
                                                                                          67                     £lS5o
jt. in.00  65lbs. oz.          0 ItM. OS.008 0 1 9      2+, 3+, feet                              feet.          « t &i*t * t
                   0
25--          -- 14                --               (repeated) 2i, 3, 3+, 4, 4+ ft.           f\>*
                                10--                                              ft.         8}'
2--4          --                                    (repeated, fresh wire,) ft.
 --           --                44                         6*, ft. ...                        7+
 --           --                80                  3, 4,
 --           --                89                  6*, 7i, 8*, ft. ...                       9l+i
 --           --               125                  8i, 9i, 10, 10+ ft. ...
                                                                                              10+                The wire urn
                                                                                                                   inches from s
-- 40       00                 10  0 81                                                       6 75  inches.             thepointofin
                               80                                                                   do.                    adjusted to
                                                                                                                              wire were m
                               89                                                                   do.                          serve at the &
                                                                                                               r It broke one
                                                                                                             -}  inch from
                                                                                                               Ctop.

24 85                          44                                                                   do.
8                                  0                                                          3
116 FIFTH REPORT -- 1835.

    The bodies struck above were all single balls of cast iron,
with the flat piece of lead laid upon them.

   To ascertain the strength and extensibility of this wire, it
was broken, in a very careful experiment, with 252^ lbs. sus
pended at its lower end and laid gradually on. And to obtain
                           of             of the wire            24 feet 8
the increment              by  a portion   weight, it  (length   lbs. hung  inches)
when loaded                    a certain               had 1 39              at the

bottom, and when 89 lbs. were taken oft* that load, the wire de

creased in length "39 inch.
   Whence 89 lbs. : .39 : : 252.5 lbs. : 1·12 inch = the ultimate
extension of 24 feet 8 inches.
    .·. 1·09 inch = ultimate extension of 24 feet, or extension

of  Rtheamt alreknsg.t--h  of the wire    when   loaded to  its breaking point.
                           1st. Should    it be  suggested  that the wire by being

frequently impinged upon would perhaps be much weakened,
the author would beg to refer to a paper of his on Chain Bridges,
Manchester Memoirs, 2nd series, vol. v., where it is shown that
an iron wire broken by pressure several times in succession is
very little weakened, and will nearly bear the same weight as at
first.
    2nd. The first of the preceding experiments on wires are the
only ones from which the maximum can, with any approach to
certainty, be inferred ; and we see from them that the wire re
sisted impulsion with the greatest effect when it was loaded at
bottom with a weight which, added to that of the striking body,
was a little more than one third of the weight that would break
the wire by pressure, a conclusion which does not differ widely
from that of Cor. to Prob. 4.
    3rd. From these experiments generally^ it appears that the
wire was weak to bear a blow when lightly loaded.
    These last experiments and remarks, and some of the pre
ceding ones, show clearly the benefit of giving considerable
weight to elastic structures subject to impact and vibration ; and
the weight of greatest resistance may frequently be calculated
from the formulae in problem 4 or its corollary.
                                                            117

ObpsRbLMehtolarnoysvgevsani,,dtneioRR,ttnih..cMsANe ..F.,UAo,onn.rFF,icvt..ehReRFer...sSiDRSnit.i..y,r,SeIr.ceS8o,tfflficacoS..nDnf;dcu,,baanPnlimrddnoafbId;enyesbtseyCbonayrsCpiattothyapfeitnaNoRianfeJatvtuhmE.erdaeHTwlsuemaPCrrhrpledialhsortrsSkreoaiyeal

                                             [With a Plate.]

The observations which form the subject of the present com

munication were made during the years 1834 and '1835, in com
pliance with the recommendation of the British Association urged
in the first and second Reports of its proceedings. Their main
object has been to determine the direction of the lines of mag
netic dip and intensity in Ireland, and to make a small, but it
was hoped exact, addition to our knowledge of the laws of dis
tribution of the earth's magnetism. The observations are three
fold : first, observations of the horizontal part of the earth's
magnetic force, as determined by the time of vibration of a
needle suspended horizontally, after the method of Professor
Hansteen; secondly, observations of dip, made in the usual
manner ; and thirdly, observations of dip and intensity at the
same time, and with the same instrument, according to the
method adopted by Professor Lloyd, and already submitted to
the Association *.

                           I. Horizontal Intensity.
   The instruments employed in the first series of observations
were constructed after the model of that of Professor Hansteen.
The needles are cylinders 2$ inches long, and "13 of an inch in
diameter, suspended by a few filaments of the silkworm's thread.
They are inclosed in a small rectangular box, supported upon
levelling screws, and having a tubular pillar screwed on at top
for the silk suspension. At the bottom of the box is a divided
circle, for the purpose of noting the arc of vibration : the tempe
rature is observed by means of a small thermometer inclosed
in such a manner as to avoid contact with the bottom and sides
of the box. Before the commencement of the observations, the
bottom of the box is to be rendered truly horizontal by means
of the levelling screws on which it rests, and of a small spirit
level with which it is furnished. The needle being then sus-
   * Fourth Report, p. 557. Transactions of the Royal Irish Academy, vol. xvii.
118 FIFTH REPORT -- 1835.

pended so as to hang near the bottom, its deviation, if any, from
the horizontal             will be detected by      its inclination to
                position  be slightly moved to       one side or other      the
surface. It is  then to                                                      in
the brass stirrup by which it is supported, until it hangs truly
parallel to the lower surface of the box ; and when this adjust
ment is once accurately made, no further alteration will be re
quired, unless the change of dip be considerable.
   When an observation is to be made, the needle is raised or

lowered by a small roller to which the silk suspension is at
            sthuarftacietsmoafythheanbgoxa. boIutt
tached, so                                           midway between the upper
and lower                                           is then drawn aside from the

magnetic meridian through an arc of 25° or 30°, by a piece of
brass wire inserted in the side of the box, and is allowed to os
cillate. The registry of the oscillations is commenced when the
amplitude of the vibration on either side of the meridian is re
duced to 20°, and it is continued during 360 vibrations ; the
moment of the completion of every 10th vibration during that
interval being noted by a chronometer. The amplitude of the
final arc, or of the arc of the 360th vibration, is also observed ;
and the temperature of the air in the box, as indicated by the
interior thermometer, is noted at the beginning and end of the

observation.

  It is obvious that in this manner seven intervals of time are

obtained, each corresponding to 300 vibrations, -- viz. the interval

between the  Oth  and 300dth vibration,             b3e6t0wtheen; --tahned  10th and
             and  between the 60th and                                      the mean
310th, &c,
of these is taken as the result. But to this result several cor

rections must be applied.
    1 . The time as shown by the chronometer is to be corrected

for rate; and accordingly the chronometer's rate must be deter
mined from time to time by comparison with a good timekeeper,
or by astronomical observations. In the present series the rate
was observed at the commencement and end of each group of
observations by the former and easier method. The amount
of the correction due to rate is in most cases very small, the cor
rection in the time of 100 vibrations corresponding to a daily rate
of 2" being less than 0"'01 with the slowest of the needles

employed.

   2. Professor Hausteenhas applied a correction for the arc of
vibration, so as to reduce the time to that corresponding to in
finitely small arcs. The correction is investigated on the same

principles as  that usually applied                 to pendulum observations.
               more complicated in                  its form ; for, instead of a
It is however
single series of vibrations, (as in the case of the pendulum,) we
have here seven distinct series, each commencing from a different
           MAGNETICAL OBSERVATIONS IN IRELAND.                                119

arc. The principle, however, seems         hardly applicable in the
                                           the successive arcs of vi
present instance. It is assumed that
bration decrease in geometric progression, as they must necessa

rily do if the resistance of the air be proportional to the velocity.
This is found to hold good in the vibrations of the pendulum
when the arcs are very small; but it is by no means true when
they are so considerable as those in which the horizontal mag
nettc pendulum is made to vibrate. Where, however, the vi
brations commence from the same arc, and the terminal arc does
not
      much vary, the correction            itself may perhaps be   disregarded.
In   the following observations,             in which the initial  arc was 20°,
the 360th or terminal arc was generally 2£°, and was in all cases

included between the limits 1° and 4°. In such cases, then,
the correction must be, nearly, a constant quantity ; its appli
cation to the observed times is therefore nearly equivalent to
their multiplication by a constant coefficient, and the ratio of the
times (with which alone we are concerned in this class of ob
servations) remains unaltered. For these reasons no attempt has
been made to introduce a correction for the arcs in the following
results ; but the terminal arcs are given, so as to put the reader
in possession of all the circumstances of the observation.
   3. By   farIfthTe'                      correction is
                       most important      time of 100    that due to tem
perature.               be the observed                   vibrations corre

                                           and the corrected time
sponding to the actual temperature         t',

                                                  t, T
corresponding to the standard temperature the correction           ;

                       T-T'=aT' (t-t);                                 is

La bring constant coefficient whose value to be determinedis
       Laexperimentally for each needle.
                                           L
                                        aThe following observations were made with the cylindersL
   («), (A), in order to determine the value of the coefficient
a for each. The apparatus being inclosed in large glass bell,a
the time of 100 vibrations of cylinder (a), commencing with
the arc of 10°, was observed at the mean temperature of the
room, and. when the air of the bell was heated artificially from
below, by means of spirit lamp. The final arc varied between
4° and 5°. The observations with cylinder (A), were made in

the bell without the apparatus. In this case no means were

taken to observe with any accuracy the arc of vibration and
in order to reduce as much as possible any error arising from
this source, the observations were continued in each instance
until the arcs were reduced to the smallest appreciable, and the
mean of the last five intervals of 100 vibrations then taken as
the result. The chronometer's rate varied from 0"-G to l"-4
                                                          +
                                                                           +
120 FIFTH REPORT 1835.

per diem, and had therefore no appreciable influence on the re
sults.

Cylinder L(a).                                       Cylinder L (A).

Date.    Hour. Time. Temp.                           Date.         Hour.         Time. Temp.^

March             h. m.    s.      o   March                             h· hi.    ».       "I
         4. 1 42                                            19. · , 11 7         293.48    530
                         24264   54.5                                            292.52    550
                 1 55    242.82  54.5                                 11 40      '294 -00  60.3 '
                         242.30  58.8                                            293.7«    59.5i
         8. 3 46         242.24  58.0                                   2 42     293.44.
                 4 4i    242.50  56.5                                 35         295.24    571
                         243.96  82.5                                Mean                  80.0 |
             i Mean      243.96  83.1                                            295.20    83.3
         1. 3 44         243.94  74.5                                 12 50      295.22    fil.61
                         243.95  80.0
                 4 10                                                   1 16
         8. 2 6                                                      Mean

               Mean

The constant coefficient sought is to he calculated                              from      the

formula                  a = vT(t-T-?'y

in which t and t are the two temperatures, and T and T' the
- T -corresponding times of vibration. We find
Cyl.L(a). T' = 242".50, T                            = l".45, t                  t' = 23°.5

Cyl. L (£).         -a = .000254                                   -t t' = 24°.5

              T' = 293".44, T T' = l".78,
                            a = .000248.

Stopping at   the fifth decimal        p.l0a0c0e2, 5t.hen,Itthise  coefficient for tem
perature for  both cylinders is                                    to be observed that

these cylinders were made at the same time, and were therefore
probably tempered to the same degree ; and to this circumstance
we may, with much probability, ascribe the close agreement in
the values of the constant which determines the effects of tem

perature upon the force of the needle.
   No observations were made to determine directly the effects
of temperature upon the other needles employed in the course
of these observations ; and, in correcting the results obtained
with them, the coefficient employed by M. Hansteen, viz.,

  * A series of observations      had been made      with   this   cylinder, in the        same
                                 as those with cyl.         ; but  the results were        unsa
manner and on the same days                          L (a)
tisfactory, some of them indicating; an increase of force with increased tempera
ture. Such contradictor)' results have been noticed by many observers, and are
usually attributed to the disturbing effects of currents of air, determined by ine
quality of temperature.
MAGNET1CAL OBSERVATIONS IN IRELAND.                         121

·00017, has been that adopted. The standard temperature (t),
to which all the results contained in the following pages are re
duced, is 60° Fahr.

  4. All that we know of the diurnal variations of the intensity
of the horizontal force, is due to M. Hansteen and Professor
Christie. These writers agree in fixing the hours of minimum
intensity at 10£ a.m. The intensity then increases, and attains
its maximum, according to Professor Christie, at about 74 p.m.
The amount of this maximum is 1"0024 in summer, the minimum
intensity being unity ; but this amount, as well ias the hour of
its occurrence, changes with the season. Of the law according
to which the force varies between its two limiting values, we
know nothing ; and it is therefore impossible, in the present
state of our knowledge,      to apply a correction for these varia
                             to evade this difficulty, in the ensuing
tions. It was proposed
observations, by observing at a fixed hour. To this limitation,
however, it was found impracticable to adhere, and the results

still remain uncertain by the amount of the diumal change.
   5. The variations of the magnetic force give rise to another
and still graver class of errors. The least experience in obser
vations of this nature is enough to prove that the horizontal in
tensity is, from some cause or other, subject to irregular fluctu
ations ; and these fluctuations, like those of the barometer in

our climates,   are much more  considerable than the regular horary
               seems probable  that these variations in the intensity
changes. It
of the horizontal force are, like those in its direction, not local

phenomena, but occur at the same time at places widely sepa
rated. To eliminate them from our results, therefore, it would

suffice to have a regular series of observations made at some fixed
station, cotemporaneous with those made at the different sta

tions ; and, if these be not very remote, we may assume that the

variation of the observed force at each from its mean amount is

the same as that observed at the same time at the fixed station.

Unhappily these means of freeing the results from the admixture
of what may be called accidental phenomena have not been
attended to in the following, or indeed in any similar series of
observations, and there is reason to believe that the errors due
to this cause are the largest in amount of any by which the
present series is affected.
The amount of these fluctuations, from day to day, may be
judged of from the following specimen of a series of observations
such as that alluded to, commenced by Captain Sabine in the
month of June 1835. The apparatus in which the needle was
vibrated was unmoved during the continuance of the series, and
the needle remained permanently suspended. The height of the
    I2!2 FIFTH REPORT 1835.
    barometer was noted, as well as the temperature ; the hour of
    observation was, nearly, 10 a.m.

    Time of 200 Vibrations of a Standard Needle.

    Date.        Barom.  Therm.     Tunc.

    June  15.   inch        0        s.
    July  16.   30.260    66.0   1139.60
          17.   30.268    64.5   1138.20
          18.   30. 188   62.0   1138.27
          19.   30.188    61.0   1135.87
          20.   30.200    59.0   1136.67
          21.   30.080    62.0   1135.93
          22.                    1137.67
          23.   29.640    620    1138.53
          24.   29.682    61.0   1138.40
          25.   29.360    59.0   1137.80
          26.   29.850    57.5   1136.87
          27.   29.580    57.0   1136.70
          29.   30.165    57.0
          30.   30.120    57.0   113713
                29.820    59.0   1137.80
            2.  29.900   580     1137.73
            4.  29.850    62.0   1137.30
            5.  29.650    60.5   1138.73
           6.   30000     60.0   1139.53
            7.  29.850    58.5   1136.60
                          59.0   1137.87

        The mean time of 200 vibrations, deduced from these results,
    is 1137".66 at the temperature 600,6. But the time observed
    on the 18th of June is 1135"·87 at 610,0; so that on this day
    the rate of the needle was less than the mean by 1""79, a differ
    ence which corresponds to an increase of ·003 in the horizontal

    force. The observation of the 5th of July exhibits a difference

    somewhat greater on the other side.
    . 6. The last source of error which requires to be noticed under
    this head, is the change of the magnetic condition of the needles
    employed. Independently of the derangements of magnetic
    equilibrium induced by the presence of iron, or other disturbing

    causes, it is well known that most needles lose something of
    their original force. This loss is greatest at first ; and the needle,
    if originally well tempered and then magnetized to saturation, is
    usually found to arrive at a nearly settled state in about a year.
    Most of the cylinders employed in the following observations
    seem to have reached that condition ; and the changes of mag
    netic state which they have exhibited are, except in the case of
    Cyl. S (A), unimportant. In order to detect any such changes,
    and to correct for them if they arise, it is necessary to observe at

*\
         MAGNETICAL OBSERVATIONS IN IRELAND.                      123

the place chosen as the base of reference, at the termination of
Ifeach series of observations, as well as at their commencement.

    it is then found that the needle has lost any small portion of

its force, or if the time of vibration has augmented, the amount
of the correction due to each result may be found by assuming

the change to have been regular, or proportional to the time
elapsed. When the loss is very small, however, (as was the case
in the observations which form the subject of this paper,) the
correction may be disregarded, provided we take as the time of
vibration at the base of reference the mean of the times observed

at the commencement and end of the series.
                               in
L  The   nLee(dbl)e,s   used  by    the present  series are the cylinders
   (a),                made        Dollond, and
                                                 belonging to Mr. Lloyd ;
acynldinRde(rd) Sin(b)thbeeploosnsgeisnsgionto                    aRnodssc.ylinAdellrstheRci(rc)
                                                Captain Sabine,
                                                of Captain James
cumstances of the observations are given in the annexed Table.
The first, second, and third columns contain the place, day of the
month, and hour of the observation. In the fourth column is

set down the observed time of 100 vibrations, or the immediate

result of observation divided by 3. The fifth column contains

the terminal arc, the initial arc being in all cases 20°. In the
sixth column is given the chronometer's rate; in the seventh the
temperature ; and in the eighth the deduced or corrected time.
The hour, set down in the third column as the hour of obser
vation, is the mean of the commencement and end ; and the re

corded temperature       is   also the mean     of  those observed at the be
ginning and end of     the    observation.
                                                It  will appear from the pre
ceding that the corrections employed in deducing the corrected
from the observed times are those due to temperature and to the
rate of the chronometer.

   Beside the observations which follow there were some others
of an earlier date, made for the purpose of comparing the hori
zontal intensity at Dublin and Limerick, the two stations with
which all the other places in Ireland have been immediately com
pared. In the observations alluded to, the rate of cylinder S (b),
was observed in the Philosophy School, Trinity College; and the
local attraction of the building was determined by subsequent
comparisons of the force there with that in the garden, Trinity
College, the place which was afterwards selected for all the Dub
lin observations. These earlier comparisons, as well as some
other imperfect ones obtained previously to the autumn of 1834
with two other cylinders, have not been included in the annexed
Tables ; partly because the needles employed do not seem to be
as trustworthy as the rest, but chiefly because of the uncer
tainties of the double comparison which they involve.
124 FIFTH KEFOftT -- 1835.

                                    Table I.

                Time of Vibration of Cylinder S (b) *.

"-               | Date.            Hour.        Time.   Arc. Rate. Temp. Corr. Time.

      Place f.

                                    hm                   *§CD            660    399.82
                                                                         670 i
                    July  23.         1 44       400.23  S3 r-     «.o          399.85
                          25..                   400.33                  .62.5  401.02
                                     2 14        40119   a=.  5     ···  61.5
                                                              m          64 2   400.67
                                    ]£ 20        400.77  W§         ...         400.34
                                                                    ...  650
                                    12 50                                       389.81
                                                                         66.2
                    Mean                         400.63  30 -6·3         660    389.67
                                                 39014   30                     389.94
                    Aug. 20.        11 22                                62.7   389.80
                                    11 46        390 08                  630    389.68
                 ·                                                       62.5   389.53
                                                                                389.65
                                    12 44        390.34  2.5 1 ...       62.0   389.98
                                                                         63 0
                 ! 21. 10 58                     389.98  2.5       ···   62.5   389.76
                                          11 29  389.88                         389.75
                                                         30        ...   610    389.66
                                                                                389.73
                                        12 0     389.70  2.8       ...   61.5   389.75
                                    · 12 31      389.78                         389.34
                                                         30        ···   60.5   389.25
                                                                         60.5
                 . 22. 10 47                     390.18  2.5       ···   60.5   38970
                                                 389.93                         389.50
                                    11 17        389.82  30 i      ...   610    389.53
                                                         30        ...          389.63
                 i                  11 47        389.76  30              57.0   38963
                                    12 33                          ···   57.5   389.66
                                                                         56.5   403 63
                          23. 10 57              389.76  2.5       ···          404.15
                                                         30              57.0   40214
                                    11 37        389.78            ...   57-G   403.56
                                                 389.37 · 30             61.2,
                                    12 13                30        ···   610    405 01

                                    12 45        389.32            ···   620    404 70
                                                                         660    396.43
                 '        27- 10 27              389.50  2.8       ...
                                    11 2                                 65.5
                                                 389.33  2.5       ···
                                    11 36                2.5             53.5
                                                 389.30            ...
                                    12 13        389.43  30              52.0
                                                 389.43  30        ···   510

                                    12 49

                    Mean                         389.74  ... ...
                                                 403.70          00
Ballybunan ...      Sept. 9.        12 17
Glengariff ...                 16.   5 20        404.29  '8w       ·..
                                                 402.55            ...
                              27.   11 20        40393   1?o.re '
                    Oct. 4.                                        ...
                                    11 40        404.56  fS5S

Tulla                      9. 12 43              404.16
Tempi em ore...           12 8 50
                          17. 8 36               39582

   · The observations in London made by Captain James Ross; all the others
w--PaittrKhki.lLlt--aihmrinsBeeanryielc,leykdb,lMuegnuaabcrnydro,eCsnfsaiepaltddtaeiSnmaodemjSsonaeiebnr.ivinni--elgl.eT,tuhoellnae,inmnK.i--illetaGnfrloeonnm,gatrMoifwfr,.n.M--Mro.LlooEuncydc'olsens,'gsaRgredagerednne.t--n's.
Templemorc, Sir H. Garden's grounds ; local attraction suspected.
             MAGNETICAL OBSERVATIONS IN IRELAND.                                                               125

                        Table I.-- (Continued.)

    Place·.  Date.                   Hour.   Time.   Arc. Kate. Temp. Corr.Time.

             Oct.              19.   bm      40216   ·8 m         it                                  55.0     402.50
             Dec.              29.    90     40416                                                    55.5
             July                    12 6    399.93  CO  ,,TM    00                                   48.0     404.47
                                 2.   3 45           .°            ...                                42.0     400.75
                               10.     2 45  402.67               ...                                          403.89
                                       2 43  402.36  10            ...                                700      401.68
                                 4.          402.38                ...                                         401.63
                                      3 14   401.84                                                   71.0
                               5.     9 54           1.5          ...                                 620      401.70
                                     10 21   401.73               ...                                 64.0     401.46
                                             40102   10                                                        401.02
                                     11 15   401.50                 ·.·                               600      401.36
                                     11 46           1.5            ···                               620
                                             401.74                                                   640      401.47
                                      4 48   401.36  20           ...                                 650      401.02
                                       9 53  401.96                                                   680      401.42
                                     10 30   400.96  1.5           ...
                                       9 32  401.09                ...                                60.0     400.96
                                     10 6    401.53  1.5           ·..                                         400.95
                                     10 43                         ...                                620      401.26
                          6.                 401.62  2.0                                              640      401.33
                                       40    413.54            -12.                                            412.41
                          7.         13 58   412.83  20                                               64.3     412.35
                                             41318   20            ...                                         412.38
                   Mean                                            ...                                76.2
             July 27.                                1.5                                              66.8

                        28.                          1.5                                              71.5
                   Mean
                                                     ···

                                                     ···

                                                     ···

                                                     ...

             Time of Vibration of Cylinder L(a)t.

    Placet.  Date.                   Hour.   Time.   Are, Rate. Temp. Corr.Time.

                         Sept   9.    hm     243.26            o.o                                    600      243.26
Ballybunan ...                         1 23          ...                                              630      243.69
Glengariff" ...                17.   10 35   243.87                                                            241.80
                               27.   12 0    242.29   ··· ···                                         68.0     24209
                         Oct.        12 15   242.46                                                            24300
                                 4.    1 14  243.16  40 + 15.                                         660      24400
                                 8.    2 31          30 + I·                                          620      244.11
                                       2 50  243.71                                                            243.58
                               10.     24    243.81  3.5                                              55.2
                                             243.52  3-5 , , ,                                                 243.90
                       11.             2 22  243.68   ··· ...                                         550
                   Mean                2 16  246.23  3.5 ...                                          590      246.88
                                             246.30
                        14.                  246.26  40 ...                                           56.4     246.87
                                                      ... ...                                                  246.88
                        15.                                                                           49.5
                   Mean
                                                                                                      50.7
                                                                                                      501

   · Clonmel, Darling Hill ; garden adjoining the house. -- Fermoy, field near
the river.

    t The first five observations, and those of December 19, 21, 23, 1835, made
    tCaDputabilnin,SaPbrinoveo. st'sAlglatrhdeeno, thTerrsiniwtyithCotlhleisgen. e--edlAermbyagMh,r.  Lloyd.
by                                                                                                    grounds

                                                                                                               oi' the ob

servatory.
126 FIFTH REPORT -- 1835.

                        Table I. -- {Continued.)

Place·.          Date.       Hour.   Time.   Arc. Rate. Temp. Corr.Time.

                 Oct.   21.   hm     247.49  2.5 +2.0             50.2  248.10
                        23.   2 57   24800   2.5                  51.8
Enniskillen ...         24.    1 22  24709                        38.5  248.51
Dublin                  25.   3 45   243.14  3.5 ·-·                    248.42
                        28.   3 24   243.39                       45.7  24401
                              30     243.49  40                   530   243.82
                 Mean         3 26                                530
                                     243;34  3.5                  50.6  243.92
                 Aug. 19.     2 36   243.81  4.5 ...                    243.92
                              2 35            ... ...             720   24306
                        21.   32     249.30                       69.2
                               1 50  249.90  30 +?3                     248.71
                        22.  12 0                                 71.5  24916
                              3 58   250.40  3.5 .··              69.5
Belmullet ...           24.   3 16   249.35                             249.79
Achill Ferry...               3 42   24819   20 ...               692
                        25.   2 52   24606   15                         248.76
Oughterard...                  1 46  244.44  20 ...               59.8  248.18
                        26.    1 55          20                         24619
Cork                           3 15  243.45  40                   575
Waterford ...           27.    3 35  241.50  2.0 ...              75.2  243.49
Broadway ...            28.          242.48                       67.8
                               48    241.24  3.5                  69.5  242.96
                        29.    55            2.5 ...              690
                               2 29  241.26                       66.5  240.90
                        31.    2 36  241.25  20                   662   241.92
                               32            20 ...               664   240.83
                 Sept.  1.           243.47                       630
                        2.   11 48   243.70  2.5 ···                    240.87
                              2 44   243.92   ... ...             57.8  240.85
Rathdrum ...     Mean                24314   3.5 ...
Dublin                  3.   12 43                                602   243.27
                                     243.73  40 +60               638   243.81
                     12.             24362   40                         243.89
                     14.             23651                        63.5  242.89
                     15.             236.65  2.5                  61.3  243.50
                                     236.63                             243.52
                 Mean                        30 ...               68.6  235.98
                     19.             236.60                       69.4
                                                             ···        23607
                     22.                                          72.2  235.89
                 Mean                        30 ···                     235.98
                                             20 ...               70.1
                                             3.5 ...

                                                         ...

rob-iSts--nohupeoecream·Brakncoeet.huowC--rl,nvmwfoaiidnenloWmuleele.ddlda.,al--.ernt--ta--eef,EwneranRfirrCootonranhoryptitdshre.htk--tk,enhda,iedlrlrlflLedueiibveememtneremel,eeda,rnesec.anfs--snhdi.ennee,e--ea,lEmdarafnieBdteonntsjalnheeodnisleaxeil,nitrtanhrbietonaetaompoge,rfwerxibatonttnAyachrp.enkveefm--skonioe.rsniiltfvd--MdfyieBoeaarrlnlfSdroo,eetkafrrsarinad;ivKredebheeeidaaalrt,erlnv,oeoeeedwtprpn,obepyn.wemo.twnhsaw----eiaontse;eronebALdoennoi.pctmouo--ehorwCsne.ifhnlroLl--eti.frcohilFk--etkeneelO,ddrarcuBornagfygarndsrao,dht,orlatjdemBooeWd,elnirwnanaespciautrsnakhdnyatgre.-.,t,t

bourne Green, Harrow Road.
                 MAGNETICAL OBSERVATIONS IN IRELAND.                     127

                            Table I. -- (Continued.)

         Place.  Date.             Hour.    Time.   Rate. Temp. Corr.Tlme.

London           Oct. 23.           hm      23509   30 +7.8        52.4  235.52
Dublin ...                  24.      1 18   23505   30                   235.35
Limerick                           11 45    235.12                 54.5  235.39
Dublin..               Mean         2 23    235.09  3.fi                 235.42
Dublin ...       Nov. 5.                    24318                  550   243.51
                                     1 4(i  243.35  30             540   244.06
                               6.  12 21            30                   24404
                                            243.37                 54.2
                       Mean          1 55   243.30  3.5                  243.87
                 Dec. 19.                   24303          +4.0    48.0  243.90
                                   11 40    242.36                       243.81
                            21.    12 1!)   242.68  40 +5.5        48.7  244.32
                            23.    11 17                           50.3  24401
                       Mean                 242.69  4.0                  243 96
                 Dec. 29.            1 31   243.22                 45.5  243.95
                                     1 52   243.18  30                   24395
                       Mean                 243.20  40             360   244.24
                 Jan. 11.          11 21            20             330   24403
                                   11 44    242.67                       244.43
                             12.   10 12    242.48                 38.2  244.23
                       Mean                 242.86
                                                                   47.6
                                            242.67                 470

                                                                   473

                                                                   33.8
                                                                   340
                                                                   33.8

                                                                   33.9

                 Time of Vibration of Cylinder L (b) ·.

Placet.          Date.             Hour.     Time.  Arc. Rate. Temp. Corr. Time.

Ballybunan ...   Sept.    9.        hm      292.55             ii  60.2  292.54
Glengariff ...   Oct.               2 14    292.25           00          292.10
                        17.        10 3     293.15   ·-· ...       620
                        27.        12 24    292.15                 680   292.57
                                   12 38    292.51   ···           680   291.57
                         4.          1 38   292.92                       292.31
                          8.        25      292.72   ··· ...       62.0
                                            292.82  4.0 + 15.            292.72
Dublin                 Mean          1 34   292.73  40             620   292.52
                 Oct. 11.           2 50    292.78                 620   292.63
                                            294.65   ···                 292.84
Carlingford ...  Mean                1 45   295.89                 62.5
                      13.            1 55   295.70  1.5 + 10             292.74
                                     1 45   295.80                 58.5  294.69
                      14.                           2.5            60.5  296.56
                      15.                                                296.25
                 Mean                               30             59.5  296.40

                                                    2.5            510

                                                    30             52.5
                                                     ... ...       51.8

  t· First six observations,    and those of 21st and 23rd     of December 1833,
                              All the others with this needle  by Mr. Lloyd,
made by Captain Sabine.
Carlingford, open field east of town.
128 FIFTH REPORT -- 1835.

                      Table I. -- {Continued.)

Place·.             Date.            Hour.    Time.   Arc. Rate. Temp. Corr. Time.

                     Oct. 18.         hm      293.64                //  4^.5  294.55
                               20.    43      294.61
                                     121844   294.12  3d +20            576   294.78
                          Mean                        30                      294 66
                               21.     2 28'  297.07
                                     12 57    29760   ... 52.5                297.71
                               23.            296.50                          298.22
Cam                                    3 14           2.0 51.2
Enniskillen ...                24.    40      292.70                          297.83
Dublin                                 2 36   293.14  2.5 51.5                293.60
                               25.            292.92
Dublin                                33      29370   30 42.0                 29357
                               28.            300.14  3.9 ... 46.8            293.62
                          Mean       12 45    30084   3.5 540                 292.80
                    Aug. 19.           1 57   300.49                          299.60
                                              30175   ··· 50.4                299.91
                               21.    2 29    302.23
                                     12 26    301.98  2.0 +7.3          72.0  299.75
                      Mean                    302.10  20                66.8  300.53
                                       1 15   300.61
                            22.               298.65  20                720   301/8
                    · 24.              1 35   296.34   ...                    301.2f
                                      3 32    294.61                    69.4  301.52
                                      2 53
Belmullet ...                         3 18    292.97  ins. 75.7               299.98  :
                                      2 26    289.58                          298.66  '
                         Mean          1 11   292.13  10 65.5                 296.44  ,
                               25.     1 29   290.21  10 690                  293.52  f
                               26.    2 46    292.95   ··· ... 67.2           292.38
                                      3 42    29316                                   '
 Achill Ferry                  27.    4 41            1.5 68.0                2S8.97
,;Oughterard . . .             28.    23      293.47                          291.51
                               29.    29      293.62  1.5 59.5                289.64
                               31.            293.42
                    Sept. 1.         11 20    284.46  30 58.2                 292.67
                                      3 19    284.51  1.5 ... 74.5
                                 2.           285.03                          293.27
                                 3.  12 17            2.5 67.8                293.38
                               12.            284.67                          293.27
Cork       ...                  14.  12 53    28265   1.5 68.2                293 31
Waterford  ...                  15.  12 12            1.5 ... 68.2            283.80
                          Mean       12 33    282.76  1.5 ... 67.5            284.05
Broadway   ...                  19.           282.84
Rathdrum                               1 57   282.34  30 63.5                 284.17
Dublin                                        282.65  30 +6K) 58.2            28401
                                       1 19   292.61                          28317
                                     11 55    292.59  3.5 · 61.0              283.24
                                                                              283.31
London                                 2 23   292.67  2.5 64.5
                                              29262    .., ·· 61.2            282.72
                                                                              28311
                                                      20 690                  292.95
                                                                              293.38
                               22.                    2.5 66.2                293.49
                          Mean
                    Oct. 23.                          30 ... 71.8             293.27

                               24.                     ··· 690

                                                      2.5 +7;8 52.2

                                                      2.5 52.8

                                                      30 530
                                                      30 54.2

Dublin                    Mean                         ··· 530
                    Nov. 5j
                                                      2.5 550
                                 6.                   20 488
                                                      30 48.4
                         Mean                          ... 50.7

   · Colerain, demesne adioining the town ; spot near river surrounded by tall
trees ; local attraction apparently due to basalt.
                 UAGNETICAi. OBSERVATIONS IN IRELAND.                                                                                      129

                            Table I. -- {Continued.)

         Place.  Date.                            Hour.               Time.    Arc. Rate. Temp. Corr. Time.

Dublin           Dec. 21.            h in                                  ti         + 4.0     360                                        292.84
Dublin                                16                              291.10         + 40       360
                            23.       1 44                                                      33.2                                       292.88
                       Mean         11 53                             291.14   2.5 +5.5         351
                                                                      291.49   2.5                                                         293.44
                            29.     12 44                             291.24                    49.7                                       29305
                                      18                                       2.0                                                         29315
                       Mean                                           292.42                    47.8                                       29306
                 Jan. 11.           10 55                             29219    20               48.8                                       29310
                                    10 37                             292.30               ...  35.2                                       293.64
                             12.                                      291.85
                       Mean                                           291.81                    32.5                                       293.80

                                                                      291.83                    33.8                                       293.72

                 Time of Vibration of Cylinder R *.
                                                                               +
        Placet.  Date.                            Hour.               Time.          (c)Arc. Rate. Temp. Corr. Time.

                 July             8.                     m            440.08    o it                                                 58.0  440 22
                                          7h            34                     1.5 1.4                                                     440.56
                               10.               910                  440.57   1.5                                                   600
                             14.                  12 20               44103                                                          640   440.72
                             15.  9.                    17            441.33   20                                                    660   440.88
                                           4 62 4 11 26               441.93   20 ·.«                                                570   44215
                             16.                         15           441.55   10                                                    610   441.46
                                                 7      10            441 06   10                                                    610
                              18.                 11                                                                                 640   440.97
                             19.                        47   6        441.76   1.0                                                   620   441.45
                        Mean                      10 41               441.78   1.5                                                   580   441.62
                                                         51  7 82     441.31   1.2      .,,                                          540   441.45
                 July 27.                         11 11                        1.5                                                 11660   441.42
                                                         31  8        440.97   1.5 ··-                                                     442.81
                             28.                        24         2  443.26   1.0                                                   700   442.64
                                                        39            443.40   1.5                                                   550   441.23
                                                  11 35      37       440.86   1.5                                                   520
                                                                      441.19                                                         640   441.78
                                                  10 14               442.68   10                                                    570   442.37
                                                        35            441.53   10                                                    650   441.75
                                                                      443.32   10                                                          442.93
                                                         .r,7         441.00   10                                                    48.0  441.89
                                                  12 39               441.61                                                         601   441.59
                                                                      453.31   1.5                                                         452.65
                                                        40            454.60                                                         68.5  454.59
                                                             11       454.06   1.5 + 1.2                                             600   45413
                                                                   7           20                                                    590   454.25
                                                                      454-18                                                         590
                                                                               1.5
                                                                               2.0

· Observed by Captain James Ross.                                        Road.-- Limerick,                                                 at Somer-
        London, Westbourne Green, Harrow
t                                                                                               garden

vffle.                                                                k

1835.
130 FIFTH REPORT 1835.

                        Table I. -- {Continued.)

         Place ·.  Date.            Hour.    lime.   Arc. Rate. Temp. Corr. Time.

                   July 28.          li m    453.84    0                   600      453.83
  i.                                 2 19                                  590
                               29.   2 49    453.70  1.8 + 1.2                      453.77
                                     3 22    453.82  2.e . -.              60.0     453.81
                         Mean       11 0     45400   2.0 , . ,             56.0
                   Aug. 16.         11 31    453.88  2.2                            454.30
                                    12 0     45404   2.2 ···               57.0     454.10
                         Mean                453.94  20 ···                590      45411
                   Aug. 19.           7 21   453.90                        69.8     453.95
                                      7 51           2.6                   560      434.20
                          Mean        8 21   453-69                        560      453.99
                   Aug. 30.                          20 ···
                                     83      453.77  20                    57.0     453-99
                               31.  10 0     453.79                        56.3     45406
                                    10 30    464.39                   ··-           464.85
                         Mean                46517   1.8                   54.0     465.32
                                      9 41   465.02                        58.0
                                    10 10            20 ···                58.0     46517
                                    10 38    464.86  20 ...                         46511
                                                                           56.7
                                     9 3a    440.72                   ···  60.0     440.71
                                             441.52                        610      441.43
                                    11 9             2.5 ...               610      441.63
                                    12 37    441.72  2.0 ···                        441.23
                                             440.86  20 ···                55.0     441.55
                                             441.41  2.0 ...               580
                                             44204   20 ···                58.0     442.18
                                             441.38  2.0 ···                        441.46
                                                                           58.5
                                                                ...

                   Time of Vibration of Cylinder R (d) f.

   Place.          Date.            Hour,    Time.   Arc. Rate. Temp. Corr. Time.

                   July 19.          hm      437.75   o                    5&0      43789
                                     9 44    438.10                        590      43817
                               20.  10 30    438.39  10 + 1.4              620      438.23
                         Mean       11 44    438.30  10                    640      43800
                                      1 31   439.18                                 438.72
                   July 29.          36      438.55  1.2                   660      438.54
                                     7 19    439.26                        600      43918
                                     9 54    440.06  10                    610      439.82
                                    10 39            10                    630
                                             438.70  1.0 ...                        438.57
                                      1 18   449.17  10                    61.6     44916
                                      1 5ft  450.05                                 449.96
                                      2 41   449.16  1.0                   600
                                                                           610      449.00
                                                     20 + 1.2              620
                                                     20
                                                     20 ...

,

   · Dublin, Provost's Garden, Trinity       College. --Markrce,           demesne  of castle ;
·pot surrounded by lofty trees.

   1 Observed by Captain James Ross.
               MAGNETICAL OBSERVATIONS IN IRELAND.              131

                          Table I. -- (Continued.)

       Plan..  Date.           Hour.   Time.   Arc. Hate. Temp. Corr.Timc.
Limerick
               July 30.         li m   449.89   o //      550   450.27      ;
Dublin                         10 41   449.89             560   45019       ;
                          31.  11 10   449.80  2.0 + 1.2  560   45010       ,
                               11 40           20         570   449.99
                     Mean      12 14   449.77  1.5              45015       '
               Aug. 14.        11 29   449-70  1.5        54.0  450.06      i
                               11 58   449.76  20         560   45013
                     Mean      12 28   449.91  20               45006
               Aug. 19.        12 58   449.92  2.0        57.0  449.92
                                               20         580
                          20.   0 36   449.73                   452.27
                     Mean        75    45182   2'5        575   452.07
               Aug. 28.          7 35  451.62             54.0  451.99
                                       451.61  30         540   452.11
                          29.  11 40   451.68  30         550
                               12 10   462.19             54.3  462.26
                    Mean               462.00   . ··      590
                                8 37   462.54  2.5        59.0  462.07
                                       462.24  2.5              463.00
                                7 16           2.5        54.0
                                7 56   437.91                   462.44
                                9 48   438.42  20         57.3  438.43
                                9 31   439.01             53.0
                               10 13   439.43  2.5              438.71
                               10 42   439.52  2.5        56.0  43900
                                       439.60  2.0              439.42
                                       438.98             60.0  439.51
                                               20
                                                          600   439.36
                                               2.5        600   43907
                                                ...
                                                          63.0

                                                          58.7

                                       K2
132 FIFTH REPORT -- 1835.

     II.The computed results of the preceding observations are given
in Table          The first and second columns contain the place
and the date of the observations; the third the name of the

needle employed ; in the fourth column is given the mean time
of 100 vibrations, corrected for temperature and for the rate of
                                                                 isnitxetnhsitcyol;u--mnthse
the chronometer;   and the fifth and                                                          contain the
computed values   of the horizontal                                                           numbers in

the fifth column being the ratios of the horizontal intensity at the
place of observation to that at the station of the observer, and
those in the sixth being the ratios of the same force to that at Lon
        to which  place all the
Ifdon,            the reduced                      observations are ultimately referred.
        T denote                                   time of 100 vibrations at any place, and
T that at the station with which it is immediately compared, and
if A and h' be the horizontal intensities at the two places, the
numbers of the fifth column are computed from the formula

                                                   A  ~  \(  ZT  Y),

                                                   W

Again, if ht denote the horizontal intensity in London, the ratio

-hv!-will be determined in the same manner; and, multiplying by

it the numbers in the fifth column, we obtain the values of-hrj or
                                                                                        ;

                                                                                                  it

                                                                                                              hi.
the ratios of the horizontal intensity at the places of observation
to that at London, as given in the sixth and last column.
     The stations with which all the other places in Ireland are
immediately compared are Dublin and Limerick and will at
once appear that, as the ratios of the horizontal force at these
stations to that at London enter as factors in all the final results,
much accuracy required in their determination. For this pur
pose we have three distinct series of observations. In the first
and second the intensities of the horizontal force in Dublin andI.
Limerick are directly compared with that in London and in the
                            is                                                                ;

third                                           .these intensities areincoTmapbaleredII.,toagreethheer.reThe resultsof
these   comparisons, given                                                              put together,              so

as to be seen at one view.

        Horizontal intensity                       in Dublin, the horizontal intensity in
London being unity.
                                                      Cyl.   R(c).    .. ....  In--t.   -- ,9456
          July, Aug. 1835                                    R(rf).                            9421
                                                             L(a).    ..
             September, 1835                                 L(6).    .
                                                             L(«).    .. .... --
           Oct., Nov., 1835.                                 L(6).    .. .... --                 ,9390

                                                                               --                ,9376
                                                                               --
                                                                      ..                         ,9319
                                                                                                 ,9319
                                                                      .. ....  Mean = -9380
         MAGNETICAL. OBSERVATIONS IN IRELAND.                                133

  II. Horizontal intensity in Limerick, the horizontal intensity

in London being unity.

July, Aug., Sept. 1834  ...  C--yl.  S --(6)            In--t.  = 9396
July, 1835                    --     R (c)               --
July, August 1835            --      R(rf)              --            -9470
                                                                      -9461
                                                                      -9513
                                              Mean = -9460
         4

  III. Horizontal intensity in Limerick, the horizontal intensity

in Dublin being unity.

Sept., Oct., 1834            C--yl.  L  (a)   Int. = 10064
                              --     L  (6)             -- 1-0044
.                             --     R                  -- 1-0005
                              --     R  (e)             --
July, Aug. 1835               --     L  (d)                     10098
                              --     L  (a)             --
Aug., Sept. 1835              --     L  (6)             --      1-0027
                                     L  (a)             --      1-0047
Nov., Dec., 1835                                                10001
                                        (6)             -- 1-0021
                                              Mean = 10038

  If then x and// denote the horizontal intensities in Dublin and

Limerick, that in London being unity, observation gives

         x = -9380,     y = -9460,            ^ = 1-0038,

and it is required to determine the most probable values of .r
and y. To generalize this problem, let the mean results of
observation be a, b, c, and let their weights be A, B, C respec
tively ; so that we have

            x -- a = 0,              weight = A,
                                                    B,
            -y b = 0,
            -3-                                     C:
                     c = 0,
            .r

a and b being approximate values of x and y, let their true va

lues be            x = a + S x, y = b + By,

- | ~^ -and let = c,, then =
                                        = c, + a-' (8y e,tx),

the squares and higher powers of the quantities 8 x and 8y being
neglected ; so that the preceding equations may be written

                         8.r =0, ly = 0,

                     «t-1 (iy -- cthx) + c, -- c = 0.
134- FIFTH REPORT 1835.

These three equations are to be combined by the method of least
squares ; that is, each equation is to be multiplied by its weight,
and by the coefficient of each unknown quantity separately, and
the two sets of results added together will be the final equations
from wfaich the values of the two unknown quantities are to be
determined. We find in this manner

        lyA $ x -- C ct a~l (a'1  -- ct arl c x + ct -- c) = 0
        Bly + Car' (a-1 Sy -- e,a-' Zx + c, -- c) .=»=0,

from which we obtain, by elimination,

             v* z*j -B « + B
                              *y =          b         b           ·
                      + l,
                                            ca     +xe   +1

  If    the  weights  of the three results  be regarded as equal, that
is, if
                      A = B v C,

the preceding values become

To apply these results to the present case, we have

             -a = -9380, b = -9460, c = 1-0038
             c, = -- = 1-0085, c,           c = -0047 ;

and introducing these values into the preceding    expressions,      we

-find
                                S.r = By = -0015,
so that the corrected values of x and y arc

                          x = -9395, y = -9445.
MAGNETICAL OBSERVATIONS IN IRELAND.                            135

                 Table II.

    Intensity of the Horizontal Force.

                Date.              Cyl.       Time.   Int.(l)  Int. (!)

Limerick ...    July 23, 25, 1834    »(*)     400.34  1.0000    ·9396
London          Sept. 9.                              1.0000   10000
Limerick ...    Aug. 20--27.       8(b)       403.63  1.0000
                Sept.9.0ct.9,29.   L(«)       389.66  10010     ·9445
Ballybunan      Sept. 9. Oct. 8.   L(4)
                                   S(4)       404.37   ·9954    ·9443
GlengarifF ...  Sept. 16.          L(a)       24313   1.0029
                           17.     L(4)       292.53  10110      ·9513
Killarney ...                      S(4)       40415   10110
                          27.      L(«)       243.69            ·9505
Tulla                              L(4)       29210    -9997
Templemore      Oct. 4.            S(4)       402 14  10039     ·9429
Clonmel                            L(o)       241.80  10086     ·9827
Fermoy                       18.   L(4)               10066     ·9532
Limerick ...                 17.   S(4)       292.57            ·9593
Dublin                       19.              403.56   ·9983    ·9445
                                   L(a)       24209   10404     ·9395
Limerick ...    Dec. 2.            L(»)               10092
Carlingford                10.                291.57  1.0157    -9395
                                   LW         404.70  10000
Armagh          Oct. 10, 11,                  396.43  1.0000    -9299
                       25,28.      L(4)       402.50            .9181
Colerain ...             11.       L(«)               10000
Cam                    25,28.      L(4)       400.75            -9301
Strabane ...                       L(a)       403.89  1.0064    -9096
Enniskillen     Sept. 9. Oct. 8.   L(4)       243.90  10044
London                             L(a)       243.92            ·9066
                Oct. 13.           L(4)                ·9898
Limerick                14, 15.    L(a)       292.74    ·9761    ·9081
                                   L(4)       293.62    ·9784
Dublin ..              18,20.      S(«)       24313     ·9900  10000
                        21.        R(«)       292.53    ·9665  1.0000
                                              294.69    ·9698  10000
                        23.        R"('rf)    246.88    ·9633
                                              296.40   ·9665    ·9470
                        24.        "sR"MW(i)  294.66   ·9640    -9461
                                              248.10    ·9690   ·9513
                July 4-7, 1835     R(r)                         ·9456
                July 8--19.        R(rf)      29771   10005      ·9421
                                              248.51  10098
                Aug. 30, 31.                          10000
                July 19.20.                   298.22  10000
                Aug. 28, 29.                  248.42
                July 27, 28.
                                              297.83
                       27,29.                 401.33
                       29--31.                441.59
                Aug. 16.                      441.46
                         14.
                                              438.57
                                              43907
                                              412.38

                                              453.95
                                              449.92
                                              45406
                                              452.11
13G                          FIFTH REPORT 1835.

                Place.     Table II.-- [Continued.

                           Date.            ryl.               lnt.(l)  Int.(!)

Markree ...                Aug. 19, 1835.   R (S      465.11     ·9531   ·9012
Dublin                            19,20     R(rf      46244      ·9558   -9005
                                            L (a,     243.06             ·9395
Markree ..                 Aug. 19.                   24352    10000
                           Sept. 12-- ·15.  ha:       292 80             ·9395
Ballina                    Aug. 19.                   293.31   10000
                                            L (a                         ·8986
Belmullet ..               Sept. 12- 15.    L(A       248.71     ·9569
                                            L(«       29975      ·9559    -8946
Achill Ferry               Aug.21.                    24916      ·9534
                                            LHHa(PA,  300.53    -9509    ·8894
I.ecnan                 ,           22.                         ·9486
                                            L (a      249.79     ·9447   ·8977
Oughterard                          24.     L (A      301.52     ·9565
                                                                 ·9544    -9038
Ennis                              25.      1. (a     248.76    ·9610
                                                      299.98     ·9629   ·9179
Limerick ..                         26.     L(A       248.18     ·9766
                                            L (a      298.66    ·9773     -9373
Cork                                27.     L(6       24619      ·9984
                                            L (a      296.44    ·9969    ·9430
Waterford...                        28.               243.49   1.0027
                                            LHa(A                         -9582
                           Aug. 29.                   293.52   10047
                                            L (A      242.96   10199     ·9498
                                    31.                        1.0285'
                                            L(«       292.38   1.0114    ·9602
                           Sept. 1.         L(A       240.90   1.0107
                                            L(«                10204     ·9409
                                                      288.97'  10238
Broadway ..,               2.                         241.92   10002      ·9390
                                                      291.51   10027      -9376
Rathdrum ..,                          3.              240.85            10000
                                                      289.64   10000    10000
Dublin                            12-15.    LL(ibo             1.0000   10000
                                   19--22.            243.27   10001    10000
London                     Oct. 23, 24.     L(n                10021      ·9319
                           Nov. 5, 6.                 292.67              ·9319
London                     Nov. Dec. Jan.   HL(aA     243.52
                           Dec. 19,21,23.
Dublin                                      L(A       293 31
                                            h(a       235.98
Dublin                                      L (A      28401
                                            L(«       235.42
Limerick ..                                 L(A       28311
                                            L(a
                                            L (A      243.87

                                                      293.27
                                                      24402
                                                      293.36
                                                      24401
                                                      293 05

   · Disturbing influence suspected in tin's observation; the result has been
therefore omitted in deducing the number in the last column.
MAGNETICAL OBSERVATIONS IN IRELAND.                    137

II. Dip and Intensity.

All the observations with dipping needles are comprised in the
two Tables which follow. The first (Tab. III.) contains the

results obtained with needles of the ordinary construction, and
used exclusively for the determination of the dip. In the first,
second, and third columns are given the place, day of the month,
and hour of observation. The fourth column contains the observed

inclination (the mean of the usual 8 readings) when the marked
end of the needle is a north pole ; the fifth contains the similar
result of observation with the poles reversed; and the sixth is
the mean of these angles, or the resulting dip. The needles em
Lployed are Needle ( 1 ) con structed by Robin son, and Needle S ( 1 )
ll£made by Dollond ; the latter of these is  inches in length, the
forTmaebrle4^IVin. cchoenst.ains the observations made for the purpose of
determining the dip and intensity at the same time ; the latter ele
ment being deduced from the direction in which the needle rests
under the combined influence of magnetism and gravity, while

the former is inferred from the position assumed under the in
fluence of the earth's magnetism alone. Each of these angles of
direction is deduced from the usual eight readings, all the re
versals being made just as in the ordinary mode of observing the
dip, the reversal of the poles of the needle excepted. These
angles are given in the fifth and sixth columns of the table ; £
is the angle which the needle makes with the horizon when un
loaded, and 6 the inclination when a small weight is attached
to the southern arm at a fixed distance from the centre. The

temperature is noted at the commencement and end of each ob
servation, with the view of correcting the value of the force ; and
the mean temperature is set down in the fourth column of the
table. The needles employed in these observations are of the
same dimensions as those used for the determination of the dip
alone, and are adapted to the same divided circles. Three small
holes are drilled close to each other on each arm, at a distance

from the centre about two thirds of its length ; and much care
has been bestowed to make them coincide accurately with the
axis of form of the needle. The weight is a small cylinder of
brass, which is inserted in one of the holes on the southern arm,
the diameter of the cylinder corresponding accurately to that of
the hole. This weight is so adjusted as to bring the needle into
a position nearly at right angles to the line of the dip, that being
the position in which the resulting value of the force will be least
affected by the friction of the axle on its supports.
138 FIFTH REPORT 1835.

                          Table III.
             Observations of Dip. --Needle L (1)*.

Place.                Date.            Hour.   N.Pole.   S. Pole.  Dip.

                                       hm                 °/        o/
                                                         71 1.8    71 0.6
Limerick ... July 1834.                        70 59.4   70 52.6   70 55.3
                                    .          70 58.0   70 59.8
                                                         71 3.2    71 1.7
                           Mean          ...   71 36     70 58.4   71 2.4
                                                         70 59.2   70 57.2
Dublin          Aug. 7.                12 20   71 1.6              70 59.5
                                       12 30   70 56.0   70 550    70 51.6
                      8.               12 10
                                               70 59.7   70 59.4   70 «76
                      9.               11 25   70 48.2   70 53. 1
                                       12 45   70 55.9   70 51.3   70 54.3
                      19.              11 40             71 4.5
                                               70 555              70 495
                Sept. 22.               2 88   70 477    70 590    70 560
                                                                   70 53.8
                      23.              12 0    70 47.4   70 57.1
                                         4 45  70 48.5   71 30.6   70 53.8
                           Mean                70 50.5   71 33 1   71 163
                                         4 15            71 34.8   71 30.2
Carlingford . Oct. 13.                 10 45   71 20
                                       10 0              71 340    71 32.7
                      14.                      71 27.2             71 31.5
                                         7 50  71 30.6   71 19.4
                      15.                4 20  71 28.9             71 15.6
                                         1 10  71 11.8   71 47.5
Colerain t ...             Mean        12 0    71 48.2   71 560    71 47.8
                      20.              12 8                        71 51.6
                                         1 30  71 47.2   71 47.5
Strabane ...          21.                85    71 48.5   70 44.5   71 480
Enniskillen .         23.                2 30  70 28.1   71 51.2   70 36.3
                      24.                1 30  71 54.6   71 531    71 529
                                         1 50  71 55.6             71 54.4
                Dec. 2.                  3 35  71 551    71 52.2   71 53.6
                                         2 45  71 58.8             72 19
Markree ... Aug. 21. 1835.             12 35             72 50
                                       11 55   71 59.7             72 2.7
                Aug.       Mean                71 52.2   72 5.7    71 54.4
                      22.                      71 20.4   71 56.6   71 21 9
Bclmullet ...         24.                       70 55.6  71 23.4
Achill Ferry .        25.                      70 540              71 15
                      28.                       70 26.5  71 7.4
                                                70 40.5  70 49.8   70 51.9
Limerick ...             29.                             70 321    70 29.3
Cork                     31.                    70 14.8
Waterford...    Sept. 1.                        70 450   70 34.7   70 376
Broadway ...                                    70 39.9            70 19.4
                           2.                   70 44.4  70 240
Kathdruni ...              3.                  70 530              70 43.4
                                                70 560    70 41.8
                           4.                             70 42.3  70 41.1
                           5.                   70 55.7  70 490    70 46.7
                           7.                   70 55.9  70 58.8   70 55.6
                           9.                   70 55.8  70 52.5   70 54.2
                         14.                   70 53.5   70 53. 1  70 54.4
                         15.                                       70 56.7
                                                          70 57.5  70 53.3
                             Mean                        70 50.8   70 53 5
                                                         70 53.5

  · The observations in Limerick (J uly 1831) and that in Fcrmoy (Dec. 2), were
made by Captain Sabine : all the other observations with this needle by Mr. Lloyd,

   f Evident local disturbance at this place : Rock, basalt.
          MAGNETICAL OBSERVATIONS IN IRELAND.                                                                       139
                                                                                                              Dip.
                  Table III. -- (Continued.)

                                          NeedleS (1)·.

Place.                   Date.                   Hour.      N. Pole.    S. Pole.

Limerick . .       Aug.                   1834.             71 7°138.8  70 24.3   71                          71 1.6
          .                                                             71 22.3                            o
                                                            70 48.5     70 53.3                              /71 54
                         f. 1.                                    13.6
                         16                                             71 90                                 71 3.5
                                                            70 52.3                                           71 0.6
                              Mean                          70 50.4           14.2
                                                            70 514                                            71 23
Glengariff...      Sept. 27.                                            71 11.6                               71 15
                                                            71 56       71 3.4
                         28.                                            71 15.4                               71 4.5
                                                            71 16.2                                           71 15.8
            ...               Mean

          ....     Oct.
-}- ·Killamey
        1Tulla           12.
                            ;

                                      4.
All the observations with Needle (1) were made by Captain Sabine.S

       The needle  w--astherubmbaerdkeodn        a hone in  the     interval between  the  observations
(Aug. and 16)                                    end most.
HO FIFTH REPORT -- 1835.

                          Table IV.

Observations of Dip and Intensity .-- Needle L (4) *.

PUcf.t                  Date.          Hour. Temp.          (W          (*.)

Limerick  ... June 21. 1834.           hm      640    o/        --      O       '
               July 22.                        650                      6     550
                            28.         2 35   650   69 80      -- 7 106
                                 Mean  12 42                    -- 6 21-3
                                               64-7  69 8-5     -- 6 490
                Aug. 28.                 1 18  700   69 5-6
                             29.               68-5  69 7-4     --11 53-2
                                        2 15         71 2-2
                                        2 45   677   70 53-8    -12 7-4
                                        2 40   68-7
                                        2 40   61-0  70 44-8    -- 12 26 1
                                                     70 53 6
                               Mean    12 52   62-5  71 20-6    --12 8-9
                        22.              15    66 2  71 194     _-- 8 5-6
                 Sept.  23.                          71 33-2        7 370
                                       12 38   62-5  71 26-3
                        26.                          71 12-2    -- 7 596
                        29.            12 2    63 0  71 49-6    -- 8 95
                                         1 28  61-2  71 39-4
                               Mean                  70 54- 1   - 7 579
                        13.            12 18   48-8  70 51-6
                        14.              3 15        71 55-6    -- 5 29-4
Carlingford . Oct.      15.              1 13  520   71 51-8    ---- 7 7-4
                                         3 50  504   71 57-5
                               Mean      3 50        71 53-2            7     15-2
                                               56-3  71 17-4            7
                        20.            11 15         70 59- 1                 H-3
                        21.            10 37   49-5  70 47-5    -- 8 192
Colerain ...            23.                          70 33-2    --- 5 4-8
                        25.              8 18  48-8  70 38 8
Strabane ...            19. 1835.        4 45                   -- 5 59-1
                        21.              1 40  470   70 316           8 53-9
Dublin           Aug.   22.            12 30
                        24.            12 35   71-5   70 43- 1  -- 13 4-9
Markree ...             25.              20    670    70 408    -- 11 26
                                         8 30  66-5                -- 11 15-2
Belmullct ...           28-              30                        -- 10 56-2
Achill Ferry .                                 65-5                -- 10 49-2
                                                                   --11 91
                                               620                 -- 12
Limerick ...            29.                                                     1-6
Cork                    31.                    59-0                -12        32 0
Waterford . . .                                                    -- 13 18-5
Broadway ...     Sept.    1.                   6?2
                          2.                                       -13 38-6
Rathdrum ...              3.                   69-2                -- 13 335

                                               68-5                -14 1-1
                                                                   -- 13 580
                                               662

                                               66-8

                                               600

                                               64-7

   · The observations   in Limerick    (June, July 1834)     were made  by Captain
Sabine; all the other   observations   with this needle by
                                                            Mr. Lloyd,

t London, Sir James South 's observatory, Kensington.
         MAGNETICAL OBSERVATIONS IN IRELAND.                                    141

                   Table IV.-- (Continued.)

Place.t                Date.             Hour. Temp.    (ft            (*.)

Dublin          Sept.  4. 1835.           hm      718   70 43-6        -12O        t
London                 5.                  1 56         70 52-8                 29-4
Dublin                                    2 19    65-5  70 52-2        -13 15-4
                                          48            70 46-2        --13 208
                       7.                 35      700   70 53-4
                       9.                 15       ...
                                                   ...  70 550
                       14.               12 25    620
                                                  673   70 50-5
                       15.                   ···   ...  69 5-8         --13 10-5
                              Mean         10     680                  -- 13 40
                                           1 10         69 74
         ... Sept. 19.                   11 32    70-8
                                           1 45   700   69 12 4
                                                  69-6  69 13-6        --16 54-2
                                             ...        69 9-8         -- 17 16-3
                       22.               11 33    50-5  69 10 6        -- 16 49-4

                                 Mean      2 25   51-6  69 22          ---1167   00
                Oct. 23.                                69 60
                                           1 16   53-8                          32 0
                                             ...        69 6 3         -- 16 35-4
                                                  520   70 49-6
                              24.        12 22          70 45-8        --16 44-4
                                   Mean    2 32   56-2  70 53-9        -- 16 37-3
                                                        70 49-8        -- 12 54-6
         ,..., Nov. 5.                     1 15   52-8
                                                        71 16-9
                       6.                         490   71 29- 1       --12 54-5
                            Mean                        71 150         -- 12 366
                                                  52-7  71 17-7        -- 12 48-6
                                                        71 36-5
                              Needle S (2) f.           71 14-6
                                                        70 490
Limerick J... Julv.            1835.              630                  -- 15 90
                         8.                       520                  -13 56-3
Bally bunan . Nov.     12.                                             -14
                                                  470                  -13
                       18.                        430                           373
                       10.
                       26, 27                     470                           45 8
                       29.                        450                  -- 14 460
Tulla           Dec.                              470
Limerick § ...  Jan.     4. 1836.                 52-5                 -15 296
Youghai|| ...                                                          -- 16 0-5
Limerick ...                                                           -- 15 23-7

ttRYhaoe*yumLsgeiohmanadelb,'rsieicnakc,LthhoegdaagtgreadL.reod--nrednVaatVoleSef nonthtmtrieaye,'r"sv.Doi--lnleevT.toh--uenllsBash,aeialrleyKbbilAetuaanncnnahonsn,"a, tiinnM"nt.hrt.heeMfieoFlldooonityn."'sf--rodnDetminoegsflneCe,a. p--otn.

      The observations in Limerick, July 1835, made by Captains Sabine and
\ iIlnss ; all the remaining observations with this needle by Captain  Sabine.
      ? a mean of 4 observations ; t mean of 3 obs.
   5 £ a mean of 3 obs. ; mean of 2 obs.
|| Mean of 2 obs.
142 FIFTH RKPORT 1835.

When the observations of dip made at the same station with
different needles are compared together, it will be found that
they are by no means in accordance. Thus the dip at Limerick
in November, 1833, deduced from four observations with a needle

Lon Meyer's principle, was 71° ll''7j while the mean of five ob

servations with needle (1) at the same place and in the fol
lowing year was only 70p 59-·5, differing from the former by 12'.
When from this difference the amount of the annual change is

deducted, the remainder appears to be greater than can be fairly
ascribed to the errors of observation. But these discrepancies
in the results given by different needles have been placed in the
strongest light by the recent observations of Captain James
Ross in London. In these observations, which were undertaken
with the view of determining the amount of the annual decrease
of dip at London, eight different needles were employed, and
from eight to ten observations were made with each, the result
of each separate observation being a mean of eighty readings.
The results were as follow :
                                 ...(10 obs.)
LNeedle B (1), Admiralty . .                          dip  = 69    1.5
                                                               69  6.3
Needle  (1)                      (9 obs.) . . .

JNeedle S (1)                    (8 obs.) . . .                69 11.3
                                 (10 obs.) . . .               69 16.1
Needle                                                         69 18.9
Needle R                         (10 obs.) . . .

Meyer's needle                   (8 obs.) . . .                69 19-6
Needle B (2), Admiralty
                             . . (10 obs.) . . .               69 21.8
Needle P
                                 (8 obs.) . . .                69 42.6
                                 Mean dip = 69 17'3

   Thus it appears that there is a difference amounting to 41' in
the results of two of the needles used ; and that this difference
is very far beyond the limits of the errors of observation will
appear from the fact that the extreme difference in the partial
results with one of these needles (B (0) does not amount to four
minutes and a half, while with the other (P) the extreme differ
ence is only two minutes. In fact, it so happens that these
very needles which differ most widely in their mean results, are
those in which the accordance of the partial results is most
complete. Of the eight results obtained with needle (P), there
is one only which differs from the mean of the eight by a single
minute; and yet the mean of all the observations with this
needle differs by more than 20' from the mean of any of the
others, while its excess above the mean of the entire series

amounts to 25'.

   These differences cannot  be  ascribed to  a(nJy,  partial  magnetism
in the apparatus, for three      the needles          P, and
                             of                                R) were of
MAGNETICAL OBSERVATIONS IN IRELAND.                                                                           143

the same dimensions and were used with the same circle, and
yet their results, as we see, are widely discordant. We must
seek, then, in the needles themselves the cause of these perplex
ing discrepancies, and we are forced to conclude that there may
exist, even in the best needles, some source of constant error
jwhich remains uncorrected by the various reversals usually

made and that accordingly no repetition of observations with
                           can furnish even an approximation to
a needle so circumstanced  error be due to the incomplete adjust

the absolute dip. If this
ment of the needle (such as deviation of centre of gravity from
the axle, &c.) its magnitude will be a function of the dip, and
of the force, which may be assumed to be constant where the
variations of these elements^ are not considerable. Hence, to
determine its amount for any particular needle, it is necessary
to make a careful series of observations with it at some station
for which the dip has been accurately determined (from the
mean of several needles) ; and the difference will be a constant
correction to be applied to all future results within certain
limits.

  It fortunately happens that the two ordinary needles used in
the present series of observations in Ireland were among those
employed by Captain James Ross in London ; so that their cor
rections may be considered to be accurately known. The mean

Ldifference of the values of the dip as given by needles (1) and
L (4) having been well determined by observations elsewhere,

the results obtained with the latter needle in London may be
grouped with  rmetahddouesceewdoitfhtothnneeeeefddolleremLeLr(.(l4)),,)TShiesups6t,e9m°thb9ee'.r8m. eaannIdf  of seven
observations                                                                                                  October,
                                                                                                               then we
1835, (when
Lcombine this with the direct result of the nine observations with

needle (1), viz. 69° 6'"3, (allowing double weight to each of the
latter observations on account of the double number of readings,)
we find 69° 7''3 as the mean value of the dip deduced from six
teen observations with the two needles, and reduced to needle

L (1) as the standard. Comparing this with the mean result of
Lthe eight needles, the correction of needle (1) is found to be

+ io'.o.
....For the other needles employed in Ireland, we have
Needle S (1)               correction = + 6'0.
Meyer's needle                                -- V'S.

With respect to Meyer's needle, however, it is to be observed
that as the angles from which the dip is deduced differ in ge
neral very widely, and as these angles are usually varied in dif
ferent observations with the same needle, there is a presumption,
    144 fifth report-- 1835.

    at least, that every constant error will be removed by repetition,
    and that the differences of the separate results from the absolute
    dip will be equal on the positive and on the negative side. This
    seems to be confirmed by the amount of the final difference in
    the present instance, which does not
    may be fairly ascribed to the errors                 appear to be                                    larger than
                                                         of observation.
                                                                                                            It seems

    better therefore to regard this needle as subject to no constant

    error.

    The degree of confidence to which these determinations are

    entitled, may now be estimated by applying the corrections so
    obtained to the observations made with these needles at Limerick
    in 1833 and 1834, the only other station at which they have been
    all employed. The observations in the former year are reduced
    to the latter, assuming the annual decrease of dip in Ireland to
    be 3'. The very close agreement of the results must of course

    be regarded as in a great measure accidental.

                                                         Obs. Dip.                                       Corr. Dip.

             ... .....LNeedle (1), July 1834 . . .                                                     a
                      S                                                                      59:5 . . .        9:5
                                                                                                                7°1
                                                                          .                            . 71 95
                                                                                        7°0                            it
             Needle (1), Aug. 1834                   71 3.5
             Meyer's needle, Nov. 1833 . 71 11.7
                                                                                                         71 97

       We have hitherto spoken only of the needles whose poles are
    changed in each observation, and which are used exclusively for
    the determination of the dip. The necessity of correction in
    the results obtained with the other needles, whose poles are un
    altered, obvious. By reason of the deviation of the centre of
    gravity of the needle from the axle, the weight of the needleis
    self has in all cases certain moment acting with or against the?,
                  is    a

    directive force.
    Let as before, be the inclination of the needle to the horizon

    when unloaded, and the corresponding angle when the weightp
       attached, and let denote the ratio of the moment of the needle8

    itself to that of the added weight then the dip will be given
                                                  ;                                                    (8)
                                                                                                            v
    by the equations·.
                                                                                                            '
                      sm sc            cos?  sm.     -- 0).                                              (1)
              e                        cos p 9?

    in which     is                               v(t

                                e                                      ;

                                   rp
                      the correction sought.
    The constant coefficient in the expression for this correc
    tion will be known when the corresponding values of the angles
          and are known at some one station. Its value, in the

    case of Needle IV., has been thus found to be '00205
    8,        3
         5,

    · Trans. Royal Irith Academy, vol. xvii. 150.                                                      f

                                                                                                            t.

                                                                                                                       p.
                                                     p.                                                  Ibid. 451.

"\
       MAGNETICAL OBSERVATIONS IN IRELAND.                                                                     145

It will easily appear, from the second of the preceding for

mulae, that when the coefficient is so small as that just assigned,
the variations in the values of s, resulting from moderate changes

in the angles on which it depends, will be inconsiderable. In
the observations in Ireland, for example, the entire change in

the amount of the correction is a small fraction of a minute. In
this and other similar cases, therefore, the correction may be
regarded as constant; and its value may be inferred from any
series of simultaneous observations made with the needle to be

corrected, and with some other whose correction is already
L Lknown. In this manner it has been found that the mean differ

ence of the results of needles (1) and (4) is 8, -- 8,T = + l'-5 ;
being somewhat smaller than that assigned above. But if 8 denote
the absolute dip, we have already found that S -- 8, = -f 10'-0;
Land adding these differences, the correction of needle                                                        (4) is

8 -- SIV = + ll'«5.
   The correction of needle S (2) is inferred from the observa
tions made with that needle in Limerick, as given in Table IV.

       ......Limerick, July 1835 . . . dip =
is                                                                                                       16-9
                             it
                                    isDec.                                                             71 146

                                                                                                    7°1Mean71 15-8

This mean corresponds, in time, to the middle of October 1835.
But the true dip in Limerick (July, August, 1834,) was found
to be 71° &'5; and when reduced to October 1835 (assuming the
annual decrease to be 3',)  71° 6,-0. The correction of the
needle therefore -- J^'S.
The corrections of the needles being determined, we may now
proceed to deduce the values of the absolute dip at the several
places at which observations have been made. These values are
given in the following table (Table V.). In the first and second
columns are written the place and date of the observation. The
III.third and fourth columns contain the corrected values of the dip
deduced from the results of Tables  and IV. by the applica
tion of the corrections now explained, and the fifth and last

column contains the mean dip inferred from the two preceding.

In taking this mean, double weight has been assigned to the
results obtained with needles of the ordinary construction, the
number of readings with these needles being double of that made
with the needles whose poles are unaltered.

1835.
    146 FIFTH REPORT 1835.

                                   Table V.
                              Dip. -- Final Results.

    Place.           Date.               Dip (1).     Dip(S).       Mean.

                     August 1834         0'           69 18.9       69 1&.9
                                                      71 5.1
    Dublin           Aug., Sept.        71 38                       71 41
    Tulla            July, Aug.         71 95         71 321        71 95
                                        71 75         71 378        71 75
    Dublin           Sept. 27, 28.                    71 23.7       71 10.5
    Achill Ferry     Oct 4              71 10.5       72 11         71 21.8
                                        71 21:8       71 50.9
                     12                 71 26.3                     71 28.2
                                        71 41.5       69 19.8       71 40.3
                     13.                71 25 6
                                        71 57.8       71 20         71 250
                     14, 15.
                                        72 16         72 7.1
                     20.                71 580        72 3.3        71 58.9

                     21.                70 4G.3       72 90         71 580
                                        69 163                      71 580
                  ·  23.                71 3.5        72 4.7
                     24                               71 28.9
                                        72 36         71 106
                     Dec. 2.                          70 590        70 46.3
                                        72 11.9
                     Sept., Oct. 1835.  72 12.7       70 447        69 173
                     Sept. 4--15.       72 4.4                      71 30
                                        71 31.9       70 50.3       72 4.8
                     Aug. 21.           71 11.5       70 431        72 90
                                                      70 54.6
                     22.                71 19         70 52.3

                     24.                70 39.3       71 13         72 11.5
                                        70 476        71 60
                  ... 25.               70 29.4                     72 4.5
                                        70 53.4       71 19.3
                     28.                70 51.1                     71 30.9
                                                      71 52         71 112

                              29.                     71 7.9        71 0.9
                              31.                     71 26.7
    Cork                                              70 39.2       70 41.1
    Waterford        Sept. 1.                                       70 48.5
                              2.
                                                                    70 340
                               3.
                                                                    70 53.8

                                                                    70 51.5
                                                                        .1.3
    Dublin           Nov. 5, 6.                                     71   60
    Tulla            July, Dec.                                     71
                     Nov. 8.                                        71 193

                               12.                                  71 5.2

                               18.                                  71 7.9
                     Dec. 10.
                                                                    71 26.7
                              29.
                                                                    70 39.2

    The dip being known, the intensity will be given by the formula

                  $sin(& -0) = /3cosfl,               (2)

    in which 0 is constant, and $ the measure of the force exerted
    by the earth on the needle. This force, however, varies with
    the temperature to which the needle is exposed ; and it is ne
    cessary to determine the amount of this variation before we can

    fknow the relative values of the terrestrial magnetic force at dif

    ferent stations. Let t, then, be the observed, and the standard
    temperature, and let $' be the value of corresponding to the<J>

    latter; then                                               (3)

                 $-$'=-«$'(* -t>),

*\
            MAGNETJCAL OBSERVATIONS IN IRELAND.                                                       1+7

Lin which a is a constant to be determined                                           by observation.  For

needle      (4) it has been found* that

                                      a. = -00016.

   But we may proceed in another way, which will perhaps be
found convenient in practice. We may correct the observed
value of 0 by subtracting the change due to temperature ; or,
in other words, we may reduce the value of 0 to that corre

sponding to the standard temperature, and to the standard con
dition of the needle. For this purpose it is only necessary to
find the relation between the corresponding changes of $ and 0.
Differentiating, therefore, the equation (2) with respect to these
variables, and dividing the result by the equation itself, we find
                         _d tp ~
                                           cos 8 sin 1'

                         $~d 0          cos 0 sin (8 --                            it
                                                                                       is 0)'
d6 being expressed in minutes. Now                                                               easy to see that the
                                                                                                ·

variations of the second member of this equation (arising
from changes in the angles and on which depends) will be
                                        8     0                                                  it

inconsiderable for the limited extent of those changes in Ireland.
Assuming to be constant, therefore, its value will be given
when we know the corresponding values of and at some oned it
station. Thus, at Dublin, September 1835, was found that
                is <$,                       0

                                                                 it S
                                                                                             0
                         8= 71°3'-0, = -13°0'-0;

from which we find the value of this constant to be "00010.
                        =$ -- $'= -- a                      -- /'), the first member of
But, since                                       $'
                                                    (t
the equation                                               t
                                                                      t'
                 _ a.    --             - _ -00016 .----4,;
                         0' 1t
_so tbat the correction               finally       -Of.
                             0,        = + 1-6   (t

                            is L                                 8,
                                                                                    0
                                  0 t'
  Now <$n, and be the values of <J,, and                                                             at the station
with which the rest are compared, we have                                                                  (4).
        if

                    8,,

                         sin -- = cos
                         sin -- = cos
  ,,..,.                 $, <t> <p, $
                                        cos                 --
and dividing8                         (8, (Bcos             --
                                                    0,^ 0 6,) 0)
                                                            (S (8, (3 /S
                                                                        0) 0,) ;0, 0,
                                =             --ssinirn^-A                           £;

· Trans. Royal Irish Academy, vol. xvii. p. 452.
  It obvious that the coefficient in this correction might have been deter
f

          is

                                                                                6

                                                                      If
mined directly,   by observing the angles and                                      corresponding to very unequal
temperatures.                                       to                             subject the apparatus to the ac
                 It did not seem safe, however,
tion of high artificial heat, and the thermo-electric currents induced by inequality
of temperature would in all probability have sensibly affected the results.
                                           L
                                              2
14S FIFTH REPORT 1885.

which expresses the ratio of the force at the two stations in a
form suited to logarithmic calculation.
   The following table gives the results of this computation.  It
contains the place and date of observation ; the angle 6 cor
rected for temperature ; and the total intensity at each station,
compared in the first instance with Dublin or Limerick, and in
the second with London.
For the intensity of the magnetic force at Dublin we have the

three following determinations :

Aug., Sept. 1834                  . . Int. = 1.0194
Sept. 1835                                          1.0213
Oct., Nov. 1835                                     1.0211

                    Mean                      = 1.0206

The intensity at Limerick, compared with London, is observed

to be 1.0262; and the intensity at the same place, compared
with Dublin, is 1.0030. Accordingly, for the determination of
the values of the total force at Dublin and Limerick, observation
furnishes us with three results, in the two former of which the
intensities at these two stations are directly compared with that

at London, while in the third they are compared together. To
infer from these data, therefore, the most probable values of the
force at the two stations, we must proceed precisely as in the
analogous problem respecting the horizontal intensities, and we
have only to substitute in the formulae already given·, for a, b, c,
&c. their particular values. We have then

a = 1.0206, b = 1.0262, c = 1.0030,
c-c=c,
=  --              =   1.0055,    '   .0025.

    a

And since the comparison of Dublin and London is the mean of
three distinct comparisons, while each of the other two results
is inferred from one only, the weights may be assumed as follow :

                  A = 3, B = l, C=l.

Substituting these values, therefore, in the formulae alluded to,
we find

                   o x = + .0004, hy = -- .0011 ;

x = a + Sx = 1.0210, y = b + 8y = 1.0251.

The numbers in the fifth column of the table are deduced from
                                                    other of these
those in the fourth,   by multiplying by one or     in question has
numbers, -- according  as the force at the station
been compared in the first instance with that at Dublin or with
that at Limerick.

                         * Page 134.
               MAGNETICAL OBSERVATIONS IN IRELAND.                                        149

                           Table VI.

                  Intensity. --Needle L (4).

       Place.     Date.                          Angle.          Int. ao     Int. (S.)

                    August 1834.             --   o        /                     10000
                                                 11                              10194
                    September.                         550
Dublin                                       -- 7 531                             1-0262
Limerick            June, July.              -- 6 41-5                           10210
Dublin            j Sept., Oct.              -- 8 33-9            10000
                                             -- 5 275               10166        10379
Carlingford*...     Oct. 13.                 -- 7 267               10044        10255
                                                                      ,9997
                  14, 15.                    -- 8 25-1                       , 1-0207
                  20.                        -- 5 21-6              1-0151       10364
                  21.                        -- 6 170               10100        10312
                                                                    10000        10210
Dublin                        23.            -- 12 49-4             1-0091       10303
                    Aug., Sept. 1835.        -- 10 514                           10289
                  . Aug. 21.                 -- 1 1 4-8             1-0077       10305
                                                                    10093        10308
                  22.                        -- 10 474              10096        10298
                                                                   10086         10266
A chill Ferry .   24.                        -- 10 460             10055
                  25.                        -- 11 10-7             1-0030       1 0241
                                                                                10202
Ennis             28.                        -- 11 501               -9992
                                                                                10175
                  29.                        -- 12 17 3              -9966      10185
                                             -- 13 4-9                          10142
Waterford                        31.         -- 13 287               -9976
               ... Sept. 1.                  -- 13 22 6               ,9933      1-0153
                                             -- 14 11                           10000
                                 2.                                   -9944     10213
                                                                                10000
Rathdruln                        3.          -- 13 50-5                         10211
Dublin         ...                           -- 16 44-6
Dublin                                       -- 12 52-3
                      Sept. 19--22.          -- 16 501
                      Sept. 4--15.           -13 03
                      Oct. 23, 24.
                      Nov. 5, 6.

                                      ATeedi'e S (2).

          Place.  Date.                          Angle.          Int. (1).   Int. (2.)

Ballybunan ...    July, Dec.          1835.  --   o   ,          10000       i-025i       ;
Dingle            Nov. 8.                        15  19-3        10084
Tulla              -- 12.                    -- 13 56-3          1-0047      10337
                   -- 18.                    -- 14 373           10097       10299
                  Dec. 10.                   -- 13 45-8          10035       10350
                  Dec., Jan.                 -- 14 460           10000
                                             -- 15 26-6       l   -9971      1-0287
                  Dec. 29.                   -- 16 0-5        i              10251
                                                                             10221

   · Evident local disturbance at these two stations. The district about Car
lingford is intersected with trap dykes ; Colerain lies within the basaltic field of.
the North-east of Ireland.
lfiO HFTH HE POUT 1835.

III. Isodynamic and Isoclinal Lines.

On a review of the preceding results of observation, it will be
seen that they exhibit much irregularity. The errors of obser
vation (in which we   are to include the effects of the unsteadi
ness of the magnetic  state of the needles employed, as well as

the various other uncertainties arising from the imperfections
of our methods of observing,) have, of course, their share in
these discrepancies · but they are by no means sufficient to ex
plain the whole. The action of the earth on the magnetic needle
is itself subject to irregularities, temporary as well as local; and
it is to these that the observed anomalies must, in great part, be
ascribed. Of the variations of the former kind we have already
spoken. The direction and intensity of the terrestrial magnetic
force, at a given place, are subject to fluctuations, or irregular
oscillations round their mean state, the cause of which is as yet
little understood ; and it is only by means of simultaneous ob
servations, made at some fixed station within the limits of the

district through which these effects take place, that we can hope
to ascertain their amount, and to correct for them. Of the local

disturbing causes some are sufficiently obvious. Thus the needle
is in general affected by the vicinity of basaltic rocks, owing to
the quantity of iron they contain ; and instances have been ob
served in which these rocks were even found to possess magnetic
*. But there seem to be grounds for believing that dis-
{u·orlbairnityg actions of a local nature are exerted on a much larger
scale. Whether the earth's magnetic force be an inherent pro
perty, and the resultant of the forces of all its parts, or whether
it be simply the effect of thermo-electric currents produced by
the heating action of the sun, the result must in either case be
Ifgreatly modified by the configuration of a country, and by the
nature of its superficial strata.  this view be just, the greatest
irregularities should prevail in those parts of the earth in which
the uniformity of surface is broken by hill and valley, and where
the strata have been rent and contorted by the uplifting of moun
tain chains. In Ireland, accordingly, we should expect to find
much greater anomalies in the direction and intensity of the
magnetic force than in the plains of central Europe; and it
must be, consequently, in the same degree more difficult to

arrive at general results.

   * A remarkable case of this kind has been noticed at Fair Head, on the
north coast of Ireland. The magnetic polarity of one of the columns which
compose this wonderful fa£ade is said to be so strong as to invert the position
ol the compass needle, when the poles of the same name are made to approach.
            MAGNETICAL OBSERVATIONS IN IRELAND.                                                           151

The only mode of escaping from these difficulties was to seek
the general result of the entire series of observations, as to the
position of the isod ynamic and isoclinal lines
the partial results in                                                                  d;evainadtiotnos,co--mwbhinee
ther local, temporary,  such a manner that                  their
                                                             have                       the least influence
                         or casual, -- should

on the final conclusion. Such is the object of the following com

putations.
   Let A and ft denote the latitude and longitude of any place at
which an observation has been made, A, and lx, the latitude and
longitude of the station which is chosen as the
origin of the coordinates ; then the position of the
former place may be fixed with reference to the
latter in terms of these quantities. For let P be
           of the earth, M and                    O the two
the  pole  PO their meridians,                                      places,
      and                                          and MQ           a great
PM                                     M and perpendicular
circle                                 the position of M will
P O.    pItasissinogbvitohursoutghhat                                                        to
                                                                                             be

determined by the rectangular spherical coordi

nates OQ and QM. Now in the right-angled tri
angle M P Q, we have

     tan P Q = tan P M. cos P, sin M Q = sin P M. sin P ;
or, denoting the coordinates O Q and QMby « and
                                                                                             '/
            cot .i- = cot cos -- ft,)
           ft                           it (ft A                                                  '>.
                      ft                      is                                                     ft,

                       is (A,                       (ft
                               a)                 -- ft,).

                                     A
            sin ss cos sin

When -- ft, so small as                                within the limits of the pre

- -sent district of observation, we may take                ft,) =                      sin = y,
        sin -- ft,) =                   ft,, cos  (ft                                   v 1,
            (ft
                                   /*                                                          y

and the preceding equations become

                     is /Ja.           = -- X,,        A.                               ,g»
                                  A    (ft-- ft,) COS
                        =

This simplification     obviously equivalent to the substitution of
the parallel of latitude for the perpendicular to the meridian.
Now let us conceive any line to pass through O, making the
angle u with the meridian then, in the same order of approxi
     is p

                (ft

                        p

                                       A
                                               ft
                                                  ;

                                               ft
                                                            (A
                                                                                 X,)

                                                                                     ;
mation, the perpendicular from the point M upon that line will be

                        = cos u -- a. sin u

and, substituting for a and their values just obtained,

        = -- ft,) cos cos u -- -- sin u.                                                            (C)

It easy to see in what manner this result may be applied in
obtaining equations of condition from the data furnished by
observation. The increase of the force, or of the dip, may
152 FIFTH REPORT 1835.

(throughout the limited area of the present district of observa
tion) be assumed to be proportional to the distance, measured in
a direction perpendicular to the line of equal force, or of equal

dip. Accordingly, if u be the angle which the line of equal ho
rizontal intensity passing through O makes with the meridian of
the place, the difference of the intensities at the two stations will

be proportional to p, or

                             h -- h, = r p ;

h and h, being the horizontal intensities at the two stations, and

r a constant coefficient which determines the rate of increase.
Substituting, then, for p its value (C), and making

              r cos u -- x;   r sin u as y,                        (D)
                                                                     (E)
we have         -- (*i) cos   - -. x            -

it                         A  (A             =
    is                                    A,)

           (rt                          y

                                                a
                                                  h
                                                               ht
The equations of condition deduced from the observations of
total intensity, and of dip, will be of similar form; and the
coefficients of the unknown quantities, in the first member of the
equations, will be the same.
The station chosen for the origin of the coordinates Dublin,
                                                                   is

and obvious that there will be as many equations of con
dition as there are other places of observation. The coefficients
of these equations are given in the following table. The first,
second, and third columns contain the place of observation, its
latitude and its longitude* . The numbers in the fourth and
fifth columns are the differences of latitude and longitude, (esti
mated in minutes of latitude,) of the place of observation and
Dublin, or the values of -- and -- y.) cos
                              (A                                                                    and the
                                           A,)

                                                               {p.
                                                                                    A
                                                                                                 ;

numbers in the three remaining columns are the corresponding
differences of dip, of horizontal intensity, and of total intensity,
which form the second members of the equations. The dip
having been observed at Dublin in each of the two years (1834
and 1835), the differences of dip are obtained by subtracting
that belonging to the year in which the observation was made

at the other station.

   · The latitudes and longitudes of some of the more important stations have
been kindly furnished by the officers of the Ordnance survey. The remainder
have been taken from Arrowsmith's map of Ireland.
        MAGNETICAL OBSERVATIONS IN IRELAND.                                                                           153

                             Table VII.

Place.           (/-/)w w (X -X,) COS X <·->,) (A-*,)

Carn              -/         7 15    + 114      + 34   + 54.9       -- 030          + ·0154
Colerain ...     55 15       6 40    + 107             + 21.0       -- ·009         -- 0003
Strabane ...     o.:. 8              + 88       + 48   + 540        -- 033          + 0102
Enniskillen                  7 28    + 60       + 14   + 540        -- 031
                 .54 4!)     7 38    + 60       + 125  + 363        -- ·021         + ·0045
Armagh                       6 39    + 59       + 77   + 68.5       -- ·050         +·0095
Belmullet ...    .54 21      9 50    + 53       + 98   + 61.8       -- ·039         + ·0093
Markree ...                  8 28    + 49       --3    + 660        -- 045          +·0079
Ballina          .54 21      93                 + 127  + 24.2       -- ·010         + 0169
                 54 20       0 11           41  + 121  + 61.5       -- ·042         + ·0098
Carlingford      .54 14                         + 109               -- .036
A chill Ferry                9 51    39                + 00         -- ·022              0000
Leenan           .54 10                         + 96   + 27.9       + 000                0088
                 .54 2       9 40    20         + 85   -- 11.5                           0057
Oughterard       54 0                           +0     + 17.8       + ·001               0077
Dublin           53 41       9 18 1  (i         + 53   + 8.2        + .003               0056
                 53 27                          + 121  + 50         -- 002               0041
Galway           o.'i 21     6 15 !  0          +3     -- 9.2       + ·005               0068
Rathdrum ...     53 17       8 51    4          + 31
Tulla·           52 55                          + 150  + 16.3       + 013                0127
Emiis            52 53       6 12    26         + 121  -- 29 0      + ·004               0025
Limerick· ...    52 52                          + 86   -- 14.5      + 021                0035
                 52 40       8 41               + 146  + 4.9        + 010                0140
Gorey            52 41                          + 83   + 6.5
Cionmel ...      52 20       8 54    29         + 59   -- 17.7            ·011
                 52 35                          + 123                     ·019
Ballybunan       52 14       8 36    41                -+212..92
Broadway ...     52 12                                              + -019
Waterford . . .  .52 6       6 15    40                -- 23.8
                 .52 3                                 + 3.5        + ·011
Dingle           52 1        7 41    01
Killarney ...                9 34    40
Fermoy           Jl51 56
Valentia                .54   6 20   07
Cork             51 53        76     0!)
Youghal          51 44       10 20
Glengariff ...                9 31   7.5
                                     78
                              8 34
                                     so

                             10 12   85                                         --+                                 ·0089
                                                                                                                     0008
                             8 28    87
                                     88                                             + .0011
                             7 51
                             9 33    97

   The equations of condition (E) are of the first dimension with
respect to the two unknown quantities they contain, and may be
written

                 ax + b y =                            (F)

in which the values of a, b, and c (or                 of      --                                                      -- A,,
and -- hn) are given in the preceding                  table.                                                       deduce
h                                                               In    cos       to
                                                                    order
                                         i
                                                                                   (/*
                                                                                        I,
                                                                                    + ft,)
                                                                                                ; A,

                                                                                                                   X
the most probable values of the two unknown quantities, these
equations must be combined by the method of least squares.
Accordingly, multiplying equation (F) by the coefficient of .r («),

»-«, =· Observations made in the vear 1835 give Tulla  --      =    23'.7 Limerick,

              -- 2'1.
154 fifth KEPOin -- 1835.

and by the weight (u) of the determination which it represents,
and adding the results, we have

        S(va*)x + S(wab)i/ = S(wac)i                                   (G)

and, performing the same operation with respect to the coeffi
cient of the other unknown quantity,

        S («- a b) a- + S [w A*) y = S (w b c).                        (G)

These are the two final equations which, by elimination, will
furnish the most probable values of the quantities sought.
Let the values of x and y, obtained from these equations, be
usB;A and B ; then substituting in (D),

                        r cos u = A, r sin

and, dividing, we have             n

                        tun M = -- ;                    (H)

by which the direction of the isodynamic line is determined.
Again, squaring and adding,

        r = </A? + B*;                                          (I)

which gives the rate of increase of the force in the normal direction .
The lines of absolute intensity, and of dip, will be obtained by
a similar process, the only difference being in the values of the
second members of the equations (F).

   Before we can apply these formulae to the investigation of the
lines of horizontal intensity, it is necessary to assign the weights
due to each equation of condition, or to the determination which
it involves. We shall assume, accordingly, that the weights of
the values of -- h,), recorded in the preceding table, are mea
sured by the number of separate comparisons from which they
have been deduced, and we shall have, on this principle,
        (/»
                                                     .
        ....Limerick    ..                              weight = 12,

        .Markree.                                            =  2, 3,
        Armagh
                        ...                                  =

the weights of each of the other determinations being represented

by unity.               and being given in Tab. VII., we may
   The values of a,  b,
                                c

now proceed to calculate the coefficients of the equations (G).
The elements of this calculation are given in the following

table.
MAGNETICAL OBSERVATIONS IN IRELAND.                                            155

Pla               (w a') ' (wab)                  (tui3)    (mac) : (wbc)

Cam                1156        -- 3876         |  12966     -- 1.020  +3.420
Strabane ....                  -- 3696         |            -1.386    +2.904
Enniskillen .      1764        -- 2880             7744     -- 1.488  + 1.860
Armagh ....        2304        -- 1680             3600     -- .588   +2.520
Belmullet .                    -- 7375                      -6.250    + 2950
Markree ....         392       -- 12243             7200    --9009    + 6.201
Biillina          15625        -- 4802              3481              + 2.205
                                                            -4410     + .410
Carlingford .     17787        + 123                8427    + .030    + 1.638
Achill Ferry       9604              4953           2401              + .720
Leenan ....                                         1681    --5.334   + .132
Oughterard .               !)  -- 2420              1521    --4356    + .026
Rathdrum .        16129        -- 654                       -2.398    + .084
Tnlla .......     14611                               400   -- 002    -- .058
Ennis             11881                    ^2           36
                                                            + .264    + 2.460
Limerick                    4  + 2464                 676   -- .192   + .793
Clonmel                        + 2784                 784             + .184
                    7744       +41820                 841   + 5100    + 1.407
Ballybunan .        9216       + 3233                       + .689    + .690
Broadway .                     + 5566             20172     + .484    + .858
Waterford .       86700        + 201                3721    + .063    + 1.520
Killarney ....      2809       + 2139               2116    + .310    + 1.653
Fernioy                        + 9438               4489    + 1.331   + 1.067
Cork              14641        + 6880                       + 1.684
                          9    + 7221               4761    + 1.577
Gleugariff .                   + 11931              6084    + 1.353
                      961                           6400
                  14641
                                                    7569
                    7396                            9409
                    6889
                  15129

Adding, we find,

S (w a2) = 257431, S(wab) = + 49169, S (wi2) = 116509,
          S (m> ac) = -- 23.598, S («.- b c) = + 35.644.
=-And the equations are
                        257431 .r + 49169 ?/                23.598

                49169 x + 1 16509 y = + 35.644,

from which we have, by elimination,
                  x = -- .0001633 = A

                  y = + .0003748 = B.

Finally, substituting these values in equations (H), (I),
tan u = -- 2.2952, u = -- 66° 28', r = -- .000409.

   The positive branches of the axes of coordinates having been
assumed to be those which stretch to the north and to the west,
it follows that the lines of equal horizontal intensity lie to the
east of north, making an angle of 66^° nearly with the meri
dian of Dublin ; the horizontal intensity decreases as we pro
ceed northward, the decrease being equal to the distance tra
versed in a direction perpendicular to these lines (estimated in
geographical miles or minutes of latitude) multiplied by the co
efficient .000409. The lines are laid clown in the accompany
156 fifth report -- 1836.

ing chart for differences of "01 in the value of the intensity, the
corresponding intervals of distance being 24"4 geographical
miles.

    On a comparison of the separate determinations with the re
sulting lines, it will be observed that the intensities in the northern
group are greater than these due to their position, those of
the western group less, and those of the south-western, again,
greater. These deviations may, in part, arise from the inex
actness of the assumption with which we set out in the computa
tion of the lines, and from the sensible deviation of those lines
from parallelism. But they are probably owing in a much greater
degree to the disturbing causes to which we have already alluded.
The separate results composing each of these groups were for
the most part obtained about the same time, and they are there
fore probably affected in the same manner, and nearly in the
same amount, by the irregular fluctuations in the direction and
intensity of the resultant magnetic force. Of these, the changes
in the direction of the force are by far the most influential.
The relation between the corresponding changes in the dip and
in the horizontal intensity is expressed by the formula

dl·-T- = -- tan Z sin V  ;

dS being expressed in minutes. Hence when i = 71° 0', the

change of the horizontal intensity, --j-, corresponding to a change

of one minute of dip is -- "00084 ; and for a variation of 12' in
the dip, the corresponding variation of the horizontal force
is -01.

    In deducing the lines of dip from observation, it seems ad
visable to separate the results of the two years. For the weights
we shall assume

Limerick (1834) . . . weight = 5,
                            = 2;
Armagh  ...

the weights of each of the other determinations being unity.
   Making the computations for the year 1834, we obtain the

following results :
MAGNETICAL OBSERVATIONS IN IRELAND.                                   157

Place.            (uta°)     (u, a b)   (<"»=) (woe)* (wbc)*

Carn                1156     -- 3876    12996    + 1870      -6270
                             -- 3696             + 2268      --4752
Strain) ne          1764     -- 2880     7744                -3240
                    2304     -- 1680     3600    -+ 2592     --4320
Enniskillen .                                                -- 986
Armagh ....           392    + 123       7200    + 1008
Carlingford .             9  + 2464       1681               + 504
Tulla                        + 17425                     72  + 1025
Limerick ...        7744     + 9438         784  + 1584      + 507
Killarney ....    36125      + 6880      8405    + 2125      -- 1440
Fermoy            14641      + 11931     6084
                                         6400    + 786       + 339
Glengariff .        7396                 9409    -1548
                  15129
                                                 + 430

Adding, we have,

S (w a9) = 86660, S(wab) = + 36129, S (w b*) = 64303,
S (w a c) = + 11043,         S (w bc) = -- 18633.

The final equations accordingly are

                    86660 x + 36129 y = + 1 1043
                      36129 x + 64303 y = -- 18633 ;

from which we deduce

                           x = + "3228 = s cos v,
                           y = -- "4705 = s sin v ;

in which v denotes the angle which the isoclinal line makes
with the meridian of Dublin, and s the coefficient which deter
mines the rate of increase of the dip in the perpendicular di

rection. Dividing, and squaring and adding, we find

tan v = -- 1-458,                      v = -- 55° 33',

                             .*= -571.

  The following are the results of calculation for the year
1835:

* The values of 8 -- 3, or c, are only taken to the nearest minute.
158 FIITH REPORT 1835.

Place.              (,,»)·           (a b)  (6*) (ac) (ftc)

Belmullet            15625      -- 7375     3481     + 8562      --4041
Achill Ferry ...      5929      -- 4081     2809     + 4774
Galway                9604      -- 4802     2401     + 6468      -3286
Tulla                           -- 4953              + 7816
Ennis               16129       + 3/2        1521    + 2604      --3234
                      8649      -- 52            16  + 23
Dingle                       4                                   -2398
                                + 2464        676    -+ 2112     + 112
                      7744      + 2784        784
                      9216      + 3485        841    + 768       -- 299
                                +0          1681
                      7225      + 5566      1600           170   + 672
                            0   + 201       2116                 + 232
                                + 2139      4489     --+ o       -- 82
                    14641       + 11250                          -- 360
                            9   + 12410     4761     + 1936
                                + 7221      5625                 + 736
                        961     + 5192                       87  -1943
                    22500                   7225           449   -1000
                    21316                   7569                 + 375
                                            7744     --+ 750     + 170
                      6889                                       --1914
                      3481                           + 292
                                                                 --2112
                                                         1826

                                                         1416

Summing, \vc find,

=-S (a,) = 149922, S (a A) = + 31821,                S (A9) = 55339,
        S(ar)= +32157, S (b c)                        18572 j

so that the final equations are

        -149922 x + 31821 y = + 32157,

         31821 x + 55339y = 18372.
Prom these we deduce                 -y = -5196,
                       x = + -3250,
tan v =. -- 1-599, v = -- 57° 59',
                                * = -613.

It would appear, then, that the angle which the isoclinal lines
in Ireland make with the meridian is on the increase ; a result
which is in conformity with the general progress of these lines,
as inferred from a comparison        of recent observations with those
of an earlier date.
-For the mean of the two years,
                   x = + -3239, y =         -4950,

tan v =s -- 1-528, v = -- 56° 48',
                                * = -592.

   The lines in the annexed chart are deduced        from these       last
results; and it appears from them that the           interval of      the

We have assumed that w ss 1 , for all the results obtained in this year.
MAGNETICAL OBSERVATIONS IN IRELAND.                                                      159

lines, corresponding to a difference of half a degree of dip, ia 50·7
geographical miles.

 /The lines of dip and of horizontal intensity being known, the

lines of total intensity may be deduced. For if denote the

total intensity, h its horizontal component, and 8 the dip, as
before,

                                h = /cos 8 ;

and differentiating, and dividing by the equation itself,
                  *
/-' d/= A-1 dh + tan 8 sinl'rfS.
                                                     (I.)

   Now, if the values of x and y for the lines of dip and of ho
rizontal intensity be denoted by x.^., x(h-. and y.y., y(h\, and if
x,p. and y,f\ be the corresponding quantities for the lines of

total intensity,

                  dl = ax{1,) -by{i)

                  dh-ax{h)-by{h)                           (II.)

                  df=ax{f)-by(fy

in which a = -- /x,) cos      = -- (E.)              and being
(a                        A,
                               b
     b                                  A
         (ft                                     A,
                                                                    ;
             +
                                                                                    /*.

                                                               it

                                                                                A
the longitude and latitude of any assumed station, and ju.y and                          A,

those of Dublin. Substituting these values in (I.), becomes

            *(/) ~ **</)) = A~I (axw ~ h^i)
-· f~l                                                     (III
                  tan sin     #(J) by^.
                  8

                            1'

                            (a

But as a and are entirely independent, their coefficients must
be, separately, equal, and we have

/"' *(/i = A~" *(*) + tan 8in *m
                                  8

                                       l'

                                                     (IV)

so that the values of x,,, y,,, are found when those of x(h. x^.

y(*) yQ) are known-

Let the second members of the preceding equations (IV.) be
denoted, for abridgement, by  and Q, then
            is
                                       t

                                 P

                          /

                                                 P,
                  x. « = cos w =

in which w            3r(/) = *sin«/=/Q;

                  the inclination of the line of total intensity to
160 FIFTH REPORT. 1835.

the meridian, and t the coefficient which determines the rate of

increase. Dividing the latter by the former, there is
                    -tan w
                              Q                                            (V.)

                              p-,

and, squaring and adding,

                          <=/VP* + Ci2.                                    (VI.)

   From the preceding formulae it appears that the direction of
the isodynamic line at any point is dependent on the values of A
and of 8 at that point, so that these lines will not be parallel,
even though the lines of dip and of horizontal intensity should
be so. The deviations, however, will not be considerable within
the limits of Ireland ; and for our present purpose it will be
enough to seek the mean direction of the lines, and the mean
rate of increase in the direction perpendicular to them. We
must therefore employ in the preceding formula? the values of/",
A, and 8, corresponding to the mean point of the island, or the
point whose latitude and longitude are 53° 25' and 7° 55'*, and
for which therefore

                X -- X, = 4', /x -- /<-, = 100'.

Now it has been already found that
       -#,,) =
                         -0001633, x,t) = + -3239,
       -y(A)= + -0003748, y(J) = "4950;

and substituting these values in the formulae
      - - - -8
-- - - -we find8, = (p                         (X
                         ft,) cos X o-(J)                 X,) X,)
                                                                        ;
       8, A,    = h) cos x{h)(p.                 (X y(J),
A                         h
                                 h                                 y{h)
S               = 21'-4,              X-- ht=
    8                                          -- -0113. Consequently,
                              = -9282, and/= 1-0295.
     = 71° 24-'4,

We have now the numerical values of all the quantities which

enter the formulae

     P             = A-1 x(/« + tan       sin x,j,,
       P        Q = A_1 y(A) + ten        sin 1;y(j)
                                         *8
              -f                                     1'

                                                                     ;

and we find on substitution,

                = -0001042,            Q  =« -- -0000242.

- -Introducing these values in (V.) and (VI.),       = -0001102.
tan w = -2322, w =                       13° 4',  t

· This point corresponds, almost exactly, to the town of Athlone.
       MAGNETIC.AL OBSERVATION'S IN IRELAND.                 1G1

These results, however, are not entitled to much confidence.
An attentive consideration of the formulas (IV.) and (V.) will , \
show that the direction of the resultant isodynamic lines will
vary very widely with moderate variations in the values of
x(h) Vn,) x(i) Vm on which it depends ; or", in other words, that
a small error in the position of the lines of dip or of horizontal
intensity will entail a very great one in that of the lines of total
force. Thus, if we were to take for the lines of dip those in
ferred from the observations of the year 1835 alone, we should
find
       P = + -0001051, Q = -- -0000455,
       tan w = -- -4329, '
                                    w = -- 23° 25' ;

a result differing by more than 10° from the former. In these
latitudes, therefore, very great accuracy is necessary in the de
termination of the lines of dip and of horizontal force before we

can make, in this manner, even an approximation to the direc
tion of the lines of total force. For these reasons the results
of the direct method, to which we now proceed, seem to be de
serving of more confidence.
In the calculation of the isodynamic lines from the results of
observation by the statical method, we shall take the number of
observations at each station to represent the weight of the re
....sult ; we have in this manner
       Limerick              ..     .  weight = 4,
       Armagh                                     = 2,
                                       = 2;
       Youghal               ...

the weight of each of the other determinations being unity.
   The following are the elements of the computation :

1835.                            M
162 FIFTH REPORT -- 1835.

      Place.     (u,at)     (ula 6)    (u-6s)    (to ac)      {wbc)

Carn              115C      -- 3876    12996     + .5236      -1-7566
Strabane ....               -- 3696                           -- -8976
                  1764      -- 1680     7744     + -4284      -- -5400
Armagh              392                 7200     +, -J26Q     -- -5605
                            --          3481                  -- -4929
Belmullet        15625      --  7375     2809    +1-1875'
                  5929          4081     2401                 -- -3871
Markree ....      9604      -- 4802      1521    +   "7i6i    -- -3822
                                                 +
Ballina       ,  16129                       16      -7742
                   8649
Achill Ferry             4  -- 4953        676   + 1-2446
                                           784
Gal way ...        7744     +   372         841  + -8184      +    0352
                   9216     --    52                          --  -1482
Rath drum        28900                   6724    + -0114
Tulla                       + 2464       1600    + '6776      + -2516
Ennis ......             0               2116    + -5376      + -1624
Limerick ...     14641      + 2784       4489
                            + 13940              + 1-3940     +
                         9  +0           4761    + 0000       --  -6724
Gorey                961                 5625                     -2720
                 22500                                        + -5842
Ballybunan       21316      + 5566       7225    +   1-5367   -- .1675
                   6889                  7569    --     0075
Broadway                    + 201      15488
                    G9G2                         -- -1085     -- -2415
Waterford                   + 2139

Dingle                      f+ 11250             +21000       + 1-0500
Valentia ...                    12410                         + -7565
Cork                        + 7221               + 1-2994     -- -0696
                                                 -- -0664

Yougfaal ...                + 10384              + -1298      + -1936

By addition we obtain

S (w a2) = 178390, S (w a b) = + 38216,          -S (w b*) = 96066,
                                                     2-2448.
         S (w a c) = + 13-3229, S(wbc)~

The final equations therefore are

                 -178390 x + 38216 y = + 13-3229,
                 38216 x + 96066 y =             2-2448 ;

from which we obtain, by elimination,

                 x = + -00008711, y = -- -00005802.

» - -Consequently,                     33° 40', t = -0001047.
        tan w
                 -6661, w =

   The lines of total intensity thus deduced are laid down in
the annexed chart for differences of -005, these differences corre

sponding to intervals of 47 "6 geographical miles. It will be

seen that their direction diverges widely from that of the lines
of dip ; and although the position of the two classes of lines
may need further correction, it does not seem likely that such
correction will have the effect of diminishing, at least by any
considerable amount, the divergence.
MAGNETIC CH
           or

   IRELAN

             A. D. 1835.

     Ftfth Rrptxt t* * '.'
                           1<}3

On the BPhyenHoemnernya Huusdusaollyn,reMfe.rDre.,d Mto .tRhe.I.RAad. iaDtiuonblino.f Heat.

The following paper contains the results of a portion of a se
ries of experiments planned several years since, with a view to
an experimental analysis of the phaenomena ascribed to the ra
diation of heat. The apparatus generally employed consisted
(as in Leslie's experiments) of cubic tin canisters and differen

Jtial thermometers, together with a parabolic zinc mirror of 17?

inches diameter and 4 inches concavity ; this was made with a
                     it,
                       it

                                 a
                                                                   ;

                                                                          I
hollow back to and short projecting pipe at the top for the
purpose of filling with any hot or cold liquid at pleasure.
had also an apparatus for heating or cooling the balls of the dif

ferential thermometer previously to arranging the instrument in
its proper position before the mirror my object being to exa
mine the different effects produced on the focal ball under all
possible combinations of varying the temperatures of the canis
ter, the mirror, and the thermometer.

Having found Leslie's differential thermometer (containing

sulphuric acid) to be not sufficiently sensitive where the varia
tions of the temperature were small, made a differential ther
                                             ;I I
                                                 I
mometer for these purposes, into which introduced sulphuric
tahetifhsreoirmnsctotrhluoeumrceeodnmt mwaisotnhthdderifafg"eoraenen'tsthiaebrl ilaoltohdethrmerommosemhtaeelrtl .erth^e"reftooredisstpinegaukisohf
it

                  a
Having observed, in previous experiments, that the radiating
power of surface covered with black japan varnish was about
twelve times greater than that of metallic surface, have in the
                        I                           is is
                                          a
experiments to be detailed merely made use of these two kindsI
of surfaces, my principal object being to ascertain the nature of
radiation, a term which beg leave to use, whether with regard                 :
to heat or cold, without thereby intending to imply any refer
ence to the theory by which the phenomena arc to be accounted
for. Before proceeding to the more immediate objects of my ex
periments may state that have found Professor Leslie's con
I                       I

Ifclusions on the three following points fully confirmed, viz. 1st,

   the canister, the mirror, and the thermometer be all of the
same temperature with
by the metallic or the  the air, the  focal  ball    not affected either
                        varnished     side   of the
                                                     canister 2nd, If

the canister alone be heated, the focal ball more warmed by
the varnished than by the metallic side in the proportion of
                           M
                              2
Kit FIFTH BEPOUT -- 1S35.

about 12 to 1 : and 3rd, If the canister alone be cooled, the focal
ball is more chilled by the varnished than by the metallic side in
                          of about 12 to 1.
the   same   proportion  give a few examples            of such       experiments    as
      now   proceed to
   I

have been sufficiently frequently repeated to remove all doubt,
from my own mind, of their having been produced by occasional

or accidental causes.

I Experiment 1. -- In a close room (temperature 62° Fahrenheit)-

  placed a large tin screen, 4 feet 6 inches by 2 feet 9 inches,
in front of the mirror, at a distance of about 6 feet; and having

ascertained the position of the focus, I filled the hollow back
of the mirror with water at 200° of Fahrenheit, and arranged
the ffitherial thermometer so that one of the balls being in the
Ifocus the other was equally heated by the mirror, the instrument
marking zero.        now placed a smaller tin screen, 24 inches by
17, varnished on one side, about a foot in front of the large
screen, with its metallic surface facing the mirror : on so doing
the focal ball was chilled above one fourth of a degree ; and on
turning the varnished side towards the mirror the focal ball was
cooled 3$ degrees below zero. On moving the small screen
nearer to the mirror, the chilling effects of both sides increased,

and more rapidly than they should have done in reference to the
mere diminution of the distance; a fact indeed which maybe in
ferred from the effect of the metallic side of the small screen in

its primary position. I also remarked that when either side of
the screen was left facing the mirror for any considerable time,
its effect begun to diminish, evidently from that surface be
coming warmer. But the other side being then turned pro

duced its peculim- effect ; and the former side also being again
(after the lapse of a few minutes) put fronting the mirror was
found to produce     --itsTfhuelllaergffeecstcarseeant  first.
   Experiment 2.                                        and the  thermometer being

arranged as before, and the mirror heated to                     1 73°, I substituted
for the smaller screen a ten-inch canister filled with water at 59°,
                     of the room
the   temperature                  beexipnegrim55e°nto, nlyI     \ and     on repeating
the   trials, as in  the previous                                found     that this also

acted as a cold body, and the varnished side produced the greater
effect : just in front of the large screen, however, its effects be

came very small, the     oblfaackdesgirdeee.onIlythperondfuilcleindg    a  chilling  effect
of about three fourths                                                the  canister   with

water at 67°, and (in this same position) it now acted as a warm
body, and the varnished side most efficaciously. On moving it
gradually nearer to the mirror, the effects diminished, and at
length altogether ceased, so that the thermometer remained at
zero, whether the metallic or the varnished side of the mirror
              ON THE RADIATION OF HEAT.                                                           165

was towards it. On moving the canister still nearer to the mir
ror, it now began to act as a cold body, and the varnished side,
as before, showed its superior efficiency.
   The same experiments were also tried (and with the same
effects), by interposing screens between the balls of the thermo
meter and the canister, lest the direct radiation to the two balls

of the thermometer might not have been equal, which would

have confused the results.

   Experiment 3. -- Having covered the balls of the aetherial
thermometer with cambric, and placed one of the balls in the
Ifocus of the mirror (of the same temperature as the air = 48° of

Fahrenheit), applied water to the focal ball, and the chilling
effect from the evaporation was equal to 20°. On placing the
screen before the mirror there was no difference in the effect,
-whether the metallic or the varnished side of the screen faced the

mirror.
Experiment 4. I now covered the balls of a common differential
thermometer with cambric, and
focus, as in the last experiment,            hIavaipnpglieadrracnetgheedr  one ball in the
                                                                           with a camel's

hair pencil to the focal ball ; the temperature of the room being
48°, the evaporation of the aether chilled the ball 102°, as the
extreme effect, and there was still no difference whatever in the

effect, whether the varnished or the metallic side of the screen

was opposed to the mirror. In other similar experiments (the

temperature of the room being higher,) the evaporation of aether
chilled                                                      of the scale of the instru
ment ;    tIhethbearellfobreeyoanldtertehde  extremity       making the liquid stand a
                                             the zero,

considerable  space   below  the commencement                of the scale. The
temperature           room                                   common mercurial
              of the         being 51°, I found a
thermometer covered with cambric sunk to 24° from the evapora
tion of the aether, and, at the same time, the evaporation from the
ball of the differential thermometer made it stand at 62f ° on its
own scale. There      ewitahsernosiddeiffoefretnhcees, careseanl.readI ythoebnsefirlvleedd,   in  the
effect produced by                                                                           the  ca

nister with a mixture of ice and water, (its temperature was 35°,)
and on plaping the varnished side of the canister opposite to
the mirror, the evaporation of the aether now cooled the thermo

meter to 64^°, being 1 1° more than the previous chilling effect,
so that   itthewecareniastceor ld(ethroubgohdyw. arImt eisr  than the focal ball) acted on
                                                             to be observed also that the
it as if
direct chilling effect of the canister must be supposed to be, at
all events, greater on the non-focal ball from the consideration
of their respective temperatures, and that, consequently, the
result ought, on this supposition, to have been precisely the ve-

verse of what has been mentioned.
166 FIFTH REPORT 1835.

The evaporation of the aether was so rapid that I found these

Iexperiments very troublesome, and in order to obtain the maxi

mum effect found it necessary to have the aether previously

cooled considerably ; thus, in the last experiment, even when
the aether was cooled to 34° of Fahrenheit, on dropping some of
it on the ball, the immediate effect was to heat the focal ball

from 3 to 8 or 10 degrees, according to the quantity of aether
dropped on it at the same time.
                                                                                                                                                              use Melloni's
tboefyrBmit6e),iInaogcnfodudrolefdocskiurporrsuoatsceltun,trtoehIstharyoatdf ttahhaneepitln"iamdcteiheatst:haheiwticrsemkdd.aimonuceItynp"sohifoicn(testhode   largest block

                                                                                                                                                              were 8 inches
                                                                                                                                                              a screen with

an opening in it (which the plate of salt just filled up) at 2 feet
9 inches from the mirror, having one ball of the aetherial ther
mometer in the focus, and placed the 10-inch canister contain
ing hot water with its varnished side 2 feet behind the screen.
While the rock salt remained in the opening the thermometer
continued at zero, but on removing it the thermometer imme

diately began to rise, and in less than ten minutes had risen 14°.
On replacing the rock salt the thermometer fell again, and in a

few minutes sunk to zero.
IThe plate of salt was certainly not a favourable specimen, and
therefore  should not lay much stress on the present experi
ment if Melloni's expressions had not led me to expect a diffe
                        the worst specimens of this substance.
Irentresult from even  to point out how completely the experi
  It is unnecessary
ments have mentioned are at variance with the received doc

Iftrine of the radiation of heat, as, on such a theory, the radiation
of cold appears to be equally established.  the mirror be heated

or cooled, and the thermometer so placed that both balls are
equally heated or cooled by the mirror, there is no reason why
any heating or cooling radiation towards the mirror should af
fect the focal ball ; if we suppose such radiation to heat or cool
the mirror, both balls (from their position) should be equally af
fected. Now we might suppose heat to be merely radiated to
and reflected by the mirror, but we cannot admit the same with
regard to cold. Why then does this appear to be the case, both
balls being equally affected by the temperature of the mirror ;
why does the focal ball appear to radiate more heat towards the
mirror than the non-focal ball when a (comparatively) cold body
is placed opposite to the mirror?
On the other hand, these experiments appear to be in no re
spect incompatible with the views of the late Professor Leslie,
                                                                                                                                                              not, in my
whose ingenious theory (whether true or     fIaltshei)nkhaist                                                                                                 is entitled.
mind, ever received the attention to which
              ON THE RADIATION OF HEAT.                                                          167

In considering the air as the medium of the transfer of heat, he
supposes that the hot or cold surface of the canister heats or
                                    c;a--ustehsatantheexfpiarsntsiloanyerorocfonatirractthiuons
cools, and consequently                                                                           of,
the adjoining atmosphere                                                                         ex

panded  or    --cotnhtaratcttehdis  presses on or is compressed by  the portion
before  it ;                         process is renewed in a rapid  succession,

and that an uudulatory motion of the heated or chilled air is thus
propagated to the mirror and thence reflected to the focus ; and
each pulsation being accompanied by a discharge of heat from
the portion of air at the higher temperature, that the heating or.
cooling effect is  conveyed to the      thermometer
with the progress   of the undulation.                           simultaneously
                                           I may here             remark that it

appears not improbable that such expansions and contractions
should take place ; and when we take into account the change in
the capacity of air for heat produced by expansion or compres
sion, we have at least a plausible reason for the transfer of heat
which he supposes to accompany the aerial undulation.

   I do not wish to be understood as adopting Leslie's views,
Ibut conceive them deserving of further investigation, and the
Ionly conclusion wish at present to draw from the previous ex
periments is, that they are only explicable on an undulatory
theory, and consequently, if air be not the medium of the trans
fer, that they furnish an additional and perhaps conclusive argu
Iment in favour of the undulatory theory of light.

      believe no cause has been attempted to be assigned for the
difference in the radiating powers of surfaces except by Leslie,
Iwho supposes it to arise from the different distances of the atmo

spheric boundary ; may, perhaps, therefore, be allowed to refer
to a known property of bodies which probably ought to lead us
Ifto anticipate such results, viz. their different capacities for heat.

   two surfaces* are of the same elevated temperature and placed
in the same medium, they may be considered as having the same
tendency to attain the temperature of that medium, and may con
sequently be expected to give off the same portion of their ex
cess of temperature, and                                         of heat propor
                                                     quantities
Iftional to their capacities.                        to classes  of bodies I be
                                    consequently
                                            we look
Ilieve they will be found to be in accordance with the cause

have just ventured to assign.
   Having recently received one of Melloni's thermomultipliers,

I have made a few experiments with reference to the transmis

sion of heat (from boiling water) through crystals (of rock salt,
alum, and rock crystal), which were sent with the instrument.

I found the diathermancy of rock salt very marked, though not

   * Taking the term in the physical sense of having some definite thickness,
which may be different in different substances.
1G8 FlFTH REPORT -- 1835.

at all so high as            Melloni states it to be :  thus,  taking  the  effect
without a screen
                             as = 9$°, I found it

                             with rock salt  = 6g°,
                             with rock crystal = 1^°,
           and with alum . . =1°.

   Having removed            thneeewdlaermstocoadniasttezrereon,tiIretlhyenousut cocef stshievealyxispuotf
the pile, so that the

the rock salt, the rock crystal, and the alum to the opening in
the screen, and in one set of experiments 1 found the following
results :

           with rock salt, needle marked about l$°,
with rock crystal,
           with alum,                            above £°,
                                             less than £°,

In another trial, with warmer water, the results were

                             with rock salt . . . 2±°,
                             with rock crystal above 1°,
                             with alum . . nearly 1°.
  I may add that the effect on the needle appeared instanta
Ineous. These experiments are, confessedly, imperfect, and
only mention them for the purpose of pointing out a simple
mode of answering the third and fourth questions on radiant heat
                                      volume of the Reports   of the Association,
caos nttoain"ewdhienthtehre  second   transmitted through
                             heat is                          certain substances

Iflike light,                         it

conduction,                           (as
           o&r cw.*h"ether                 is merely rapidly  communicated by
                                           there may perhaps  be some reason to

suspect, even from these imperfect trials,) there be no direct
transmission of simple heat, we may expect to find the same ef
fects produced by a given source of heat whether it be in or out
. of the axis of the thermoscope, provided the crystal and the

canister be so arranged that they are at the same distance from
Ieach other and the inclination of their surfaces alike in each case.

  may mention also, as bearing on this point, that with the canis
ter in the axis (its position, surface, and temperature being the
same,) the effects on the crystals increased with the extent of
the radiating surface, evidently from the crystals being more
warmed, but that there was, nevertheless, no apparent change
produced in the ratios of the effects with the different sorts of

crystals. I may also refer to Melloni's own remark with regard
to the effect of increased thickness in the screen, "that the ob
struction is not at the first surface (as with light), but (as if the
heat were conducted through the screen) in the substance of the
screen itself."

· On this subject sec Loud, and Edinb. Phil. Mag., vol. viii. p. 100.
                ON THE RADIATION OF HEAT.                                                  1GU

With reference to the thermomultiplier, it will, I believe, be
found to be most useful in experiments with screens of various

Isorts ; its delicacy is, no doubt, very great, but its expensive na
ture is unfavourable to its general introduction.      believe the
aetherial thermometer will be found at least as delicate an indi
cator of small changes of temperature; but the instrument may
be made still more sensitive by using aether saturated with am
                                       more delicate still by substituting other
monia,    or   inFcaormapdaarya'bsly"  volatile carburetted hydrogen," or the
liquids,   as

Ilt(iowquhsiaudgtsgeossfthotsuhuledcbcpoarnnedfeeanrp)spelidecuagctiahoslnoersin, oef.forthineIsstetamnlacateyt,erbseubloptdhhiuoerusog,uhstbutaacbIisducraodnr
vouch for its practicability, at least with reference to sulphurous

acid, as I actually produced the effect by introducing quicksilver
and sulphuric acid into one of the balls of a differential ther
mometer, and after it                                                                      Not
being certain how far  Iwahasdsesaulcecdeeadpepdl,yiInignchaeuatitoutoslytheapbpallile. d   my
hand to the other ball, on which the tube instantly broke where
it had been joined, and the colourless liquid, which had pre
                half filled this ball, entirely disappeared,  with an
viously nearly  Ievolution of sulphurous acid gas.            not had
overpowering                                           have
time since to   Imake another trial, but hope to be able to    accom
plish it in the course of the next month.
   Should the experiments              mentioned in    dthifeficbuelgtinsnuibnjgect,ofI    this
paper be thought to throw              any light on a                                      feel

it but justice to state, in concluding, that any advantage which
science may derive from their execution is essentially due to the
spirited individuals who originated the British Association, as
Ithough forming a portion ouly of a series planned many years

ago, should probably have never carried them into effect if it
had not been for the stimulus produced by reading Professor
Powell's excellent Report in the first volume of the Transac
tions of the Association.
                                            171

^hird Report of Experiments on the Quantities of Ruin full-
    ing at different Elevations above the Surface of the Ground
   fwWaFets.itGishlYol.iorSRar.Pkem,,mhSiauelGrlncikdrprseeastraty.oarni,keesJntuheonfa.R,ttheestahuneYldtosrrekPoqsrfuhoeiftrsehetsesPooEhrfxilpotehPsreohimpAihlesliicnspaotslsc,i,aSbtoiFyoo.niRPetr.ySboy.;

At the conclusion of the second series of experiments, the
square gauges, which had been employed for two years, were
removed, and replaced by others of a different form, which were
arranged in a different manner. Three gauges were placed at
each station, and a duplicate set of the ground gauges was fixed
in Mr. Phillips's garden. Each gauge was cylindrical, 5 inches
in diameter and 12 inches high ; one of them (C) was an open
cylinder, the others (B and A) were furnished with a funnel

\decreasing to a hole of inch, and a small lateral discharge-

pipe £ inch in diameter, but 1 inch below the edge. This dis
charge-pipe was left constantly open. The object of this ar
rangement was to procure data as to the rate of evaporation at
the different stations, both from the open vessel C and the

gauges A and B. For this purpose a certain depth of water
was poured into C, and its level, fluctuating with evaporation
and rain, was measured at the same time that the gauges A and B
were examined. The difference in inches and tenths between

the measure             of the water first  introduced   into C, augmented by
                        rain in A,-- and    the depth   of the residuary water
itnheCd, e--ptghavoe f
                        the amount of evaporation in a given time.
The difference between A and B was this : The gauge A was
emptied frequently, sometimes immediately after rain, while B
was left for longer periods. The difference of the measured
rain in each gave of course the difference of the evaporation
from them. This part of the experiments served only to prove
that the amount of evaporation from either gauge was very
small. From various causes, and principally from the extreme
inconvenience attending the laborious ascent of the Minster and
Museum, the experiments on evaporation were not persisted in

after August.
172 FIFTH REPORT -- 1S35.

The following is a general table of results for the third year :

      1834.S5.                        RAIN.                 EVaPORATlON

                         Minster. Museum. Ground.   from Feb. 1. to the several dates.
                                                    Minster. Museum. Ground.

Feb. 1 to March 1.       Inches.  Inches.  Inches.   Inches.  Inches.   Inches.
                         0.480    0.670               2.330     1.220    0.640
                   6.                      1040                          2.312
                         0.416    0000     0.772     3096       1.570    2.921
                   21.   0.010    0110     0.262     4.936     2.480     3.782
                         01 93    0.326    0.558                1.256    4.432
April . .          12.   .                            7.129    4.816     4.667.
                                  0.982    1115       8.229    5.522     5.482
                21.      0.810    0.300    0.360               6 738      7. 169
                         0.219    1.726    1.862      8.S89    9.614      9.694
May . .            1.             01 15                       10.829
                         1.080    2.770    0.32.5   11 068    12019     11134
                   10'.  0 021    0.360    3.240              14.559    11 674
                                  0.940    0.540    14.683    16.549    12.694
June     ..        18.   1.930    1.526    1.220    18159
July     ..        11.   01 73    1.710    1.815    19539
                                           2 830    22.212
                   21.   0.720
                                                    23.707
August . .         9.    1 127
                         1085
                   30.

October            3.

January         31.

         Totals .        8.294 12. 135 15939

         Ratios . .      5203 7613 100.00

                                           U.UANTITIES OF RAIN.

                                           Minster. Museum. Ground.

             3 wann months        ....     Inches.  Inches.    Inches.
             .5 wann months       ....     3.924    5.911
             7 wi'.rm months               5.270    7.737      7187
             7 cold months                          904.5      9.302
             5 cold months                 6.273    3.410     11 035
                                           2.311    3.090
             3 cold nionths                2.021    2.380      5.462
                                           1.505               4.904
                                                               3.870

            Remarks on the Results of the Experitnents.

   The results in the preceding table complete the series of three
years' observations which it was originally proposed to execute;
the gauges have now been removed, and the experiments are
ended. A condensed view of the conclusions which seem fairly
derivable from them may be useful, as a preliminary to the ma
thematical investigations and further experimental researches
which the subject appears to demand.

   No sooner was the first series of results tabulated, than they
wrre easily seen to be principally dependent on two ascertainable
      ON THE QUANTITIES OF RAIN AT YORK.                                                                    173

conditions, viz., the vertical measure of the tract of air interven

ing between the stations, and the temperature of the season of
the year; the former determining the ratio of the differences of
quantity of rain at different elevations above the ground, the
latter influencing the amount of these differences. The depen
dence of this amount upon the temperature inversely, and con
sequently upon the humidity of the season directly, led to an
attempt at a simple explanation of the phenomenon, not ma
terially different from that proposed (as M. Arago has informed
me) without experimental proof by M. Boisgiraud.
The second series of observations confirmed very completely
the conclusion previously adopted, of the dependence of the
amount of the difference of rain between a station on the ground

                                              upon the temperature in
a
                            a

                                                      it,
                                                                              a
and others at some height above
versely. But the ratio of the differences at different elevations,

-which had been formerly supposed constant, was found to vary,
and also to exhibit some characteristic variations in different
seasons of the year. This suggested the hope of determining,
by third series, the limits of the variation of the ratio, not only
in different years, but in different seasons of the year, and of

thus advancing considerable step toward satisfactory solu
tion of the whole problem.
We may first consider the amount of the differences between
the quantity of rain at the upper stations and that on the ground;
this being exactly proportional to the coefficient m in the discus
sion of the first series.

Table of the Quantities of Rain and Ratios of he Quantities
  at the Three Stations, for Three Years, in different Seasons
   of the Year.
                        .
                            .Minster. Museum. Ground.                                              Ratios.
                                                        1
7 53  summer months. .                                                                     !Inches.lnches.Inches.66.3585.83100
                          13.473      7.430   20.306                                        64.82   84.50   100
35    warmer months ....                                                             t20. 12630.91664.4283.84100
      warmer months ....  20012     32.320    38.551                                        53.58   73.82   100
                                    25.100                                                  52.60   73.62
      colder months       24.834              33.999                                        49.94  -70.26   100
      winter months                 19.789    26.879                                                        100
                          18.220    12.170    17.320

                          14.130
                          11138

General ratio derived from the sums of the quantities 59.15 79.14 100
174 FIFTH REPORT -- 1835.

Table of the   Differences  between        the Ratios                       of the Quanti/io,
   of Rain at   the Upper,                 and Lower                        Statiotis, in rela
                            Middle,

tion to the Temperature of the Season.

                            Temp.  Differences from                         Sum of  4
                               t'            100.                           d+<f.
                                                                                    48.12
                                       d d>                                         5000
                                                                                    52.93
3 summer months. . . .         o   33.65                          1417      47.82   7010
                                   35.18                          15.50     50.68   74.47
5 warmer months             608                                   1616      51.74   80G1
                            58.5   35.58                          26.18     72.60
7 warmer months ....        55 1   46.42                          26.38     73.78
                            40.8   47 40                          29.74     79.80
7 colder months             39.3   50.06
                            36.3
5 colder months

3 winter months ....

                                  48.2 (-- 0                                60.71   60.71

                                                                              A

   The last column gives the numbers corresponding to the

simple formula A -p.> vv'ncn shows clearly the real dependence

of the amount of the diminution of rain at the upper stations
upon the temperature of the season inversely.

   The dependence of the ratio of the differences of rain, at
diffferent elevations above the ground, upon the height of the
stations, will appear from the following tables :

Table to show the Mean Annual Value of the Function of the
                                   Height h).
               ."}
                                                            (<f>            Differences from  Resulting
                                                                                      100.      value

                            Quantities.                                                        offh.

First scries     Inches.          lnches.                          Inches.  33.90   14.70     h**
                 15.715                                           23.785    41.79   22.78
Second do.       14.963           20182                                     47.97   23.87
Third do. .                       19.850                          25.706
                   8.294                                          15.939
                                  12. 135

General mean of  12.990 17.389                                    21.810    40.44   20.27     ir*st
    three years                                                             41.22   20.45

Mean of the differences from 100
ON THE QUANTITJE3 OF RAIN AT YOIIK.                                  175

Table to show the Variation of $ h in different Seasons of the
          Year, according to. Three Years' Observations.

                                       $ h derived   <Ph calculated
                                            from                V
                        "no«/·
                                       observation.

3 summer months. . . .  Inches.        A.55          A.65
                         60.8          /,.5°.        A.53
5 warmer months ....                                 KSO
7 warmer months ....     58.5          A.60          VS1
3 winter months ....                   h.SJ          h.3S!
                         55.1          /,.37         h1S

                         40.8          4»
                         39.3
                         363

   It follows from the last table that the exponent of the func

tion of height varies as the temperature of the season, or

-4*>Ah
=s                      "--44--*'   =  --'
                                       110

   The whole may therefore be put under the form d = p hn*
and the value of the coefficient p may be determined from the
following table :

Table of the Value of p considered variable with the Tempera
                     ture, and Height given in Feet.

                        Sdu+mdo'.f     Sum of the    j>inferred.  o calculated
                                        values of                         fi.e
                        60.71           observed.
                        47.82                                        1.999
                        50.68          15.84         (i) 3.830       2.227
                        51.74          27.05                         2.580
                        72.60          23.36               1.768     6.108
                        73.78          21.19              2.169      6.783
                        79.80          11.31              2.441      8.472
                                       11.31              6.419
                                                           6.523
                                         9.34              8.544

    The last column shows how nearly the value of the coefficient

p is represented by a function of the temperature of the season.
By using a constant the agreement becomes very close,

              ('.-*£-*°>
17(5 FIFTH RKPORT 1835.

   Having thus reduced both the function of height and the
coefficient to a dependence on temperature, we are enabled to
institute a very severe comparison of the formula with experi
ment.

                                 Calculated by     Calculated with

                   Observed.     andp=6  i--2.8-·            Ji.8               Vahne of  ]>,.
                   d. rf'.                                          <fh, iphr ;>.
                                         t,2 a     p,=4..--.eoo.

                                                         . ti28

                   40.44 20.27 40.48 20.18 40.16 20.02 10.57 5.27 3.83 3.80

3 summer months    33.65  14.17  38.10  15.90      35.85  15.00     19.07  7.98  1.99     1.88
5 warm months .    35.18  15.50  38.00  16.40      36.14  15.61     17.13  7.40  2.22     2.11
7 warm months .    35.58  16.60  37.40  17.36      36.96  17.16     14.49        2.58     2.550
7 cold months . .  46.42  26.18  44.34  24.65      44.8   24.96            6.73  6.10     6.179
£ coldest months   47.40  26.38         25.90      46.37  26.35      7.26  4.04           6.88
3 winter months.   50.06         45.70  30.30      50.37  29.89      6.74  3.83  6.78     8.64
                          29.74  49.38                               5.83  3.46  8.47

  It may be proper to offer some remarks on the probable con

sequences to meteorology of prosecuting this subject both ma
thematically and experimentally, and to indicate a form of ex

periment which may be advantageously followed in all cases.
Admitting that the three years' results above discussed are a fair

average for the climate of York, and adopting the formula as ex
pressing at least the nature of the proximate influential causes,
we shall find its interpretation full of curious interest.

   First, it must follow that, upon the average, rain (commencing
at what Sir John Herschel calls the vapour plane) originates at a
greater elevation in the atmosphere in the summer than in the
winter. This is in conformity with Crossthwaite's Table of
Clouds, given in Dr. Dalton's Meteorological Essays, where in
the five warmer months, May, June, July, August, and Septem
ber, 219 clouds in a month are noticed above 1050 yards in

height, but in November, December, January, February, and
March only 126,
The same inference results from considering the rain as ori
ginating either at a height corresponding to a certain reduced
temperature, or at the point in the air where the dew-point
= the m.t. of the period. In this latter case, using Mr. Darnell's
numbers for the climate of London, the vapour plane, or origin
of rain, will be

In January                                         900 feet high.
In July
For the whole year        .'.                           3270        ,,
                                                   ... M>50
                                                                    ,,

The view previously advanced, that the rain-drops augment
       ON THE QUANTITIES OF RAIN AT YORK.                                       177

in passing downwards, is in strict conformity with these re
sults·.

   Secondly. It appears to indicate that the air very near the

ground is much more highly charged with vapour than that at
moderate heights, so that the moisture of the air would seem to
follow a very different law of distribution from that of mean
temperature, the dew-point approximating to or meeting the
mean temperature on the ground, and at one or more variable
heights above it. As far as a few observations can be relied on,
this effect does obtain to the height of 25 feet in the day during
summer.

   Experiment July 9, 1 835. -- In a garden where rain had fallen
last night. Three thermometers (A dry, B and C wetted).

Cloudy day, but sun partially appearing; 10 a.m.

                                        A. B.                              C.

1 inch from ground, gravel walk 62.5 2.6 59.9 3.5                         590

30 inches above                            62.4     58.5                  57 5
                                     .I 623
                                                    58.2 }495{ 57.3
                                        63.5        58.9                  57.9
150 inches above                     <  63.3        58.5   1 5.55 1       57.8
270 inches
                                        64. 1 50    58.5   6.6            57.5

   On the same day I ascended the Minster with Mr. William

Gray, and found with other thermometers,

                                                    A. B.

       4 feet high before ascending                 61 .5  56.7      4.8

       80 feet high                              {  61.5   j58.3 I   5.6

       200 feet high (dew-point 52°)             {  61.4   57.3      5.8
                                                    64.3             4.55
       Ground (2 inches above) after descending            56S-5.5\
                                                    63.6   563-.4/

                                                    62.5   57.55
                                                    620
                                                    621

   Rain fell immediately afterwards, while the dew-point = 52°
and air 62°.

   Thirdly. We may be sure that by the continuation of experi

tmohfeencgtlisemnaientreaw,l e--alls-bpsoeetlcehtcatwendidthssuritreuflaaactteiioonnosf,taoctomhueenatinrnyfl,tue--emncpmeearyaotbuferethd, eetmevraomrisiaitnuteiroden.,

As far as can be seen at present, it appears probable that the

* Mr. Howard's view ef an indefinite raining space is less applicable.

1835.                                   n
   178 FIFTH RKPORT-^-1835.

   function of the height would be greater and the coefficient less,
   and that both of these would be                                                                          in
   lower latitudes, and the contrary.                                  sIutbjiesctalstoo   less variation  the
                                                                                          probable that
   decrease in the quantity of rain, as we ascend above the surface,
   will be least in the warm regions of the globe and greatest in the
   cold zones. There is less difference at Paris than at York.

     Fourthly. It is probable that in countries uniformly moist,
   or of uniform temperature, the results would be materially dif
   ferent from those obtained in a climate so changeable as that of
   the British Islands.
                                                                <'

       Fifthly. It would follow from the formula that the differences
   In the values of <p h and p in different years depend very much
   upon the season of the year when the rain fell in greatest quan
   itity. Thus, $ h was greatest in 1832-3, and nearly twice as

   much rain fell in the warm as in the cold months ; h was
   least in 1833-4, and in that year, on the contrary, the larger
                   of rain fell in
   proportion                                          cold         months.                     real differences
      Sixthly.     It is probable                      that
                                                                    there will be found
   Ibetween the results obtained for daily and nightly periods.
        may now    porfooprodsienaaryploabnseorvf eersx,pearnimd elinktesly,suiffficeixeenctluytedwicthonin
   the  command

   temporaneously at three or more selected points, to furnish a
   mass of good evidence towards the mathematical investigations
   which the subject seems to deserve, These should include uni
   form daily measures of temperature of the air and moist sur
   faces, amount of evaporation, direction, and mean velocity or
   amount of wind, and fall of rain at three or four stations, the
   height of the two or three upper ones being known to feet and
   inches above the lower one, which should be on the ground.
   The height of this above the level of the sea should be ascer
   tained. The following is a plan of the register proposed, which

   includes some occasional observations.                                   The instruments must
   all be furnished by the Association,

   [Place], N. Lat. [ ·], W,Long. [                                         ttbove-Sea in Feet
                                                                            ,],-
                             Mean Temp, of the Year                            [
                   [
                                                                                      ].
                           ],
                     Wind.   Ground.-- above mean                      Mlddle -- above ground,  Upper -- above ground,
                   Dir'.Vd.            t. Clevel of the sea, feet              feet[                    feet
                                                   3-
                                                                              '/· Rain.
Date.   Barometer                                    ii*,· - a         1.                       ii</.
             and                                                                                    11
                                                                Rain.      'u                                            Rain.
        Thermom.
                                                                                           '
                                                                                           J-

                                                                                                                t.
                                                                                                                      [

                                                                                                                       J.

9  A.M. 29-865 fin E. 15     58                                 1132 81 57  1-000 6o 56                                     -800
9T.M. 29-873 61 E. in 63 »9                                     1-731 62    1-500 61 59                                    1-200
ON THE QUANTITIES OF RAIN AT YORK.                                       179

    Occasional remarks may be made on approach to perpen
dicularity of rain ; showery or continued rain ; size of drops at
the different stations ; hail, snow, &c. The situations chosen
for the experiment should be in open, plain countries, because
the influence of the form of undulated ground is extremely un
certain : stations should be selected on opposite sides of the
island, as well as in the interior: the central plains of Ireland,
and some parts of Scotland, offer excellent points. The ele
vations of the upper stations above the ground ought to be
nearly the same at all the places of experiment, and the highest
need not exceed 100 feet, as the following state of results, ob
tained by the care of my friend Mr. W. D. Littledale, at Bolton
Park in Craven, will prove.

                                Wall above   House.top,      Church
                                  rround.    34 ft. 3 in.    Tower,
                                 Oft. 6 in.                81 ft. 8 in.

October  1834 to January  1835  Inches.      Inches.       Inches.
March                            8.40         8.27          7.37
                                                            1.46
May 15                           214          1.94          3.92

July20                           4.77         470           3.78
                                 4.10
                                              3.90

                                19.41        18.81         1653

                          N2
                           [ 181 ]

i^Iirrstt  thReepPolyrmt oonuththeDHoockuyrlayrd,ObLseartv.at5i0on°s21o' fNt.h,e   Thermometer
   at
By Mr. W. S. Harris, F.R.S., 8fc.                                                 Long. 47° W.

At the meeting of the British Association in September, 1831,
                      of   Mathematical
the Sub-committee           recommend,            "anthdat  Physical Science
deemed it advisable    to                                     the Association

should employ all the means in its power to procure a Re
gister of the Thermometer during every hour of the day and
night, to be kept at some military or naval station in the South
of England*," considering that the progress of meteorology
materially depends on a thorough acquaintance with the pheno
mena of diurnal temperature. Soon after this judicious recom
mendation, two registers were commenced at Devonport near
Plymouth; one under the superintendence of the late Mr. Harvey,

F.R.S., &c, the other under my own. The former was under
taken at the immediate request of the Association. The latter
was offered to its notice more as an individual contribution ; it

had been already contemplated, and was suggested by a series
of meteorological inquiries carried on at Plymouth for several
successive years. In speaking of Mr. Harvey, it is impossible
to withhold the expression of that just tribute of respect due to
the memory of an individual whose talents so greatly contributed
to advance him in the estimation of the scientific world. The
Association has lost in Mr. Harvey a zealous and able member,

whose natural powers were carefully and most industriously
cultivated. Had he lived, our Reports would have doubtless
been greatly enriched by the results of his labours on this occa
sion. His register, from the decline of his health, is however,
Inot continued for a sufficient time to render it available to the
purpose for which it was undertaken.              have, through the
kindness of Mrs. Harvey, been put in possession of all the ob

servations received; these have been carefully discussed and
compared f- So far                                of consequence, although
                      as they go  tJh,eysinacree  they enable us to observe
only noted for every   two hours

the influence of local circumstances on the indications of two

similar thermometers placed within a short distance of each

other.
In order to obtain effectually such an hourly register as that

   · First Report, p. 49.        kindly assisted  in the discussion               of these ob
   t Mr. George Harvey has very

servations.

  J Second Report, p. 574.
 182 FIFTH REPORT 1835.

 in contemplation, an early application was made to Capt. Super
 intendent Ross, of the Dockyard, who interested himself in the
undertaking, and with that kind liberality and courtesy for which
 he is so greatly distinguished, speedily afforded every just en
 couragement to the views of the British Association in this great
 endeavour to advance the interests of science. The hourly re
 gister, therefore, was soon commenced and carried on by the
 Warders and Officers of the Watch stationed at the gate, all

persons of respectability and character·. It is due to them to

 say, that they have entered with more than common interest
 into the scheme, and have used every exertion to render the ob
servations as perfect as possible. Little difficulty has hence
arisen in obtaining the series of thermometric observations in
the South of England, as contemplated by the Association,
which for extent and accuracy may perhaps be considered the
most perfect of any yet recorded.

    The thermometer is placed in an insulated position, just
within a small circle of grass, about 60 feet above the level of
the sea, and distant from it about 300 yards : it is sheltered
from direct and indirect radiation, local heat, humidity, and
other disturbing causes, by a light screen of latticed wood-work,
quite open toward the north-east, and painted of a light colour ;
this screen is small, and is fixed on a single vertical pillar, as
represented in Plate V. The lattices round the sides and be
neath are made in the way of Venetian blinds, so that there
is always a free current of air in circulation, and little chance
of error from the absorption of heat by the screen. The lat
ticed work below inclines at a sufficient angle to cut off all re
flexion from the ground. There is a small sliding index of brass

attached to the instrument, in the way of a T square ; one arm

projects over a slate, whilst the other can at any time be made
to coincide with the surface of the mercury, and thus show with

more precision its exact indications;' A line may at the same
time be drawn on the slate, coincident with the position of the

mercury at the time of an observation ; and thus when requi
site we may again compare the entries made in the register du
ring the night. The continued habit, however, of registering
the observations has rendered this now unnecessary. The in
strument itself is a valuable one ; it was obtained from Mr. Cox,
optician, of Devonport, whose skill in the construction of philo-

   · Mr. Isaac Watts, also of the Dockyard, a gentleman of considerable at
tainments in science, educated at the late school of Naval Architecture at Ports
mouth, has been so good as to interest himself in the success of this undertaking,
and by an occasional attendance to the progress of the observations has done
much in forwarding them.
                    Ft/M rfn'rf <.r't/n-/inf.. /. r.nn\ /or t/tr (ttftwtermmt of Sfitrur.tas*
                                                                 lot. //I lf..lTE 5.pJ#2.

C (n.id<Stak tivl.  .rW.L^my thtlf.
ON THE HOURLY OBSERVATIONS OF THE THERMOMETER. 183

sophical instruments is well known and appreciated. It agrees
well with a fine thermometer by the late Mr. Crichton of
:·.·>.'IGlasgow, made by him expressly for meteorological observa

tions, and with which am led to believe he took more than
ordinary pains.                                        i
   The thermometer  used                                                                obtained
from Mr. Cox,                                by Mr, Harvey was also
                  and agreed                 well with  that at the Dockyard.
It was placed in  the Artillery              Square at  Devonport in an appro
priate screen of wood, fixed against the walls of the line of bar
racks facing the north, about 90 feet above the level of the sea
and distant from it about a quarter of a mile. The sides, back,
and roof of the screen were formed of double planks, filled in
between with sawdust, so as to shelter the instrument as much

as possible from local heat and other disturbing causes·. The
non-commissioned officers who went round with the relief guard

entered the observations in a printed form most judiciously
drawn up and supplied by Mr. Harvey. Acknowledgements
are due to Serjeant Anderson of the Artillery, and others under
his guidance, for the great care and attention which they be

stowed on the register.
On comparing the mean results of the two registers, from
their commencement in May, 1832 to the termination of Mr.
              cJoumlyp, ar1i8s3o3n, f--, --orweatfinledasbtutsulicthtlepedrifffeecrtenpcoertbioentsweeans
Harvey's  in
admitted  of

them, as  may be perceived                   einacthhemfoonltlho.winIgt  table which contains
the mean  temperatures for                                               will be perceived that

the numerical coincidences .are very striking, more especially

when we take into account the circumstance, that the results in

the one case have been deduced from an observation taken every
two hours only, the other from hourly observations.

                                             1832

Registers.    May.       June.               Jury. Aug. Sept. Oct. \ Nov.               Dec.

              5370       58.6                61.40 61.20 58.30           54.10   49.40       47.40
                                                                         53.20   47.97  not obicned
Artillery Barracks. 53.98 not f bserved 62.20 61.95 58.27                                throughout.

                                                  throughout.

                                             1833.

Registers.          Jan.                     Feb. March. April. May. June.              July.

                                      41.70  46.80  41.80 , 48.40        58.     57.47  61.30
                                                    41. 07 48 -29        5 9.31  57.86  61.74
Artillery Barracks. 40.42                    450 9

   · See Second Report, p. 574.                                    with, in consequence        of thd

   t The observations were occasionally interfered

regiment being sent on military and other service.
184 FIFTH REPORT 1835.

    I have thought it worth while to allude to this coincidence, as
it shows the  care with which the
been made.                          respective  observations have
              I find, however, on   comparing    the registers for
particular hours, that some greater differences arise, as might be
anticipated from the different local circumstances under which

the thermometers were placed; the thermometer in the Dockyard
is from its free position less exposed to the influence of local
                                                       Barracks. It
heat than  that formerly employed at the   Artillery
           believe, in any case desirable  to place   a thermometer
is not, I
so close to the roof of a low building, upon which the sun's rays
in summer are powerfully acting, and within which the ordinary
avocations of domestic life are carried on ; it seems, however, in

this case to have been unavoidable. This is, perhaps, alone suf
ficient to account for the generally small increase of temperature
                                         above tables. In the mode
at  the Artillery  Square shown in  the
of  exposure of    the thermometer   at  the Dockyard, I have en

deavoured, so far as possible, to fulfill the conditions incidental
to the exposure of a thermometer suspended in free space under
the shade of a tree, avoiding at the same time the effects of hu

midity. This is, I believe, by far the most accurate method of

observing atmospheric temperature.
 . The register was commenced on the first day of May, 1832,
and has been continued hourly every day and night since, without

Iany intermission. The observations have been fairly copied and

reduced up to May, 1835*, so that am enabled to present the
Association with the results of at least two complete years, be
ginning with January, 1833, and ending with December, 1834.
These full years have been selected with a view to an immediate
comparison with the results of the hourly register carried on at
Leith in the years 1824 and 1825: the observations have been

arranged and discussed according to the method resorted to by

Sir David Brewster in his capital paper on the Leith Observa
tions in the 10th vol. of the Transactions of the Royal Society
of Edinburgh.

   The months of December, January, and February are taken
as winter months; March, April, May, months of spring;
June, July, August, summer months ; September, October, and
November autumnal months.. The six months of summer be
gin with April and end with September, both inclusive ; the six

   · Mr. T. A. Southwood, of the Classical and Mathematical School at Mount
Wise, Dcvonport, has very kindly afforded me his valuable assistance in discuss
ing the observations.

   Mr. Hoskyn also and Mr. G. Harvey have contributed much to advance the
work. The cooperation of these gentlemen has been of great consequence, since
the labour of copying and reducing above twenty-six thousand observations is
by no means small, as is well knowli to every one engaged in a similar under

taking.
ON THE HOURLY OBSERVATIONS OF THE THERMOMETER. 185

winter months begin with October and end with March, both
inclusive. Sir David Brewster seems to have joined October to
the winter months, and April and May to the summer months,
from having observed a coincidence in the form of the projected
curves of temperature of April and May with those of summer,
and the curve of October with those of winter. This classifica
tion appears natural and sufficiently perfect, and is not opposed
to the results of the observations at Plymouth, the daily curve
for October being more flattened and of less range than   that  of
April or May, as may be seen by a reference to Plate            in
                                                         VII.
which the monthly curves are projected. When the register
terminates it may be perhaps desirable to consider the results of
other distributions ; this may be done with but little additional
trouble, since the observations are carefully recorded in large
folio volumes, and all the monthly and annual means computed
and set down ; including intervals of ten days each.

   The numerical results for the years 1833 and 1834, of the
hourly, daily, and monthly temperatures, as also for periods of
three months each, comprising spring, summer, autumn, and
winter, likewise summer and winter, including six months
each, are given in the eight following tables. From these we
may readily deduce :

    1 . The mean temperature of various seasons, and that of the
whole year.

   2. The daily progression of temperature.
   3. The two periods of each day at which the mean tempera
ture occurs.
   4. The relation between the mean temperature of the whole
twenty-four hours, and that of any single hour, or of two similar
hours.

   5. The average daily range for each month.
   Lastly, the form of the curves described by the march of the
temperature between given periods of the day and night.
186 FIFTH REPORT 1835.

                       Hourly Register for 1833.
Table I. Containing the Daily and Monthly Mean Tempera

                                      ture for 1833.

Day.  Jan. Feb. Mar. April. May. June. July. Aug. Sept. Out. Not. I Dec.

   1  43.8  441   43.2  501   49.9 610     540   63.8   52.9  53.2  54.4    52.7
   3  46.7  48.9  50.2  49.8  53.8 57.5          60.6   540   53.2  51.7    49.7
  3   40.6  500   500   51.0  53.9 52.3    55.1  61.7   56.9  53.5  49.6    50.7
   4  37.4  52.0  47.2  50.6  57.2 54.6    56.8  58.7   54.2  56.8  45.6    53.2
   5  366   51.1  470   46.6  57.2 57.0    58.5  58.9   54.2  52.7  50.4    47.9
   6  40.6  50.8  43.9  481   60.0 57.2    60.8  59.2   57.6  53.0  ;>l,ii  46.5
   7  41.9  50.4  43.2  47.2  59.4 59.7    62.3  59.2   58.0  54.3          48.9
   8  41-7  50.7  39.5  46.9  59.1 60.8    58.7  61 .2  59.2  53.0  48.9    48.7
   9  40.7  46.4  36.2  510   54.6 ! 60.5  60.7  60.7   61.7  55.2  46.4    54.2
 10   45.0  50.4  38.0  49.9  54.3 60.5    61.2  60.5   59.4  55.8  49.9
                                           66.7                     53.5    47.6

11 45.7 47.9 38.7 470 57.0 : 57.6 61.5 60.5 58.9 55-0 53 0 43.3

18 45.9 50.2 36.7 460 58.3 j 56.7 60.0 59.1 55.1 51.7 49.4 430
13 4.V.I 48.5 37.7 47.5 56.2! 56.6 61.3 57.8 67.3 53.0 50.8 46.7
14 45.7 47.7 40.7 47.2 59.9 ' 57.8 590 57.5 59.3 57.3 44.2 48.4

15 41.7 40.3 38.5 45.4 630 | 57.1 601 57.4 570 49 7 43.9 52.2

16    391 41.4 44.3 430 579 59.3 63.5            58.8   57.3  50.4  51.5    52.5
17                                     ['        580    56.7  50.5  54.7    48.4
      410   490   43.0  440   57.0 58.6    64.2

18 40.9 43.9 42.5 44.4 56.7 58.9 64.7 60.5 56.6 52.2 50.5 50.9

19 382 43.7 41.3 46.5 57.9 57.7 620 62.8 580 49.9 46.6 53.0

20 391 44.5 42.0 51.1 57.0 55.7 59.2 63.3 54.8 51.5 51.7 49.8

21 38.8 45.4 40.5 51.6 550 58.3 590 63.9 57.6 56.9 521 43.5

22 38.2 440 39.3 50.3 61.9 58.4 601 601 58.9 56.6 53.7 50.9

23 41.8 43.5 37.7 51.6 64.9 56.6 59.9 59.1 58.9 53.5 48.8 53.2

24 39.8 47.5 38.6 51.8 65.0 55.2 600 59.3 59.7 581 47.2 51.0

25 41.8 461 40.1 49.9 65.7 54.2 59.2 59.5 57.2 58.7 42.5 47.0
26 41.1 45.6 40.4 49.5 58.4 53.7 63.7 58.9 54.4 56.4 430 48.1

27 39.5 43.9 40.8 510 55.5 56.8 65.5 57.7 53.8 57.6 49.3 47.7

28 47.4 44.5 42.9 49.2 56.7 56.4 68.7 60.9 55.7 58.6 48.8 47.7

29 44.7           43.6 46.3 57.3 590 60.4 60.7 54.8 59.7 48.2 53.3

30 41.9 ... 42.8 49.4 58.2 58.4 68.5 58.6 53.8 58.0 49.2 52.8

31 40.9 ... 47.2              60.7         63.5 56.8 ... 55.8               501

Means 41.7 46.8 41.8 48.4 58.0 57.47 61.4 59.8 56.79 54.5 49.4 49.47

Mean temp, of the whole year by this table, from 8760 observations, 52.1 1.
ON THE HOURLY OBSERVATIONS OF THE THERMOMETER. 187

Table II. Showing the Mean Temperature of each Hour for

              each Month of 1833, and for the whole Year.

        Jan. Feb. Mar. April May. June, July. Aug, Sept.          Nov.              Mean An
                                                                         Dec. nuoajlcteamctip,

                                                                                      hour.

1 A.l   40.40    1038.5044.                56.3O 0 H00 52.80 51.2047     48.66  48.80
        40.50                    I         SS-80 53.5at 52.50 51.0047    48.70  48.52
2 ..    40.20                                                            48.70  48.34
3 ..    40.20    7038S.2044                         53.10 52.40 50.8047  48.60  48.14
4 ..    40.00    -Otl'SS ·10 44            .-.5.0O52.; 70 52.16 50.26    48.60  48.14
5 ..    39.70    2037                      55.30*52 70 5840 50.00        48.76  48.85
                                           57.4054 00 53.26 50.30
6..

 7 ..   39.80    38i.,.,0                  59.9056   54.50 51.10         4910   50.18
        40.50    1080                      62.2060   57.06 52.96         49.50  5214
 8 ..   41.20    12t.Sll                             58.90 55.96         49.70  53.67
 9 ..   42.20                              63.70(63  6100 58.10          50.70  5514
        43.20       .-0:1                            61.90 59.80         51.20  5615
10..    44.3049  15i.50                    65.8oW    63.06 60.56         51.70  56.95
                 46.7053.70)64             67.2066
11 ..,                                     67.6066

12..

1 p.* 44.40      47.20 54           64.70  67.6067   63.30 60.90 53.6051.80     5715
                 46.7053            65.00  67.0067   63.30 60.1053.7051.30      56.86
2 ...   43.90    46.00              64.20  67.2066   621659.2052.36 50.70       56.22
3 ..,   43.90    45.40              63.48  66.50     610058.0051.40 50.36       55.47
4 ..,   43.30    44.50              6210   65.30     59.36 56.46 50.20 49.26    54.32
                 43.30              00.36  63.60     57.8054.90'49.86 49.10     53.20
5 ...   42.60
6 ...                               58.4   61.90
        4200                        56.87  60.30
                                    55.60  58.90
 7 ...  41.70 46456 12.20           54.20  57.90     56.2054.00 lIl 4906 52.16
 8 ..,                              53.89  57.30
 9 ...  m41.20   41.50              53.28  56.5054   554653.50           4906 51.38
10 ...
11 ..,           46.60 10.90                         54.6052.90 IS' 49.00 50.70
12 ...  41.00 Hi.;>o40.40
                                                     53.6652.40 .lS 48.86 50.00

        40.80 iti. 40 39.70                          5316151.86 47 48.86 49.65

        40.50 it;.; 39.10                            52.9051.76 47.60           49.17

Means 41.60 46.78 11.80 18.34 57.94 57.20 61.31 59.81 56.85 54.50 49.40 49.50 5213

Mean temp, of the whole year hy this table, from 8760 observations, 52.13.
188 FIFTH REPORT -- 1835.

                       Hourly Register for 1834.

Table III. Containing the Daily and Monthly Mean Tempera

                                     tures for 1834.

Day.   Jan. Feb. Mar. April. May. June. July. Aug.     Sept.  Oct.  Nov.  Dec.

    1  44.7  461   52.7  48.7  54.7  62.7  65.6  667   61.8   58.8  52.5  51.0
    2  44.2  46.2  51.8  51.7  551   630   65.7  68.0  59.5   59.5  50.7  50.1
   3   50.4  481   50.5  49.1  55.2  61.7  63.4  670   60.6   58.5  491   48.4
   4   51.6  47.0  51.8  47.9  58.8  55.4  65.2  641   63.9   62.2  51.6  51.4
    S        48.3  52.5  48.0  57.2  571   63.8        62.0   61.7  58.7  51.8
    6  490         49.3  49.7  55.9  591   63.4  62.7  59.7   61.2  57.3  531
    7  49.7  44;2  51.8  48.9        590   600   63.2  57.5   60.4  55.8  55.2
    8  46.4  44.3  52.2  48.0  57.4  60.5  64.5  61.5  60.4   58.9  50.7  46.8
    9  470   46.8  50.2  45.5  56.3  56.9  62.7  63.5  590    60.5  46.2  45.0
  10   45.0  43.7  49.5  45.0  52.3        62.0  63.2  59.0   54.2  46.7  45.2
       47.3  45.3              54.2  56.5        61.3
  11                                                   59.4   51.7  447   39.4
  12   500   46.8  49.2  42.5  53.3  55.2  60.0  64.3  59.9   56.4        40.7
  13   49.9  45.6  48.3  42.4  56.7  54.0  61.2  67.3  59.5   56.9  42.5  43.4
  14   51.2  44.6  49.5  44.7  56.6  56.7  61.7  64.4  59.4   57.3  38.9  38.8
  15         45.6  50.1  46.0  52.9  58.5  62.0  62.2  59.2   520   42.5  417
  16   49.5  48.0  47.9  51.5  57.2  58.4  62.9  64.8  63.7   57.5  44.5  45.4
   17  48.5  41.3  45.8  51.9  60.3  56.2  64.2  70.2  64.3   53.7  45.5  46.5
  18   52.5  40.6  45.1  51.3  53.8  57.2  69.3  69.6  63.4   49.9  48.5  44.2
  19   50.2  47.0  43.5  53.5  51.5  57.7  66.8  641   63.7   55.3  48.3  43.9
  20   50.1  48.8  43.4  55.9  53.4  59.4  60.5  631   64.3   58.4  43.6  427
       46.7  471   450   56.8  50.2  64.2  58.9  62.3               39.4
  21   48.1                                            65.8   52.9        41.5
  22                                                   62.8   53.7  39.9  42.5
  23   50.5  45.4  451   55.1  61.2  57.6  62.3  601   60.2   55.3  46.4  42.5
  24   50.9              49.2  63.4  58.7  65.6  59.5  59.5   43.5  45.6  38.3
  25   52.8  45.5  45.1  51.2  68.4  56.5        57.3  59.4   45.2  43.8  43.1
  26   53.2  50.3  48.5  48.0  65.7  58.8  66.7  55.5  620    42.4  430   44.0
  27   51.3  49.7  50.4  47.0  56.8  61.6  64.8  56.2  61.5   47.7  41.4  43.0
  28   52.6  45.7  45.7  49.3  54.8  59.6        56.4  600    531   43.5  43.5
  29   521   49.1  43.0  53.5  59.4  60.1  650   56.2  61.4   521   48.6  50.1
  30   48.3        49.4  55.1  61.7  58.1  57.4  58.0  59.7   52.5  48.3  53.9
       40.3  521   49.4  54.1  57.6        56.7  59.9               48.9
 .31   46.5  53.2  47.8  52.5  64.5  60.7  65.2  59.8  610    52.2        54.1
                                     631   64.6                     46.9
Means              461                     63.8               54.7        45.8

       48.6        44.2        61.2 ... 63.9 60.3

       49.0 46.80 48.2 49.8 57.3 58.8 63.2 62.3

Mean temp, of the whole year by this table, from 8760 observations, 53.65
ON THE HOURLY OBSERVATIONS OF THE THERMOMETER. 189

Table IV. Showing the Mean Temperature of each Hour for

             each Month of 1834, and for the whole Year.

Jan. Feb. Mar. April. May. June. July. Aug. Sept. Oct.                     Mean an
                                                                 Dec. nuoajleleaicnhp.

                                                                              hour.

1 A.M 48.6645 6046.00 7051           54.50          58.60 57.90  44.86 44.50          50.64
                                     54.10          5810 57.50   44.80 44.30          50.26
2 ... 48.3644 9045.56 3051           53.66                       44.90 44.20          49.98
                                     53.70           770 57.20   44.90 44.40          49.93
3 ... 48.2o'44 40 45.40    80J50     53.90          57.40 57.00  44.80 44.40          49.88
4 ... 48.1644 4500         7050'     55.80          57.20 57.20  44.76 44.40          50.45
                                                    58.50 57.40
5 ... 47.9044 44.90 5050.                50
                                     60.30          60.40 58.60
6 ... 47.50^3       44.96  3051      6176           63.10 60.20  45.00 44.30          5178
7 ... 4770.43       45.60            6210           65.40 62.70  45.30 44.60          53.29
                           MM1       6310           6670 64.70   46.80 45.20          54.99
                                     63.40          66.80 66.00  4840 46.40           56.39
8 ... 47.9044       47.3049 7057'                   67.50 67.10  49.60 47.60          57.53
9 ... 48.7645       49.1052 3059'                                50.60 49.30          58.39

10 ... 49.5047 507054 4061'

11 ... 50.4649.     52.00 70 62'
12 ... 50.8050.,    52.90 56 9o'63'

 1 P.M. 50.9051.20  40 5770 64- in 63.80 68.46      67.50        51.3049.60           58.85
 2 ... 50.4650.90   m 57.4064. 1tl 63.56 68.10      66.90        50.7048.80           58.44
 3 ... 50.0050.30    10 63.30 63.40 68.00           66.00        50.0048.30           57.86
 4 ... 49.8049.30   90 547062s40 62.46 67.36        64.40        48.6047.20           5678
 5 ... 49.36J47.60                                  62.90        47.40 46.20          5572
 6 ... 49.1047.50         53.4061.1 00 62.10 66.16  61.50        46.80 45.70          54.69
                     10 51.50 5!H60 60.90 65.26
 7 ... 49.2046.80                                   60.30        46.80 45.40          53.64
 8 ... 48.6046.40   70 49.40 .-)7-7; 0 59.56 63.86                                    52.72
 9 ... 48.5046.10   ·30 48.70 56.;50 5770 62.10     59.10 5646.40 45.20               52.21
10 ... 487045.90    70 48.00 55.;.'ill 56.80 60.70                                    51.64
11 ... 48.7646.10   ·50 46.40 (Kl 5610 60.10        59.00 20|46.20 45.10              51.27
12 ... 487046.00    *> 53.20 55.50 59.46                                              50.95
                    -tl0 45.20 M.i60 54.80 58.90    58.50                      45.20
                                                      8.30       80|45.90
                                                                 3045.46 44.90

                                                    58.20 52.2045.40 44.70

48.99 16.80 48.28 497057.10 i8.80 6315 62.50 6108 54.87 46.98 15.80 53.67

Mean temp, of the whole year by this table, from 8760 observations 53.67.
190 FIFTH REPORT 1S35.

     Mean Hourly Registers for the Years 1833 and 1834.

Table V. Containing the Daily and Monthly Mean Tempera

                                tures for 1833 and 1834.

Day. Jan. 1Yl>. Mar. | April. May. June. July. Aug. i Sept  Dec.

  1 44.25 45.1047.95 49.4052.30 61.85 59.80 65.25 57.35 56.0053.45 51.85
 2 45.45 47.55 51.0045.75 54.45J60.25 6O40M.3056.75I56.35 51.20 49.90
 3 45.50 49.05'50.25 50.05154.55157.OoWlO 64.3558.75J56.00 49.35 49.55
 4 44.50 49.5049.50 49.25 58.00 55.00 61.85 61.40 59.0559.50 48.6052.30

 5 42.80 49.7049.75 47.30 57.20 57.05 62.3060.80 58.1057.2054.55 49.85
 6 45.15 47.5046.60 48.9057.95 5815 62.85 61.2058.65 57.1055.65 49.80
 7 4415 47.35 47.00 48.0558.40559.35 59.35 60.35 57.75'57.35 52.35 52.05
 8 44.35 48.75 45.85 47.45'57.7060.65;62.60 6.2.35 59.80 55.95 48.55 47.75
 9 42.85 45.05 43.8048.2553.45 58.7061.95 61.95 60.35 57.85 48.05 49.60
10 4615 47.85 43.75 47.45 54.25 58.50 64.35 60.9059.20 55.00 50.1046.40

11 47.85^7.SO 43.95 44.75 55.15 56.40 60.75 62.4059.16|53.35 48.85 46.35
12 47.9047.85 42.5044.2057.5055.35 60.60 63.2oW.5054.05 45.95 41.85

13 48.3046.30 43.6046.1056.4056.65 61.5061.1058.40 54.95 44.85 45.05
14 47.6046.65 45.4046.60 56.4058.15 60.5059.85 59.35 57.3043.35 43.60
lS 451o[4415 43.2048.45j60.lo!57.75 61.5o!61.10 581050.85 44.2046.95
16 45.8041.35 4505 47.45£9.10,57.75,63.8"5 '64.50 60.50 53.95 (48.50 48.95
17 45.6044.80440547.6555.4057.9,507-9 66.75 63.80; 60.50 52. 105 1.6047.45
18 45.5045.45 43.0048.95|54.1058.30 65.75 62.30 6.0.0051.05 49.40,47.55
19 42.45146.30 42.35 51.2055.65 58.55 61.25 62.95 60.85 52.60 45.1048.45

20 43.6045.80 43.5053.95 53.6059.95 59.05 62.8059.55 54.95 45.5546.25

21  44  65 43.30 42.80 53.35|58.1057.95  61.45  62.00 61.70.54.90 4600 42.50

                                                                                l
22 44.55:44.75 42.20,49.75|62.6558.55 62-85 59.80 60.85 5515 50.05 46.70

23 47.3046.90 43. 10 5 1.4066.65|56.55|fi3.30 58.20 59.55 54.40|47.2047.85
24 46.5048.60 44.50 49.90I65.30l57.00 62.40 57401859.60 50.80 45.50 44.65

23 46.5545.90 42.9048.45 61.2557.90 62.1057.85 58.3051.95 42.7545.05

26 46.85 47.35 41.7049.4056.60 56.65 60.55.57.65 58.20 49.40 42.2046.05

27 45.8048.00 451052.25 57.45 58.45 61.1056.95 57.65 52.65 46.4045.35

28 47.8548.85 1615 5215 59.20 57.25 65.1559.45 57.85 55.85 48.7045.60

29 42.50   45.70 50.20 57.45 59.85 65.5o!60.30 58.1055.90|48.2551.70

    44.20  44.45 50.95 61.35 60.75,66.15 59.20 56.75 55.25I49.05'53.35

31 44.75   45.70  60.95 .. 63.70 58.55                      5400 ... 5210

    Means 45.36 46.67 45.0248.96|57.7058.15,62.30 6110 58.94 54.63J481747.64
Mean temp, of 1833 and 1834 by this table, from 17520 observations, 52.85.
ON THE HOURLY OBSERVATIONS OF THE THERMOMETER. 191

Table VI. Showing the Mean Temperature of each Hour for

      each Month of 1833 and 1834, and for the Two Years.

Hour. Jan.  Mar. april. Hay. June. July. Aug. S<r>l. Oct.                             Mean xm.
                                                                                     nual tewp.

                                                                                        ·teach
                                                                                         hour.

3 ...   11.53 45.85 42.25 44.70 51.9054.03 57.50 56.30S5.35 51.5346.18 46.58         49.72
        1113 45i.3041 ·88 44.40 5 1.40 53.78 57.13 55.66 5500 51.2845.85 46.50       49.39
        44.20 44.70 41.75 44.05 5115 53.58 56.83 55 4054 85 51.05 46.00 46.45        4916
                                                                                     49.03
4 ...   44.18 44.80 41.45 43.75 5105 53.55 56.65 55.05 54.58 50.93 45.93 46.50       49.00
5 ...   43 95 44.50 41.20 43.705115 53.98 57.08 54.95 54.60 50.65 45.88 46.50        49.65
6 ...   43.60 44.50 41.28)44.25 52.55 55.83 58.65 56.25 55.33 51.30 45.73 46.58
                                                                                     50.98
 7 ...  43.75 44.55 4205 46.38 55.70 58.00 61.38 58.55 56:55 52 05 46. 2046.70       52.63
 8 ...  44.20 44.Wt fi.7;, l!Ml>.-.K 45 59.78 63.40 61.60 58.63.. I 68 46.90 47.05   54.33
 9 ...                                                                               55.76
10 ...  44.98 46.20 45.9051.60 60.35 61.03 64.83 l64.30|60 80 56.23 48.33 47.45      56.84
11 ...  45.85 47 7047 85 53106175 61.40 66.05:65.95 62.85 58.45 49.70 48.55          57.67
12 ...  46.83 49.15 48.75 54.33 63.00 62.08 67.15:66.75 63.95 5«J 7850. 95 49.40

        47.55 50.15 49.8055:3064.05 62.40 67.7567.06 65.08 60.33 52.10 50.50

1 P.M. 47.65 50.35 50.30 55.9064.55         75 68    67.50 65.40 60.50152.45 [50.70  58.00
2 ... 4718 49.90 49.68 55.55 64.55                   67.50 65106000 52.9050.05       57.68
3 ... 46 95 49.50 4905 54.80 63.75          -63 67.  67.05 64.0858.95 51.1849.50     57.04
4 ... 46.55 48.55 48' 3053 45,62.94         1567     6610 62.70!57.65 50.0048.78     5612
5 ... 45.98 47.40 47.43 52.13 61.85         6166     65.00 til 1356.23 48.8047-73    55.02
6 ... 45.55 47.05 46.20|50 5059.95         9065      63.5059.65 54.93 48.33 47.40    53.94

                                           -85 M

7 ...   45.45 46.65 44.98 48.65|58.08      63 63.88 61.75 58.25 53.95 48.3047.23     52.90
8 ...                                      30|61.20 60.20 57.2853.53 47.85 47-13     52.05
9 ...   T44.90 46.45 44.40 47.7.". :.««;.  38 59.80 5905 56.80 5305 47.40 47-05      51.45
                                           75 59.00 58. 10 56.08 52.60 4705 47.03    50.85
        44.90 46.35 431.8347 1055.45       30 58.38 57.55 55.73 5208 46.63 46.88     50.54
                                           73 57.70 56.80155.55 51.98 4650 46.75     50.11
10 ... 44.85 46.20 43.45 4600 5410

11 ... 44.78 46.25 42.95 45.55 53.55

12 ... 44.60 46.15 42.55 45.00 52.95

Means 45.30 46.7945.04 49.06 57.53 58.16 62.20 61.16,58.97 54.69 48:1947.72 52.90

Mean temp, of 1833 and 1834 by this table, from 17520 observations, 52.90..
192 FIFTH REPORT -- 1835.

Table VII. Showing the Mean Hourly Temperature for each

     of the Seasons, viz. Spring, Summer, Autumn, and Winter,
     for the Years 1833 and 1834.

  Hour.    Spring.  Summer.  Autumn.  Winter.

   1 a.M.   46.28   55.94     51.02    45.65
  2 ...     45.89   55.92     50.74    45.37
  3 ...     45.65   55.27     50.63    45.11
  4 ...     45.41   55.07    50.48     45.16
  5 ...     45.35   55.33     50.35    44.98
  6 ...     46.02   56.89    50.78    44.89

  7 ...    48.04    59.31    51.60    45.00
  8 ...    50.53    61.59    5307     45.43
  9 ...    52.61    63.38    5512     46.21
10 ...     54.23    64.46    57.00    47.36
11 ...     55.36    65.32    58.22    48.46
12 ...     56.38    65.73    59.17    49.40

  1 r.M.   56.91    66.09    59.54    49.56
  2 ...    56.59    66.01             49.04
  3 ...    55.86    65.60    5910     48.65
 4 ...     54.89    64.88    5807     47.96
  5 ...    53.80    63.87    56.78    4703
  6 ...    52.21    62.59    55.38    46.66
                             54.30
 7 ...     50.57    61.08             46.44
  8 ...    49.60    59.56    53.46    4616
 9 ...     48.79    58.41    52.88    4610
10 ...     47.85    57.61    52.41    46.02
11 ...     47.35    5707     51.91    45.93
13 ...     46.83    56.41    51.48    45.83
                             51.34
Means      50.55                      46.55
                    60.55    53.95

Mean temp, of the two years by this tabic, from 17520 observations, 52.90.
  ON THE HOURLY OBSERVATIONS OF THE THERMOMETER. 193

Table VIII. Showing the Mean Hourly Temperature for the

   Six Summer Months^ from April to September inclusive, and
   for the Six Winter Months, from October to March inclu
   sive, in the Years 1833 and 1834.

        Hours.   Summer Month». Winter Months.

        1 a.M.   53.29   4615                   *
        2 ...    5289    45.88
        3 ...    52.63   45.69
        4 ...    52.43   45.63
        5 ...    52.57   45.45
        6 ...    53.52   45.49

        7 ...    56.08   45.88
        8 ...    58.27   46.78
        9 ...    60.48   48.18
       10 ...    61.85   49.68
       11 ...    02.87   50.81
       12 ...    63.60   51.73

         1 P.M.  64.02   51.99
                 63.81   51.49
        2 ...    63.23   50.84
        3 ...    62.28   49.96
        4 ...    6112    48.92
         5 ...   59.65   48.24
         6 ...
                 5803    47.77
         7 ...   56.72   47.37
         8 ...   55.76   4713
         9 ...   54.85   46.86
       10 ...    54.08   46.59
       11 ...    53.80   46.42
       12 ...
                 57.826  47.955
       Means

Mean temp, of the two years by this table, from 17520 observations, 52.89.

1835.
    194 FIFTH REPORT 1835.

       The hourly observations for 1833 and 1834 having been thus
    discussed, and the mean results disposed as in the eight pre
    ceding tables, we may now proceed to consider the general re
    sults deducible from them.

    Periods of Maximum and Minimum of Temperature ; Mean
       Temperature of the four Seasons of Summer and Winter,
       and of the whole Year.

                                                     1833.

    Maximum 80, took place July 30, at 2 p.m.
    Minimum 28, occurred March 13, at 5, 6, 7 a.m.
    Mean temperature of 10 days about the summer                          solstice,   viz. from \     ,».,,,
    /June 15 to June 25
    \jMean temperature of 10 days about the winter solstice, viz. from
        December 15 to December 25                                                                    xn.nn

    Mean temperature of the four r Winter, viz. Jan., Feb., Dec                                       46.

    Jseasons,                                  Spring,        viz. March, April, May              ...49.40
                                               Summer,        viz. June, July, August             ...59.52
    tions by
     from'         I2I1I9.,0   observa-  1
    Table                     including

    3 months each                           \_ Autumn, viz. Sept, Oct., Nov                           53.50

    Mean temperature of winter r Winter, viz. Jan., Feb., March, "1                                    47.9-
    J-"Jand summer, from 4380 ob-                                                                     ' Ke.qn
                                                                      Oct., Nov., Dec. .
    servations by Table IV., in- 1 Summer, viz. April, May, June, 1                                    °z
    J"eluding 6 months each
                                                                      July, Aug., Sept. .
    \ .,.,Mean temperature of the whole year, from 8760 observations byL
     II / liTables I. and
    Mean temperature of October, being the nearest to that of the year ... 54.50
    Extreme range of temperature
    Mean range of temperature                                                                         52.
                                                                                                        9.63

                                               1834.

    &T2.17! JMaximum 80, occurred July 17, at 4 p.m.              *'  '·  I6'  7 aM"
    Minimum 32,' occurred     {I March         26,  at  52*,  3,      5,       a.m.
                                                                  4,

    Mean temperature

     /June 15 to June
                   of 10       days      about      the summer            solstice,   viz. from "1 0.a8-/0J
                   25
    .,..Mean temperature of 10 days about

     JDecember 15 to December 25
                                                    the winter solstice,              viz. from 1 'w'"b

    Mean temperature of the four r Winter, viz. Jan., Feb., Dec                                       47.
    Jseasons,
                                               Spring,        viz. March, April, May              ...51.76
    tions, by                                  Summer,        viz. June, July, August             ... 61.43
    frToamble21I9II0.,        observa-   1
                               includ-

    ing 3 months each                    [ Autumn, viz. Sept., Oct., Nov                              54.20
    .}'"Mean temperature of winter r Winter, viz. Jan., Feb., March, "1                               ._ ,r
    and summer, from 4380 ob- I                                       Oct., Nov., Dec.
    servations, by Table IV.,
                               in-
    Jeluding 6 months each
                                         |I    Summer,        viz.    April,    May,  June,    1  "'  50.73
                                                                      July,    Aug.,  Sept. .
    Mean temperature of the whole              year, from 8760 observations, by "1                    5,3_.<,,5_6
    III.Tables  and IV
                                                                                                  }
    Mean temperature of October, being the nearest to that of the year . . . 54.700
    Extreme range of temperature
    Mean range of temperature                                                                         48.

                                                        ,                                             10.18

~\
ON THE HOURLY OBSERVATIONS OF THE THERMOMETER. 19.,

                          1833 and 1834.

Mean maximum                                                                  80'

Mean minimum                                                                  30-

Mean temperature of 10 days about the summer solstice                         58-185
Mean temperature of 10 days about the winter solstice                         46-540
Mean temperature of the four r Winter, viz. Jan., Feb., Dec                   46-57
Jtions, by Table VII.,

ing 3 months each
seasons, from 4880 observa- Spring, viz. March, April, May ...50-55
              includ-                             viz. June,   July,
                                      |  Summer,  viz. Sept.,  Oct.,  August  ... 60-50
                                      [  Autumn,                      Nov         53'93
\Mean temperature of winter f Winter,
                                                  viz. Jan., Feb., March,
                                                        Oct., Nov., Dec. .
J Jand summer,                                                                ·" *47rjaq:u>t:

servations, by
              frToamble876V0IIoIb.,-     Summer,  viz. April, May, June, 1    1-7. oor
                                                        July, Aug., Sept.,
...I J"'including 6 months each       |

Mean temperature

 VII /Table
              of the two years, from 1 7,520 observations,                  by "I °rn2'9n0n

Mean temperature of October, the nearest to the mean of the two years . . 54·60
Extreme range from the mean of the two years
                                                                              50"

Mean range from the mean of the two years                                     9871

              Daily Progression of Temperature.

The daily temperature for each hour for each of the years
1833 and 1834, together with the mean of the two years, is
projected under the form  of                      in Plate VI., from
bers in the last columns  of             curves   II., IV., and VI.         the num
                                         Tables                             The dot

ted curved lines represent the progress of the daily temperature
at Leith.
Each point of the mean curve is the result of 730 observa
tions, and each point of the curves for the separate years the
result of 365 observations. From these it appears that the
temperature is lowest at 5 a.m., after which it steadily increases
until 1 p.m., when it again descends to the minimum. The pe
riod of ascent being eight hours, and that of the descent sixteen
hours, which numbers are in the ratio of 1 : 2. Taking the ra
pidity with which the temperature increases or decreases be
tween the points of maximum and minimum, through a given
number of degrees, as inversely proportional to the times, we
may conclude, in neglecting the intermediate changes, that upon
the whole the heat of the day advances in this case with twice
the rapidity of the cold of the night. The general agreement
between the curves of the two years and the mean is very strik

ing, and shows a close approximation in the observations to the
true form of the daily curve. On comparing these results with
                         Leith Fort for           the years 1824 and 1825,
the  hourly register at
we   observe, as shown    by the dotted            curved lines in Plate I.,

that the maximum does not take place at Leith until two hours
after it occurs at Plymouth, whilst the minimum occurs at
nearly the same hour. The curves also are, as might be antici
                                         o2
196 FIFTH REPORT-- 1835.

pated, more flattened as we advance northward, and lower in

the scale.

The ascending motion in the Leith curves is 9 hours 40 mi
nutes, and the descending motion 14 hours 20 minutes, which
are to each other in the ratio of 2 : 3 nearly. The heat of the
day in this case advances one third more rapidly than the cold
of the night, but not so rapidly, as at Plymouth, in the propor
tion of 4 : 3.

   The form of the daily  curves  for the different  months and the
four seasons is seen in   Plates
                                  VII. and VIII.     VThIIe.y are pro
                   mean results in Tables VI. and
jected from   the                                    distinct varieties
                   the curves evidently show three
   In Plate  VII.
of temperature, as indicated by a general coincidence in the
blue, red, yellow, and black lines, constituting the curves of
spring, summer, autumn, and winter. These are more com

pletely reduced in PlateVIII.,in which we immediately distinguish
the sharp, full curve of spring ; the collapsing and less sharp
ened curve of autumn ; the full, broad, rounded curve of sum

mer; and the low, flattened curve of winter. The autumnal

curve evidently approaches more nearly to the curve of winter :
its sides, instead of presenting a full appearance, rather tend to
fall in, and assimilate with, the form of the winter curve ; this
is especially evident in the afternoon branch. The curve of
spring, on the contrary, has its branches fuller and more rounded,
and evidently approaches in general character the curve of sum
                              in                      form of the
mer.     These peculiarities  in  the general        and are well  respective
curves   are also observable                                       marked in
                                  Plate VII.
the curves of April and October ; hence it seems more natural
to class April with the summer months, and October with the
winter. The respective differences and agreements in the curves
of these months, which have been considered by many meteoro
logists as having a mean temperature equal to that of the whole
year, are not unworthy of notice : they both approach the form
and character of the annual curve, and to a certain extent re

semble each other; they differ, however, greatly in other re
spects. The general mean of October is above that of April,
but the range of temperature is less. The mornings and even
ings of April are much colder than those of October, which are
comparatively warm, and far above the mean temperature of the
year. April, as observed at Leith, unites the low temperature
of winter with the high range of summer; whilst October
unites the high temperature of summer with the low range of
winter.      TPhlaetegreVaItI.reagsualalsroitythoef  the curves of these months, as
shown    in                                          regularity of the mean curves
observable in Plate IX. are very
                                                     striking and remarkable.
              A.M   >     i rM  :..
              1!                     i>  7-      H  a  i0;     11 12 1        2  31                5»     r                i90  |2
                                     -;          I  I          .i             i  i                     .
                            ·j                                 ' ··           ·  it                                         J\               -
                                '    ·                                                             r                                         -
                                           ?                                                                                                n
                                                                                                                                            6
                                                                                                   |\

              -             - _ H· t ·-
                                     . . , ; ; t. . i . ,
m\            .  -
ew-

6»l

1.         i           ,..                             /.'/j a v.. -nS /m/ksr "»/ r.i /-/:- -\                                            :2. '··ill
SI                        /·                  /                                  7' . · /,    \                                                  U
62                            /                                                                                                                  i7
O1                                                                                                        \                                      jr.
Bt>                                                                                                                                              VJ
...'.>
                                                                                                                                                 iO
    hpj nwr            ·" »:.                       '/                                                                                           in
                                                    in/ t>tSi, ·/>>intuimi />·/·r- Oiu.f                                                         ir
u                                                                                           -                                                    io
                                                                                                i
H                                                                                                                                                iI
                       ·" -^L_                      /}···.... .,1                                                                                ii
iB                                                                ,/,
                                                                      /
w Nj.n K
                                                                           -
u                                                                 S/uimt T,n>f,l>ltlll f-

I1                     i)

                          /i f
                                                          /I.
                                         l.in, .it' .jff.in Wrftfr 7t"/ti/'cr.itn                                          ---

.M

3$ u


                                                                                                                                            ii

              \                                                                                                            n u iil il |l
                  M

                          A
                                4
                                      5
                                             ii
                                                   7
                                                         H
                                                                ii
                                                                            11
                                                                                         !' 1
                                                                                               2
                                                                                                     S
                                                                                                            i
                                                                                                                  &
                                                                                                                        8
                                                                                                              ;
                                                       lO 12
                                                                              M
                                     /B2* report of thr lirit.L -.>-ifrrthc arh'tiiurmtTtt of
                                                                                     VotlTp
                         .'>
                                     7
                                           B
                                                  '.1
                                                                          1
                                                                                 2
                                                                                       A

                                                       i

                                                                                                 A >-
                                                                                                          6
                                                                                                                7
                                                                                                                       1
           vM                ti                         i'M                                                                   :1 1i1 11 iS
        12A l                          in 11 12                                                                                                          .

71'
71
Til
iW
>'.fi
87
il8

i.l

ii2                                            k

8i                                                \

iai

:.6                                                      -_ "-

58 ...a                      -.                                               >
                                     //«'- i,/ .t/,'ti/ir'rSurknur,~jh>v rsa N
.17                                /1                                            ..
                                        /. \j
\so                                                                              \\

:>.'>                                                                                 \\
5i
:.;'. Nun                    1
:--·
               p4.--        .HJ.Wj/               in Terninnahtrr'                                                            .4n
                         L18                                                                                                  s
                                               i

.··1           -                                                    \.                                                        7~~~.
                                                                                                              10""H^^s. 1
50                 ?-H                         ,«tw' fi'vd·/- kny>/raturt
       -                             /                                                                                        ~--

1s                                                          ,1/
                                                                                                             v
..                       Y~            y /v»,
                                     y
     \v,,,,,,

13 ^

-
                                                                                                                          "·

.Til                                                                                                           - . .JL
IV!                                                                                                                              i"
.17                                                                                                                             31
38
:i:»                                                                                                                              .1
.11
                                                                                      u>" ii~
        AM
                                                  "M

                                                                               J.W. L>>nn. .vVi
          1           .
                2
                      .1
                                               :
                                                      «
                                                           :
                                                         ii
                                                               i\
                                                                              i·
                                                                                     i
                                                                                                 3-
                                                                                                        ·i
                                                                                                              f
                                                                                                                    t
                                                                                                                           7
                                                                                                                                 1!
                                                                                                                                       1
                                                                                                                                                                s5
                                                                                                                                                 :J
ON THE HOURLY OBSERVATIONS OF THE THERMOMETER. 197

   In  tPhlaettewIoXc.oalurempnrsojeocfteTdabtlheeVmIeIaI.n  summer and winter curves,
                                                              These are extremely regu
from

lar, more especially the former : each point of each curve is the
mean of 365 observations. The mean annual curve is also shown
between these as projected from the last column of Table VI.
The summer curve descends regularly from midnight until 4
a.m., when the greatest cold occurs ; it then ascends with ex
traordinary rapidity and regularity until 1 p.m., after which it
descends with great regularity, but with less rapidity, to its
minimum ; the total mean range being about 1 1 degrees and a
half. The period of the ascent is nine hours, and the descent
fifteen hours, which numbers are to each other as 3 : 5. The heat
of the day in
than the cold   summer, therefore,         increases            at Plymouth faster
               of the night in the         ratio of 5
                                                                : 3. It is interest
ing to observe the difference between this and the summer curve
at Leith, which rises less rapidly, and somewhat less regularly,
until 3 p.m., after which it finally descends with rapidity to the
minimum ; the total mean range being about 8-5°. The period
of its ascent is eleven hours, and the descent thirteen hours ;
hence the heat of the day increases in summer at Leith more
rapidly upon the whole than the cold of the night in the ratio
of 13 : 11, being less than the rate of increase at Plymouth by
nearly one fourth.
The winter curve for Plymouth descends regularly from mid
night until 6 a.m., at which time the cold is greatest : from
this time it rises until 1 p.m., as before, the period of its ascent
being seven hours, and that of its descent seventeen hours :
hence we may conclude, in neglecting the intermediate grada
tions as before, that upon the whole the heat of the day ad
vances in winter at Plymouth more rapidly than the cold of the
night   in the ratio of 17 : 7, or as 5                                            about £
times   more rapidly than in summer.                         :  3 nearly, being  curve for

                                                                In the winter

Leith there is a gentle rise of temperature after midnight, which
is not                                        On comparing those curves           in
Plate   IXap. pwariethnt thaet  Plymouth.  curves of Sir David Brewster          for
                                analogous
Leith as shown by the dotted lines, we find some interesting
points of difference. The afternoon branches of the Leith curves,
for example, especially those of summer, as also the mean curve,
are more full and protrusive than the similar curves for Plymouth.

In the individual curves for Leith which compose the winter
group, and from which the dotted yellow and blue lines in

Plate IX. are deduced, there is a rise of temperature after mid
night, and then a subsequent fall ; this, however, does not seem
ever to occur at Plymouth, nor does it occur in the summer curves
for Leith.
198 FIFTH REPORT -- 1835.

On the Perioils of Time at which the Ammal Daily and other
         Curves cross the line of Mean Temperature.

If we consider the march of temperature through the day, it
is obvious that the temperature of certain periods is the same as
that of the mean temperature of the whole twenty-four hours ;
and since the thermometer increases and decreases regularly
once in each day, we may infer that the periods of mean tem
perature are generally two, one of them being in some point of
the increase at morning, the other at some point of the decrease
at evening. We may extend this consideration in a similar

way to other periods greater than a day ; such as a month,

three months, six months, or a whole year. And hence, if a
line of  VmIe.,anVIteIIm:,peIXra.t,ur&ec.b,eitdirsaewvnidefonrt  the respective curves in
Plates                                                           that each of these curves
will cross that line twice in the course of their progress. We
shall first, by references to the preceding tables and plates, endea
vour to determine the particular hours, the mean temperature of
which, as deduced by observation through the whole year, is
equal to the mean temperature of the whole twenty-four hours,
as deduced from similar observations.

   The determination of the two times of the day at which the
mean temperature happens, is an object of great interest in the
science of meteorology ; it enables an observer to arrive at the
mean temperature of any given place by two observations, or
even one, each day. These critical times, however*, may vary
materially, both with the latitude and height above the sea :
hence the necessity of ascertaining by extensive observation the
laws of this variation.

  It appears from Table VII. that the mean temperature of

Plymouth, for the whole year, is 52'90 ; we may take this as
the average mean temperature of twenty-four hours, as shown

in the last column of Table VI. Now the critical times in the

twwile|,ntfyro-fmouTr abhloeusrsII.a,t  which this mean temperature                happens,

                                        IV., and VI., be as follow :

                                        Table IX.

         Years.                         Times of Morning         Times of Evening
                                        Mean Temperature. Mean Temperature.

                    1833.               hm                       hm
                    1834.               7 59                     7 ;i
                                        8 13                     6 58
         Mean by Table VI.                                       7
                                        8C
                                                                 7
                                        89

         · Edinburgh Phil. Tram. vol. x. p. 379.
ON THE HOURLY OBSERVATIONS OF THE THERMOMETER. 199

We observe here a considerable approximation to the mean
in the  results of each
mean    daily curve, as      year, and   may therefore                  conclude that       the
                              exhibited  by the yellow                  line in Plate
                                                                                            VI.
will cross the line of mean temperature about 8h 9TM a.m. and
7h p.m., the interval being 10h SI"".
   Although these critical times may be greatly influenced by

latitude, &c, yet the differences in the interval which elapses
Ibetween the morning and evening mean at different places seems
comparatively inconsiderable.                           have arranged in the following
table the times, &c., of mean temperature for a few places at
which these elements have been determined, and by which it will
be perceived that the interval amounts nearly to eleven hours.

                             Table X.

        Place.        9 Longitude.                             Time of  Time of   Interval
                                                               Morning  Evening   between
                      a lis*                                    Mean.             Morning
                                                                         Mean.   and Even.
                                                                                 ing Mean.

Leith                 55-56                      feet.  feet.  It tn    hm        hm
                                                        600    9 13     8 27     11 14
Plymouth ... 50-21           313 W. 25
                             4-6 60                     400    89       7        10 51
                             11-55 E.
                      45-36                                    8 41     7 52     11 11

It is to be observed, that of these places the comparison be
tween Plymouth and Leith is the most accurate, since the ob
servations are in each case compared with the mean temperature
of the twenty-four hours, and not with a mean temperature ob
tained in a more general way.
The hours of mean temperature which we have been just con
sidering being deduced from the mean results of the
do not consequently apply to a less period of time.                              wIthomleayyenaort,,
therefore, be unnecessary to determine the critical hours for
other periods of time less than a year. The principal of these
are given in the three following tables.

Tablb XI, --Showing the Hours of Morning and Evening when
  theMean Monthly Temperature occurs, as deduced by TableVI.

Mean

oMf M18l3.3 Jan. Feb. Mar. April. May. June. July. Aug. Sept Oct. Not. Dec.

A.M.    hm      hm    hm     h m h m h ln               hm     hm       hm hm hm hm
P.M.    9 22    9 23  8 36   7 52 7 39 7 50             7 21   7 51     8 9 8 23 8 54 9 14
        7 16    6 39         6 47 7 25 7 21                             6 28 6 15 7 20 5 20
                      6 58                              7 25   7 23
200 FIFTH REPORT -- 1835.

Table XII. -- Showing the Hours of Morning and Evening when
     Mean    Tienmepaecrahtusreeasoonf,Sapsrindegd, uScuemd mbeyr,TaAbulteuVmInI,.       Win
the  occurs                                                                         and
ter

         Mean of    Spring.        Summer.  Autumn.     Winter.
     1833and 1834.
                    h in           hm       hm          h in
        A.M.        81             7 33     8 26        9 18
         P.M.       71             7 21     6 25        6 3d

Table XIII.--Showing the Hours of the Morning and Even
ing when the Mean                           byofTaSbumlemVeIrII.and  Winter
curs in each season,  Temperature                                                        oc
                      as deduced

                        Mean of    Summer.     Winter.
                    1834and 1834.
                                   hm          h mi
                       A.M.         7 48       8 50
                        P.M.        79         6 37

Relation of the Mean Temperature of each Hour, and each
similar pair of Hours, to the Mean Annual Temperature,
or Mean Temperature          of    the  whole  Twenty-four           Hours, as

deduced by Table VI.

It appears from the Hourly Registers at Plymouth and at
Leith, that any number of daily observations of the thermome
ter seldom give a correct mean result without corresponding
observations at night. The deviation with three observations in
the day, is nearly three times as great as that arising from only
two observations taken at any similar pair of hours. We gain,
therefore, very little by multiplying daily thermometric obser
vations without reference to some general principle of guidance.
Hence the importance of determining, by experiment in differ
ent places, the relation between the mean temperature of the
twenty-four hours and that of any single hour, or any similar

pair of hours. In the following table will be found the mean
temperature of each hour for the years 1833 and 1834, with the
deviations of each  from the mean of the whole                                      or of the
twenty-four hours,                                        year,                     also that
                    as deduced by Tables II. and
                                                        IV., as

of the mean temperature and        deviations of        each  hour for the
two years together, as deduced
                                   by Table VI.
               ON THE HOURLY OBSERVATIONS OF THE THERMOMETER. 201

             Table XIV.--Showing the relation between the Mean Tempe

                rature of each hour and that of the whole day.

               Hours.                    . 1 3 4 5 6 | 7 8 9 10 11 12

                     ir Temp.            48.80 48.52 48.34 48.14 48.14 48.85 50.18 52.14 53.67 5514 56.15 56.95
                                                                                                         I
             ·J a.M.
             > ·a»                Deviation. -3.33 -3.61 -379 -399 -3.99 -3.28!-l.05 +0.01 1.54 3.01 4.02 +<!·«
3s rTemp.                                                                   +++
                    I^ r I J r 1 I       57.15 56'86 16.22 55.47 54.32 53.20 52.16 51.38 50.70 50.00 49.65 49.17t,
       P.M.                                                                            +
                                                     +                                            ++
                                                             1
                                                                        ||
             e Deviation +5.02 +4.72 4.09 +3.34 2.19' + l.07 +0.03 -0.75 -1.43 -2.13 -2.48 -2.96+

        A.M.                      Temp.  50.61 50.26 49.98 49D3 49.88 50.45 5178 53.29 54.99 56.39 5753 58.39

-°                                Deviation -303 -3.41 -3.69 -3.74 -379 -3.22 -1.89 -0.38 1.32 +2.72 3.86 +472

7.°                               Temp.  58.85 58.44 57.86 5678 5572 54.69 53.64 52.72 52.21 51.64 51.27 50.95

         P.M.                       Deviation +5.18 +477 +4.19J+3.11 +2.05 1.02 -0.03 -0.95 -1.46 -2.03 -2.40 -272+

  n

 «                   rTemp.               4972 49.30 49.16 49.03 49.00 49.65 50.98 52.63 54·33 5576 66.84 57.67
             A.M.                        -318 -3.51 -374 -3.87 -3.90 -3.25 -1.92 -0.27 1.43 +2.86 +3.94 +477
~>.
                         Deviation
             1 r Ii
£3                                Temp.  58.00 57.68 57.04 56.12 55.02 53.04 52.901 52.05 51.45 50.85 50.54 50.11
*r1 P.M.
                                  Deviation +5.10 +478 +4.14 +3.22 +212 1.04 +0.00-0.85 -1.46 -205 -2.36 -3.79
                                                             +

             We perceive by this Table that the mean annual temperature of
             any hour in the day never differs more than about from the mean
             annual temperature of the twenty-fourhours. Sir David Brewster 5°

             found the difference at Leith much less, viz. about 3° only. He
             also observed that of the two years 1824 and 1825, the devia

             tions were uniformly greater in the warmer year, that is, in
             1825, the mean temperature of which exceeded that of 1824
             by more than 2°. A similar result, however,
                                                                            is  not apparent

             at Plymouth, the deviations being less in the warmer year, that
             is, in 1834, the mean temperature of which exceeded that of
             1825 by about degree and half: future observations may
             probably lead to some explanation of the cause of this anomaly.
             9The mean temperature for Plymouth may be, however, deducedif
                       a
                                                          a
                                ;
                                           9a
             from register containing only one observation in the day, by
             applying, according to its sign, the correction given in the
             preceding table. Thus the observed mean temperature for
             a.m. as deduced by the observations through the whole year,
             was 54'33 then the mean temperature of the whole twenty-
             four hours for the year would be 54·33-- 1·43, since the mean
             temperature of a.m. exceeds the mean temperature of the
             twenty-four hours by T43 that in applying the respectiveis,
                                                  ;

             corrections we reverse the signs.
02 FIFTH REPORT-- 1835.

Table XV. -- Showing the relation of the Mean Temperature
   of every similar Pair of Hours to that of the whole day, or

   Meau Annual Temperature.

Pair of      12 3                 456                  7 8 1 10 11 12
Hours.

Mean Temp. 52.97 52.69 52.28 51.80 51.23 51.03 51.17 5176 52.18 52.57 52.90 53.06
| Deviation
             +0.81 +0.56 +0.15 -0.33 -0.90 -110 -0.96 -0.37 -0.05 +044 +0.77 +0.93

      Mean Temp. 5474 54.35 53.02 53.35 52.80 52.57 52.70 53.00 53.60 54.01 54.401 54.6/
1 Deviation +1.07 +0.68 + 0.25 -0.32 -0.87 -1.20 -0.97 -0.67 -0.07 +0.34 +073+1.00

Mean Temp.   53.86  53.53  53.10          |     51.79  51.94  52'34  52.88  53.30 53'69  53.89
                                  52.57i 52.01

1 Deviation  +0.96+0.63 +0.20 -0.33 -0.89 -111 -096 -0.66 -0.02 +0.40 +079 + 0.9!1

                                                        |

It appears by this table --
1st, That the deviation of any similar pair of hours from the
temperature of the whole twenty-four or mean annual tempera
ture does not greatly exceed one degree of Fahrenheit :
2ndly, That the mean temperature of the pairs of hours from
10h to 3h inclusive exceeds the mean annual temperature, or mean
temperature of the whole twenty-four ; and the mean tempera
ture of the pairs of hours from 3h to 1011 exclusive is less than
the mean temperature of the whole twenty-four :
3rdly, That the mean temperature of 9" and 9h does not greatly
differ from the mean annual temperature or mean temperature
of the twenty- four hours.
We may infer from these results that the mean temperature of

Plymouth may be very nearly determined by two observations
in the day taken throughout the year at 9 a. m. and at 9 p. m ;
or by observations at any other similar pair of hours, provided
we apply the correction for deviation as given in the preceding
TabItlemXayV.noatccboerduinngwotrothiyts
                                           sign.       that   the hours     of 9h  and 9h
                                          of remark,

are nearly those which give the mean temperature of the day at
Paris. At Leith, the mean temperature of 4h and 4h approaches
nearest the mean, being those nearest the hours of the maximuu
and minimum.
        i a sS a 3 Sa3S 9 $ q a                                                                                       *
                                                                                                                  .4
                                                                                                                      ig
 -1P5
                                                                                                                      --
/a
                                                                         /                                            H
   aJ                                                                                                                 =

                                 //                                                                                   s

                                                                                              /                       -

                   //                                                                                                 X

    CO                                                                                                                V
                                                                                                                      .3
          /w
                                                                                                                      -
/<0

  -

i--       /                                                                                                           n

        ~^                                                                                                            ---·

           \\      «3                                                                                                 -
                   ft.
                                                                                                                      =

               ^\

CO 9                                                                                                                  X

X5; K\                                                                                                                °^

-\.fl                                         .i
     a  5  I-                              o       5E9
               « > $ a2 a S
ON THE HOURLY OBSERVATIONS OF THE THERMOMETER. 203

Form of the four different branches observable in the mean
                                 annual daily curve.

The preceding investigations furnish us with the following
elements of the mean annual curve of the 24 hours.
Mean temperature of the 24 hours by Table VI
                                                    52·90
Mean minimum                                        49

Mean maximum                                        58

Difference between max. and min                     9

Difference between max. and mean temp               6·9 +
Difference between min. and mean temp               3'9 --

                                                    lt m

Time of minimum temperature                         5 0 a.m.
                                                    8 9 p.m.
Time of morning mean temperature
Interval between min. and morning mean
                                                    39

Time of maximum temperature                         1 0 p.m.

Interval between the morning mean and following max. 4 51
Time of evening mean temperature                    70
....Interval between the max. and evening mean
                                                     60
Interval between the morning and evening mean       1051
Interval between the evening mean and following min. .10 0
Interval between the min. and following max
                                                    80

Interval between the max. and following min         16 0

   The mean annual curve of the 24 hours, beginning and ending

with the point of minimum temperature is projected in Plate X.
It may be divided into the four following branches, C C being
the line of mean temperature :

   1 . The morning branch A B ascending from the minimum to
the line of mean temperature, and including an interval of 8* 9m ;
   2. The noon branch B D ascending from the mean tempera
DEture line to the maximum, and including an interval of 4h 51m ;
3. The afternoon branch      descending from the maximum

to the line of mean temperature, and including an interval of 6h ;

   4. The night branch E A descending from the line of mean
temperature to the minimum, and including an interval of 10h.
On examining these four branches of the mean annual curve of
the 24 hours at Leith, we may observe in them a somewhat

Iclose approximation to the parabola, on which account
have been led to calculate the mean annual hourly tempera
ture for Plymouth, on the supposition that they may be
represented   by  the    abscissae of parabolas.   TCakAin,gGDC ,C    in
             the  line  of mean temperature, then                   and
Plate X. as
their parallels maybe considered as the abscissae of the respec

tive curvilinear branches A B, B D, &c. above mentioned. The
204 FIFTH REPORT -- 1835.

abscissa referred to the line C C as the general line of the or-
EgdinfCoartemasnaykreetipmurepesepthnettakmteheneanodnetvteihamattipoelnirnsaet.uorfeTthhleeintoeermdoipnfeart2ea4sturhCeoBuor,sfB, aGnoyr,Gp1o4Ei4n,0t
minutes. One degree of temperature in the projection is con
vertible into 60 minutes, being equal to an hour of time. We
may hence readily obtain the abscissae in terms of the ordinates
or Irtecisipnrootcatlhlye,rebfoyremderifefliycucltonfvreormtingthedekgnreoewsninetoqutaimtioen. to the
parabola, or y- = An x, to calculate the temperature of any point
q which should arise at any point of time p, on the supposi
tion that the four curvilinear branches are semi -parabolas, and
so compare the observed temperatures with those of calculation.
For this purpose the following formulae may be employed, which
are easily arrived at.
Let T = the temp, for any point q at                                     any time p ; m =
min. = 49°; M =                   max. =                    y   =                                    the
line CC = variable                in time.          58° ;           any  ordinate taken on           the

Then for the morning branch                         A B we have T = »» +           AC x              ' ' v*
                                                                                     (CB)'
                                                                         T = M -- PG xy!.
for the noon branch BD                                                             (BG)2
for the afternoon branch D E                                                       DGx/.
for the night branch E A                                                 T= M  --
                                                                         T=m   +   A- (CG, E,x), *.y. \

By these formula? the curvilinear branches A B, BD, of the

· These formulae, as shown by Sir David Brewster in his investigation of the
Lcith observations, are deducible in the following way :
IfTaking one of the branches, as B D, Plate X. we have by the property of
the parabola G D x (B G)*.              therefore q be any point of temperature at any
given point of time p, then in drawing/) q and n q
        DO:D.::(OB/:M«1lBlceDi=GDJ;
                                        : (y)                            (G B)- ·

Now it is to be observed that G D is the deviation of the maximum := M from
the line of mean temp. =                            q= (        =(
                           D      f=t,  and /)     G        In  M,  ( i 1) -- a I ) ) the deviation  at time
p ; hence temp,  at point  =            (ft       D)                and for any other point
other timep we   have             (ft                       =   n.  Substituting therefore the        at any
                                        -f- G                                                         values
               T                                      D--)  D                  B
                    DT                                                                       q

                                               -f-
of (u. + D) and n in this equation, we get for the branch D,
a                                                                        DG.u*
     G           M_p)=            GD.v* ,andforDET=M                     ^-gjf.

By similar process we arrive at the formula; for the branches below the
lmine=o(f|lmt-eAanCt)e.mperature        in substituting m for M, the value of m being
                                  C
                                     C
ON THE HOURLY OBSERVATIONS OF THE THERMOMETER. 205

mean annual daily curve have been calculated, on the supposition
that they are semi-parabolas of the following dimensions :
,, j ^.^ ^ ^fMornm· g .branchu AmBi. .
                                                                                                                             Ordinate B C = 192' = 3°.2
                                                                                                                                       Ac =              =

f _ ^,,TNCor on buranchu .Ba Dr»                                                                                                       BG       =  288' =      4°.8
                                                                                                                                       GD       =  306'        6°
...A,ff(ternoon ,branch,                                                                                                               GE       =  360' =      5c°o#.1i
                                                                                                               .  .  .   fOrdinate              =  3<>0«6<? =
                                                                                                                        .|Absdss.      Gr> Dr»
                                                                                                               tD.           Ordinate
                                                                                                                     E  .<1  Absciss.

Nimi.ghut* ubranchuiE-aA.                                                                                         .  .   fOrdinate     EC       =  600'  =     10°
                                                                                                                        .|AbscisSi     AC       =  234'  =     3°.9

   The results are given in the following Table, which contains
the calculated and observed temperature for each hour, together
with the differences.

Table XVI. -- Showing the mean annual Hourly Temperatures

   for 1833 and 1834 at Plymouth, as observed and calculated on
   the supposition that they may be represented by Parabolic
    Abscissae.

                                                                                                   Hours. Observed Temp. Calculted Temp. Differences.

J3BOcs                                                                                              5 a.M.           49 = m            49.             000
                                                                                                    6                                  49.38       + 013
m«                                                                                                  7                4951              50.52       + 0.46
ca0 <                                                                                                8               5098              52.41       + 0.11
                                                                                                    8 9m                               52.89
53                                                                                                                   52.52                         -- 000
Xl                                                                                                 10                                  54.36             0.03
 a                                                                                                 11                52.90 =           5603              0.27
       J~ 2 ·3 (S£                                                                                 12 p.m.                             57.12       -- 0.38
«c00Ps3                                                                                                              54 33   M         57.78       -- 011
                     4321 98 7 65432 1 9                                                           10                                  58.
JS                                                              (a.                                11                55.76                               0.00
 a                                                                                                 12                56 84             57.85
                                                                                  +                                                    57.47       -- 0.20
    W                                                                                             0      a.M.        57.67             56.80       -- 0.43
                                                                                                                                       55.85
<                                                                                                                    58. =             54.64       - 0.68
                                                                                                                                       53.90
  <                                                                                                                  5765                          -- 0.83
  w                                                                                                                  57.04             52.24
                                                                                                                     56.12             51.57       - 0.70
   a                                                                                                                 55.02             50.96            000
  m                                                                                                                  53.94             50.44
                                                                                                                     52.90= /t         5000        --- 019
    60                                                                                                                                 49.64
                                                                                                                     52 05             49.36       -- 013
                                                                                                                     51.44             49.16            011
                                                                                                                     50.85             4904
                                                                                                                     50.34                         -- 0.10
                                                                                                                     5011                          + 011
                                                                                                                                                   + 08
                                                                                                                     49.72
                                                                                                                     49.39                              003
                                                                                                                     49.16
                                                                                                                     4903                                0.00
                                                                                                                                                   -- 001
206 FIFTH REPORT -- 18*5.

  We observe in this Table that the approach of the branch E A

at night to a semi-parabola is very close, the differences not
being in any case two tenths of a degree of Fahrenheit. In the

morning branch A B and noon branch B D the differences are

somewhat more considerable, but still not so great as to destroy

the approximation. In the afternoon branch, however, D E the

deviations amount in one instance to more than eight tenths of a
degree, and are too considerable to warrant this branch being
taken as a semi-parabola. Whether more extended observations
will tend to reconcile these differences is yet to be seen.

   It is not unworthy of remark that although in the results of

Dr. Brewster's inquiries the deviations did not in any case exceed
a quarter of a degree of Fahrenheit, yet the differences, as at
Plymouth, were greatest in the afternoon branch.

   I hope at no distant period to present to the Association the

results of the hourly observations for five complete years, after
which it is intended that the register shall close. This Report,
 at present necessarily limited, may then probably admit of further
 extension and correction, so as to obtain better approximations
than those arising from two years observations only.

       Plymouth, July 20tli, 1835.
                              207

         Report of the Committee on Chemical Notation.

Dr. Turner, the Chairman of the Committee appointed to
take into                     taherepaodrotpttioontheoffoalnlowuinnifgormeffescyt s:t--em  of
chemical    consideration
           notation, made

1st. That the majority of the Committee concur in approving
of the employment of that system of notation which is already in
general use on the Continent, though there exist among them
some differences of opinion on points of detail.
2ndly. That they think it desirable not to deviate in the man
ner of notation from algebraic usage except so far as con

venience requires.
   3rdly. That they are of opinion that it would save much
confusion if every chemist would always state explicitly the ex
act quantities which he intends to represent by his symbols.

Dr. Dalton stated to the Chemical Section his reasons for

preferring the symbols which he had himself used from the
commencement of the atomic theory in 1803 to the Berzelian
system of notation subsequently introduced. In his opinion
regard must be had to the arrangement and equilibrium of the
         (especially elastic  aantdomwse)ighints.everAy
atoms    to their number                                 compound atom, as
well as                                                  system either of ar

rangements without weights, or of iveights without arrange
ments, he considered only half of what it should be.
On the Infraorbital Cavities in      Deers and Antelopes, called
   Larmiers by the older French
                                     Naturalists. By A. Jacob,
M.D., Professor of Anatomy to the Royal College of Sur
geons in Ireland.

In compliance with the recommendation of the Committee of
                        oI fhtahvee  Association made
the Zoological Section               availed myself of  at the meeting
in Cambridge in 1833,                                   such opportu
nities as have been afforded me for investigating the nature,
structure, and uses of these remarkable parts. To those alto
gether unacquainted with the subject, it is necessary to state
that they consist of two oval depressions about an inch and a
half long, half an inch wide, and more than three quarters of an
inch deep, in the majority of instances ; situated on the side of
the face, and so near to the inner angle of the eye that they

create a very reasonable suspicion that they are connected
with that organ, and hence the term larmier applied to them.
The bottom of the depression is in most cases naked, but in
some it is covered with the hair ; consequently it is composed
of the skin formed into an open sac accommodated in a cor
responding depression in the bones of the face. In many ani
mals provided with this organ a gutter, formed by folds of
skin, leads so directly to it from the surface of the eye, that the
passage of the tears from the one place to the other appears in
evitable, while in others this communication is so imperfect

Ifthat a doubt is at once raised as to its destination to such a pur
pose.  the part in question be not a cavity, as suggested by
some, in which the overflowing secretions from the surface of
the eye are disposed of by evaporation, another reason for its
existence must be assigned. The arguments which may be
urged against the supposition that it is destined to receive the
tears are, first, that it exists in the antelopes and deers only, and
is even absent or merely rudimental in many of these, while in
animals said to be destitute of the usual canals for carrying off
the tears to the nose, as the elephant and hippopotamus, it is
absent ; secondly, that the solid concretion generally found in
it is not composed of such ingredients as the tears and other
Ifsecretions from the surface of the eye should afford.

       the conclusion that these are cavities for the reception of
tears be discarded, their identity of nature and character with
the numerous provisions for the secretion of peculiar or odori
ferous materials suggests itself. In many instances, especially
a it,      ON THE INFRAORBITAL CAVITIES IN DEERS, &C. 209

itin the Mammalia, glands are found opening on the surface of thea
skin and pouring out peculiar fluids sometimes altogether un
connected with any organ. Such are tbe glands on the side of;it
the head between the eye and ear of the elephant ; those deit
scribed by Tiedemann between the eye and nose in certain bats,it
consisting of a sac with a folded lining membrane, affording a;
foetid oily secretion, and beneath the eye in the marmot and
two-toed anteater ; such also are the glands on the side of the;
chest of the shrew, described by St. Hilaire, and the inguinal
glands of hares. Still more remarkable examples are furnised
by the pouches affording the valuable odoriferous materials

in the musk, beaver, and civet, and if additional examples be

required they are found in the otter, mole, hyena, ichneumon,
badger, and the dorsal gland in the peccary. That the cavities
alluded to in the deers and antelopes afford peculiar and often
odoriferous secretions, is established on the authority of several
naturalists. BufFon describes the contents in the stag as resem
bling ear-wax. Daubenton found the secretion in an old stag
so much indurated as to constitute a solid mass, or bezoar as
he calls eleven lines long, seven broad, and six thick. Cam
per found pretty large hard yellowish particles in the fallow-

deer. In species of antelope first described by Dr. Herman
Grimm, this organ secretes a fluid of such peculiar and distinct
character that no doubt can be entertained of its nature. He
describes to be yellowish fatty and viscous humour, having

an odour between musk and castor Vosmaer says that har
dens and becomes black in time, and that the animal rubs off
on the rails of its cage, but he could not detect the musky odour
Pallas, who describes the Antilope Grimmea particularly, con
curs in these observations.

   It may be objected to the conclusion that these are organs for

the production of an odoriferous secretion, that the sac exhibits
so little of glandular character that appears inadequate for
the purpose, especially when several of the external openings
alluded to, as that on the head of the elephant and the back of
the peccary, are merely the outlets of considerable glands but,
on the other hand, many organs of this character are mere sacs,
as that on the face of the bats, the bottom of which presents a
peculiar folded appearance, and the cavities in the musk and
beaver, which afford the odoriferous secretion in such large

quAantsittayt.ement respecting these infraorbital cavities has been

made by the Rev. Gilbert White in his Natural History of Sel-
burne which might appear to originate in some error, were not
supported by the more recent testimony of Major Hamilton

     1835.
          p

                                                    it
210 FIFTH REPORT 1835.

Smith. These gentlemen state that when the deer drinks, the
air is forced out through these cavities, and according to Major
Hamilton Smith may be felt by the hand, and affects the flame
of a candle, when held to it. Notwithstanding such a positive
statement by two observers of established character for faithful

Idescription, the passage of air through these cavities cannot take

place ; they are perfectly impervious toward the nostril : but
have no doubt that the fact stated is correct. The air seen to

escape passes, not through the infraorbital sacs, but through
the lachrymal passages, which are very large, consisting of two
openings capable of admitting the end of a crow's quill, the
entrance to a tortuous canal which conducts the tears to the

Iextremity of the nose. Introducing a pipe into the outlet of the

nasal duct at the extremity of the nose, can without difficulty
force a current of air or water through the nasal duct, and it
therefore appears reasonable to admit that the effect observed
by the two gentlemen alluded to arose from the animal forcing
the air into the nostrils while the mouth and nose were
immersed in water. Even in the human subject, air may be
forced up the nasal duct into the lachrymal sac by filling the
cavities of the nose from the lungs while the nostrils are closed

by the hand.
Persons following up this investigation should be aware that
these sinuses exist in a very imperfect state in many species,
being in fact merely rudimental and incapable of affording the
secretion which they are destined to provide in others. The
last  traces of  atlhl ethoergarunmimnaanytse*venItbeisdeatebcteeadutiinfulgoeaxtas,mpshleeepo,f
and   perhaps

that adherence to an original type or model which is so conspi

cuous in animal organization, and as if in obedience to a law,
that all the ruminants should be provided with a sinus beneath
the eye for the secretion of a peculiar odoriferous matter, but
that it should remain in an imperfect or unfinished state in those
who do not require such additional aid to distinguish sex or re

cognise species.
   The authorities quoted are Btiffon in the original 4to edition,

torn. vi. and Suppl. torn. iii. ; Pallas, Spicilegia Zoologica ;
White's Natural History of Selburne ; the supplementary vo
lume of Griffith's Translation of Cuvier On the Rtiminaiits, by
Major Charles Hamilton Smith ; and Camper, (Euvres, torn. i.
                            [211 ]

^nn the Effects of Acrid Poisons. By Thomas Hone kin, M.D.

The British Association for the Promotion of Science having
requested Dr. Roupell and myself to prepare a description, ac
companied with delineations, of the effects of acrid poisons,
we have both of us been desirous of complying with the wishes
of the Society, but circumstances have retarded the production
of our Report. Our researches have for mutual convenience

been conducted separately, but the results have been submitted

to and approved by each of us. A part of the Report now printed
was presented to the Medical Section at the meeting in Edin
burgh ; the remainder was communicated to the Session in
Dublin.

   The   object   wfohricthhisthreepoArstswocaisa,tiIonconhcaedivem, otore    particularly   in
view in  calling                                                            facilitate the  re
cognition of the effects of acrid poisons, with a view to aid in
judicial inquiries of a very serious nature, and also to obtain a
contribution to our knowledge of pathological anatomy, on a
point which, though it has engaged the special attention of several
able and acute observers, still demands further elucidation, viz.
the pathological appearances of the mucous membrane of the
alimentary canal. As a preparation for an exact knowledge of
the appearances which may be produced in the mucous mem
brane of this canal by acrid poisons and other irritants, a cor
rect knowledge of this membrane in its healthy state is essential ;
but here, on the very threshold of our injury we are met with a
                            it,
serious difficulty common to and every attempt to elucidate
the morbid anatomy of the alimentary canal, the want of this accu
rate and definiteknowledgeof the differentparts of the canal and of
                            wwithhichhemalathy.beIpfreasneynpterdoobfyoef athchispaasrstewrtiitohn
the different  appearances
   the limits  compatible
in

                   it
were wanting might be found in the various statements made by
anatomists respecting the colour of the mucous membrane in its
healthy state. The youthful but able pathologist Billard, whose
premature death has deprived our profession of oneof its most pro
mising cultivators, devoted great pains to the elucidation of this
subject, and has pointed out the differences which arise when
digestion actually going forward and when                                   not. Other
         is                                it
                                               is

differences doubtless proceed from circumstances connected with
the mode of death, even when
                            p        has influenced the stomach
merely indirectly. A wide range of appearances depends on this
                               2 it
single cause. The blood may leave the vessels of the stomach,
    212 FIFTH REPORT-- 1835.

    and its lining membrane may be nearly or quite white ; or, on the

    other hand, they may be turgid by cadaveric congestion, and
    the lining membrane may be more intensely injected than in
    many cases of poisoning. Such differences though great are not
    more remarkable than those which are seen after death in the

    common integuments. It is however of the utmost importance
    that they should be well understood, since a mistake respecting

    them might seriously affect the reputation, if not the life, of a
    fellow-creature. The medical profession is greatly indebted to
    Dr. Yellowly, who long since called the attention of his brethren
    to this subject. The colour of the mucous membrane of the
    stomach is also very liable to be modified by its contents, which
    act on the blood in its vessels by transudation after death. This

    and some other circumstances to be hereafter mentioned have

    probably been the means of turning aside from the truth many
    able pathologists who have written on gastro-intestinal irritation,
    and more especially on chronic inflammation of the mucous
    membrane of the stomach. The researches of Dr. Stevens re

    specting the influence of different agents on the colour of the
    blood are well deserving attention in connexion with this sub
    ject, and appear to me to have thrown new light upon it. The
    colour of the stomach as well as many other parts may be greatly
    altered by exposure to the air after removal from the body.
    The form and texture of the mucous coat of the stomach,
    which are of equal importance whether we regard the effects of
    disease or of poisons, appear to be involved in no less difficulty
    than the subject of the colour.
    As a preliminary step to the right understanding of these
    alterations of texture we ought to be acquainted with those dif
    ferences which depend in some degree on individual peculiarity,
    since the internal as well as the external teguments may admit
    of varieties of this kind. Still greater and more important dif
    ferences are doubtless to be referred to the kind of diet which

    has been habitually employed ; here however an almost insur

    mountable difficulty presents itself, since the diet employed in
    this and in most other civilized countries is of so various, and at
    the same time of so mixed a character as to render it almost

    timaipnotsys.ibleIf  to connect   cause  and  effect with any degree of cer
                         the subject   were  not  neglected, as appears to have

    been altogether the case, some clue might possibly be found in
    the observation and collection of extreme cases which from time

    to time present themselves, and some assistance might be derived
    in the way of analogy from experiments performed on inferior
    animals fed expressly for this purpose.
    Some of the differences of form and texture which come under

'\
ON THE EFFECTS OF ACRID POISONS.                                                                   213

our observation in cadaveric inspections must be referred to
alterations which the texture undergoes after death, and these
may be of two kinds, either occasioned by its own molecular
changes or by the action of the contents of the stomach, which

Inot merely alter the colour of the fluids in the vessels, as have
before stated, but materially affect the form and texture of the
membrane with which they are in contact. Extreme cases of
this kind have long since been pointed out by John Hunter as
cases of the digestion of the stomach by its own secretion.
Short of this extreme effect there are many proceeding to a less

Iconsiderable extent which must not be overlooked. The dif

ficulties which have enumerated are still further increased by
an imperfect knowledge of the structure of the lining membrane
of the stomach. The surface of the mucous membrane of the

stomach is generally described as villous, and even Billard ap
pears to agree in this description of it. I have at least a doubt
respecting the accuracy of this statement. To me the surface of
the stomach from which its secretion has been carefully removed
and its place supplied by a little clear transparent water, appears

to be indeed by no means perfectly    smooth, yet not to be  stIrtichtalys
villous like the internal surface of  the small intestines.

an indeterminate character which it is extremely difficult to de
scribe in words. In the serous membranes the assistance of a

powerful microscope enables us to distinguish delicate fibres
                                      the mucous membrane of the
intimately interlaced ; but  when     only observe an amorphous
stomach is thus examined
                             I can

semitransparent mass in which no structural arrangement can be
distinguished ; there is therefore little to be expected from this
mode of examination. When the recent healthy membrane is
immersed in clear water it becomes slightly thickened, but when
gently pressed between the fingers it resumes its former thin
ness. This would seem to indicate that the water had penetrated
a sort of areolar or spongy tissue, but had not intimately com
bined with it as with mucus itself or with some other aqueous
secretion. Some idea of the texture of the mucous membrane
of the stomach may be formed from the vessels which ramify
a

         it,

                                                                                                a
                                                                                         is
through and whicli are liable from various causes to become
injected and consequently visible. When this injection neither
intense nor universal, the vessels may be traced with the assistance
of lens or even with the naked eye.. They exhibit character
which may not inaptly be styled dendritic, since they
closely resemble the marks in Mocha stone to which mineral

ogists have applied this epithet. These injected capillaries
in the mucous membrane of the stomach are neither so minute

and delicate, nor have they so well-defined, even and clean an
214 FIFTH REPORT -- 1835.

outline as the vessels which we may see ramifying through
parts having a more firm and definite texture, as, for example,
beneath the surface of the serous membranes or in the com

pletely formed and perfectly cellular membranous adhesions

Iwhich inflammation is apt to superadd to them. In fact the ves

sels in the mucous membrane of the stomach to which am alluding

bear a very close resemblance to the earlyattempts at organization
which we may perceive in the recent false membranes upon the
surface of inflamed serous membranes before they have lost the
character of coagulable lymph. The cause of the appearance in
question seems to be the same in both instances. The imper

fect vessels ramify through a soft and scarcely concrete substance,
by which they are barely supported. They consequently become
more dilated than the minute branches from which they proceed.
The mucous membrane of the stomach, even where not thrown
Iinto rugae of greater or less extent by the action of what is

usually called the muscular coat but to which would give the
name of contractile fibrous coat, seeing it is not composed of
strictly muscular tissue·, is not perfectly even and level. When
placed on a flat surface with its free surface uppermost, we may
generally perceive very slight undulations of small extent and
little elevation, such as at times to require a particular direction
of thelight to make them visible. The elevated spots do not ap

pear to possess a very determinate arrangement. They are gene
rally of an oblong figure and vary in size from that of linseed
Ito that of rice. The intervening depressions are of less extent
and often seem almost linear.  have been thus particular in at

Itempting to describe the internal surface of the stomach, not

merely because shall have occasion to refer to the effects of

poison on particular parts, but from a belief that some very able

and laborious pathologists       have been   led to form erroneous
opinions respecting certain    appearances
                                            of this surface. This I

Iconceive to be particularly the case with respect to the small

elevations of which have last spoken. They are much more
distinct in some stomachs than in others, and when strongly
marked they appear to constitute that state which Louis desig
Inates mammillond, and which he regards as an advanced stage of
inflammation.  had long been familiar with this appearance

without knowing what precise value to assign to yet strongly
doubting its necessarily inflammatory origin.  I

                                                     it,
                                               am now satisfied

that depends on the natural structure of this part of the organ
it                                                               ;

and that according to circumstances, of which  it         important to
                                                   is

   · See the Appendix to the translation of Edwards on the Influence of Physical
Agents on Life, by Dr. Hodgkin and Dr. Fisher.
              ON THE EFFECTS OF ACRID POISONS.                   215

be aware, it may either be very conspicuous or all but impercep
tible. This conclusion is drawn from the examination not of

human stomachs only, but from that of different inferior animals,
in which similar or closely analogous appearances are observable.
They may be seen in the stomach of the dog, but the most con
clusive evidence is perhaps to be drawn from that of the horse.
The stomach of this animal, (as has been well stated by my
friend Bracy Clark in one of the articles written by him for

Rees's Cyclopaedia,) though single, may be compared to the more

compound stomachs of the ruminating animals. A large por
tion, consisting of nearly the whole of the cardiac third, is
covered with a smooth but thick cuticle, continuous with that

which lines the oesophagus. It is bounded by a thick, well-

defined, elevated edge. The portion which succeeds to this and
occupies the whole or greater part of the middle third, is void of
cuticle, and differs very much according to the state of the ani
mal at the time of death, and according to the length of time
which may have                                   the death of the animal and
the inspection of  eiltaspssetodmabcehtw. eenIt  may be compared to the di
gesting stomach of the ruminants. The resemblance is the
most manifest when the animal has been recently killed whilst
the process of digestion was going forward. This part of the
Istomach is then seen to be best supplied with blood. The ele

vations in the mucous membrane to which have been alluding
as slightly marked in the human stomach, are here strongly
marked and exhibit a manifest analogy with the honeycombed
surface of the stomach of a ruminant animal, but on a small

scale. A considerable quantity of thick mucus is poured out
upon this surface, and seems to be the secretion of the membrane

itself. A special follicular apparatus, if it exists, is so indistinct
as to escape the most careful search. When the animal, though
recently killed, has not been digesting at the time of death, the
elevations in this part of the mucous membrane, though more
strongly marked than in the human subject, do not so clearly
present the analogy before spoken of, but are very similar in
Ifform and character to those which are met with in man.
                                                                 the

animal have been long dead, and the stomach have become com
pletely collapsed and flaccid, the mucous membrane of the middle
third of the stomach becomes so smooth that the irregularities
in its surface are almost imperceptible. The injection of this
part of the               inwthhicehtwIo                          is liable to
considerable  stomach                     states last mentioned  similar dif
                variety,                  conceive must, like

ferences observable in the human stomach, be attributed to acci

dental causes. In some human stomachs examined at a very
216 FIFTH REPORT. 1835.

early period after death the irregularity is such as to justify the
appellation of mammillonie which Louis has applied to whilst
                          it

                            I is
                                              a
                                                            a

                                                           I it,
in the flaccid and long dead, and even in the recent stomach pro
vided the secretions of the organ have acted upon the lining
membrane, every trace of
                             nearly or quite obliterated.                 have
observed the former or strongly marked state in the stomach of
young persons in whom the idea of chronic gastritis was inad
missible. At the same time would observe that differences in
the visibility and permanence of this irregularity of the mucous
membrane of the stomach are met with to sufficient extentto

induce me to believe that stomachs differ among themselves in
this respect independently of their being recently dead or having
been engaged in digestion at the time of death. When the irre
gularities in question are strongly and permanently marked they
may be regarded as the result of real hypertrophy, since the
               not only firmer but thicker. This hypertrophyIa
membraneit
           is
may often result from the use of certain kinds of food, but
                                           I
                                                                     a
                                                                      it
seems also to be induced by other causes which occasion de
termination of blood to the stomach. Thus, have repeatedly
met with in stomachs which have been the seat of long-stand
ing ulceration, even in those parts which do not appear to have

the least participated in that state.      have also seen in seve
                                                                 it

                                                                       ;
ral cases in which haemoptysis had repeatedly taken place and             I
observe in the last fasciculus published by my friend Dr. Cars-
well, the representation of part of the stomach of person who
                          a                                   a

had laboured under this affection which tends to confirm the re

mark which have now made.
          I

The last third or pyloric portion of the horse's stomach, like

the middle, presents somewhat uneven surface, but the eleva

tions are much less both in height and extent. In fact readily
               a

                              is it
                                     a is

                                                                  it

                                                           I
assumes almost an even surface,        generally paler, and the mu

cus which lubricates its surface less adherent and tenacious.

have sometimes seen indications of very distinct follicular ap
paratus in this part. The human stomach, like that of the horse,

generally becomes much less distinctly granular or uneven to
wards the pyloric extremity, and indications of follicular ap
               is I
                            I is

                              I

                                              is a
                                                           a
paratus may sometimes be seen, though confess they are gene
rally very equivocal. As have taken some pains to discover
how the human stomach circumstanced with respect to folli
cular appendages, and as the subject one on which lam per
suaded diversity of opinion exists, shall take the liberty of
aa
making further digression in order to say few words respect
ing it. By some the existence of follicles denied, by others
certain appearances are regarded as indications of follicles
               ON THE EFFECTS OF ACRID POISONS.                 217

Iwhich conceive ought not to be regarded as really possessing
this character. Of the former class are some foreign patholo
          My   fIriehnavdeDbre.enCadrsewscerlilbinagp,peaarnsd
gists.  which                                                   to regard those eleva
tions                                                           which when in a state

of hypertrophy give to the mucous membrane of the stomach
the character which Louis has designated mammillonie, as the
follicles of the stomach, and the red spots which he has accurately
Idescribed as sometimes occupying their centres he regards as
the orifices of these follicles.  am induced to take a different

view of these reddened centres. The mucous membrane of the

stomach appears itself to be fully adequate to the production of
mucus. Its follicles (if it possess any) are probably designed
to bestow some peculiar properties on the juices of the stomach.
We may therefore expect to find their situation occasionally
pointed out by indications of a peculiar secretion at particular
parts ; and it is the fact, that we actually meet with such dif
ferences in the stomach rather than the actual demonstration of a

I Ifollicular structure, on which ground the opinion, which offer
rather as matter of conjecture than of absolute conviction.
The mucous membrane of the stomach sometimes presents
small scattered spots, varying in size from about a twentieth
to a tenth of an inch in diameter, from which the mucous

membrane appears to have been removed, leaving a clean de

fined but by no means an elevated edge. Such spots are some
times the commencement of ulceration, by which the stomach
is actually perforated. They cannot, therefore, be regarded as
the consequence of cadaveric solution. Spots are sometimes
found scattered over the mucous membrane of the stomach

scarcely exceeding in size those last mentioned, having a very
slight depression, and rendered conspicuous chiefly by their
colour, which is either dark brown or blackish. They are

evidently produced by ecchymosis, and the idea that they are
connected with a follicular apparatus is supported by the occa
sional existence of similar spots in the small intestines, where

I have supposed them to be connected with the solitary glands.
IThere is another appearance which have met with in the
stomach, and which though probably in degree cadaveric, con
Icurs with the
which I have
               two preceding      appearances to support the view
                                  found the mucous membrane of
               taken.  have

the stomach removed in numerous scattered spots having a cir
Icular figure, and varying considerably both in diameter and

depth. They resemble the appearance which first noticed in

not having elevated edges, vascular areola, or other indications
of ordinary ulceration, but they differ from them in appearing
218 FIFTH REPORT 1835.

to be more decidedly the effect of destructive solution. The
edges were somewhat reduced in thickness. In some instances
the mucous membrane was only rendered thin, in others wholly
removed, and in the most advanced, the submucous cellular

membrane was more or less removed, and the subjacent coat
exposed. The surrounding cellular membrane, however, retained
its healthy character, and allowed the free movement of the

mucous membrane upon the subjacent coat, furnishing an addi
Itional argument against the inflammatory origin of the appear

ance which have been describing. The exposed cellular mem
brane was generally of a pale almost milk-white colour, resem
bling that which is met with in the more extensive softenings
I Iof the stomach by the action of its own secretion.

      conceive that the appearance which have thus described
                                                                  of the  follicular
must have   bIetenmaoyccahsiaovneedcobmymethneceodperbaetfioorne  death,   but the
secretion.

symptoms of the case did not seem to warrant this idea, unless

it were almost during the agony. The only difficulty seems to
consist in the solvent process being confined to such limited
spots, but this may perhaps be accounted for by the dissolving
follicular secretion existing only in small quantity, though of
intense quality, and, perhaps, on the membrane in the neigh
bourhood of the follicles having undergone some change by
which it was rendered more susceptible of the influence of their

secretion.

  ISince have been engaged in the experiments which the re
Iquest of the British Association has rendered necessary,
have met in the course of one of them with some appearances

Iin the stomach of a dog which regard as still further evidence

Iin favour of the view which have been laying before you. A
dog was poisoned with oxalic acid in order to observe the pecu
IlaiancrietsieswhpircohduIceshdalbl yhathveisIn
            agent.                           addition             to other  appear
            hereafter   to                                        observed  numer
                                             notice, I

ous minute opake white spots, which could imagine to be
nothing else than follicles which had become preternaturally
conspicuous amidst the surrounding altered mucous membrane·.
When we consider the great variety of appearances which the
mucous membrane of the stomach may present independently

  I· have since on two or three occasions met with the like appearance in the

human stomach. The distribution of the minute whitish spots resembling that
which was observed in the other appearances referred to a follicular apparatus ;
and the evident difference between these spots, and the granular or manunillar

Ielevations before alluded to, and which were likewise strongly marked in one of

these coses, afford considerable confirmation to the view which have offered.
ON THE EFFECTS OF ACRID POISONS.                                 219

of the effect of any poisonous ingesta, and which are often
quite as striking as those appearances which are met with when
poisons have been known to be taken, we cannot but be sen
sible how fully medical men are justified when in cases of legal

inquiry they hesitate to draw any positive conclusions from the
state of the stomach itself, and lay the principal stress on the
chemical analysis of its contents, as well as of that of the matter
which has been rejected by vomiting, and of the articles of
which those suspected of having been poisoned are known to
have partaken. In this branch of inquiry great progress has
been made of late years, and to no one in this country are we
more indebted for than to Dr. Christison. Although must
I it,not be expected that the report which the British Associationit
has called for will throw that light on the morbid appearances
                                                                     I
produced by poisoning which will give to them similar degree
                             I
                                                 a
of certainty with that possessed by chemical analysis, yet

believe we may reasonably entertain the hope, that the various
and multiplied experiments in which know that my colleague
on this occasion has been laboriously engaged will do much
towards it. Some interesting conclusions appear to me to be
pbinted to, by the few instances of poisoning which have fallen
under my own observation, as well as by the small number of
experiments which have as yet been able to make. These
will now proceed to lay before the Association, together with    I
representations of the appearances observed, the fidelity of
which does great credit to the artists by whom they have been
produced. There are always painful feelings accompanying ex
periments on inferior animals, yet trust that in making them
                             I
we may be fully justified on principle, when the object in view
                                 it
promises to be an advantage to man, provided we are careful to
seek the end in view with the least expense of life and withI
the least possible amount of suffering.
                                         felt considerable diffi

culty in making choice of the animals to be the subject of these

experiments, and have endeavoured as far as possible to take
those lives which for other reasons was either necessary or
desirable to sacrifice. Another point to be kept in view in,
selecting the objects of experiments is, that the animals may
be such, that the conclusions to be drawn from them may with
a good degree of analogy be applied to man. Dogs have in
general been selected for this purpose; and their size, their
sufficient degree of tenacity of life, and their patience under suf
fering warrant this choice.  have made some attempts with
                             I

                                                              ;
cats, supernumerary and worthless animals of this species being
more easily obtained than in the case of dogs but their extra
ordinary tenacity of life and the readiness with which they
220 FIFTH REPORT -- 1835.

                                                           I
                                                                I it,

                                                                                               a
reject from the stomach whatever offends induced me, after
having unsuccessfully attempted to poison four of them with
                                                       them the subject of experiment.
arsenic, to  desist from making                         an herbivorous as well as car
              desirable to employ
It appeared

nivorous animal, and for this purpose selected the horse, as
the most accessible animal of sufficient size; and though his
stomach differs materially from that of man, conceive that the

choice has not been an useless one.

              Of the Modus Operandi of Poisons.

   This subject having been made the object of very careful in
quiry by my friends Dr. Addison and John Morgan, with the
result of showing that the influence of poison depends rather on
a power exerted through the medium of the nerves, or by sym
pathy, than on the contamination of the circulating fluids by
absorption, have not thought necessary to direct my atten
is                                                     it
    it
         is                                                 I

           it

          I

                         is

                                                    ?
tion to in the experiments which have 'made. There was
one point, however, which appeared to me to be worthy of
attention in reference to the modus operandi when the stomach
the organ acted upon by poisons, viz., Are the effects pro
duced to be attributed to the mere injury of the organ, connected
as with the rest of the system by the most astonishing

sympathy; or the principal stress to be laid on the specific
action of the poison The fact that number of persons have
been killed by drinking boiling water, who have died exhibitingis a
many of the symptoms of poisoning, shows that the lesion of thea
stomach without specific influence                                       very adequate cause of
speedy death still was desirous of ascertaining the degree and
              :

                   I

                                  a
extent of the mischief induced by this cause compared with

what takes place when poison                           is  employed       ;I  therefore had

three ounces of water nearly at the boiling-point thrown by
        of a syringe into                              the stomach of
means    almost instantly                               returned nearlya  small and young dog.
                                                                          as clear as when re
It was

ceived, and still at high temperature. After having thus re
jected the water, the dog exhibited so little symptoms of uneasia
                      a
ness that almost suspected that little or no mischief had been
        a; I
inflicted but in short time he made efforts to vomit, and re

jected      clear fluid somewhat frothy and mixed with little
                                                                              a

coagulated secretion resembling lymph or slightly heated albu
men he continued to repeat similar efforts at various intervals,
;

the matter rejected bearing the same character as before, but
occasionally tinged with blood. He appeared at times to suffer

inconvenience in his throat, but his sufferings did not seem to

be very severe they appeared, however, to be on the increase
              ;
            ON THE EFFECTS OF ACUIU POISONS.                                        221

Irather than on the decline, and about three hours after the water

had been given, found him weak, inclined to remain quiet, and
with the upper part of the abdomen remarkably swollen, whilst
the lower was as much contracted. The efforts to vomit were

less frequent. Though cheerful when noticed, he had become
cool and languid. Judging that the lesion of the stomach had

Inow arrived at its height, and that death was inevitable, had
the animal killed by a blow on the head. On examining the
J.stomach and oesophagus they presented an appearance which
has been well represented by C.  Canton. The oesophagus
was of bright red, but its cuticular lining was not detached ; its
parietes were very much thickened by infiltration with a colour
less fluid, constituting true inflammatory oedema, and bearing
considerable resemblance to oedema of the glottis which is seen
in man, except with respect to the redness and injection, which
in oedema of the glottis in man are often wanting. The stomach

was more intensely reddened than the oesophagus. It was dis

tended with a considerable quantity of transparent but ropy
secretion, but its parietes were not much thickened. The red

ness was far more intense towards the cardiac extremity, where
blood appeared to be extravasated as well as injected. Towards

the pylorus the discolouration was comparatively trifling.
   The situation of the most intense effect produced by the irri

Itation of hot water tends to confirm some observations which
   have had occasion to make in examining the stomachs of per
sons poisoned by sulphuric acid, and leads me to offer a few

remarks on

The Inferences to be drawn from the Situation of the principal
                  Lesion of the Stomach in Poisoning.

  IIn the cases to which have alluded, the principal action of
the boiling water and sulphuric acid were observed in the greater
curvature immediately opposite the orifice of the oesophagus,
rather than precisely at the cardiac extremity, where, in other
cases, the most intense injection is generally met with. The
          occurrence of     thagisenfta, ctlikiendtuhceestwomewhtiochsuIpphaovsee,
repeated  intensely active                                                           that
when an                                                                             men

tioned, has been swallowed or forced into the stomach, it is, as
it were, discharged against that part of the internal surface of
the stomach which is immediately opposite the opening, and

that upon this spot an almost instantaneous effect is produced,
which is deeper and more intense than that which is afterwards
produced on other parts of the mucous membrane, when the
agent is diffused over them, lowered in its activity by the mucus,
which is rapidly secreted, and which does not merely dilute the
222 FIFTH REPORT 1855.

Inoxious agent, but in some degree protects the membrane. Th*

fact that the spot which have now pointed out is not precisely
that at which the highest degree of vascularity is generally met
with, may induce us to regard the discovery of a morbid ap
pearance at that spot as a ground of suspicion that some fluid
capable of producing an immediate effect has been received into

Ithe stomach. Even when the noxious agents received into the

stomach do not produce the immediate effect which have
noticed in the case of boiling water and sulphuric acid, some
                                                        of the morbid
inferences      maIyf  be drawn    from  the situation  the solid form,  ap
pearances.             the poison  have  been taken in                   as,

for example, when arsenic has been taken in substance, strongly
marked effects will be produced at those particular spots on
which the poison has lain, whilst the intervening portions either

escape, or exhibit much less striking effects. If, on the other
hand, the poison be taken in solution, and be not sufficiently
intense at once to destroy the power of the stomach, its effects
will be found most conspicuous in those parts which, under
other circumstances, are the most frequent seat of injection,
namely, the cardiac extremity, or even the whole cardiac half
and the summits of the rugae. In fact, the inflammation of the

stomach produced by an irritating poison in a fluid form, and

not acting immediately as an escharotic, appears to resemble
that which takes place in the mucous membrane of the alimen
tary canal when no poison has been taken. At least the prin
cipal difference appears to exist in the superior intensity of the
                      which are occasionally observed in cases of
ainpgp.earaItnciess  perfectly consistent with this remark, that   poison
                                                                   we not
only find the rugae of the stomach reddened, especially at their
summits, but also the edges of the valvules conniventes most
Iintensely injected when the effect of the poison is continued into

the small intestines. In the horses which have had poisoned
the orifices of the biliary and pancreatic d\icts, which are marked
by slight projection on the internal surface of the duodenum,
were similarly reddened. The wax model of the stomach of a
horse poisoned by corrosive sublimate given in solution, exhibits
in a well-marked degree the effects of a fluid acrid poison ; it is
also worthy of attention that it is not merely the summits of the
larger elevations, such as the rugae of the stomach and the pro
jecting orifices of the ducts, which become conspicuous by their
                 injection,  the summits of those      smaller elevations to
wsuhpicehrioIr  have called  particular attention in  describing the charac

ter of the internal surface of the stomach sometimes become

similarly distinguished.
   There is one circumstance in connexion with the redness and
         ON THE EFFECTS OF ACRID POISONS.

injection of the mucous membrane of the stomach which ap
pears to me to be worthy of attention, as affording in some in
Istances a ground of distinction between the effects of decided

inflammation and mere congestion. As far as am aware, it
has never been particularly pointed out. When an intense and
diffused inflammation of the mucous membrane has been excited,

the membrane is liable to be not only reddened by injection
and thickened by the afflux of fluids toII

                                                      it,

                                                           I

                                                                                                 a
                                                   but an interstitial
deposit of lymph seems to take place, which produces the ap
pearances of small irregular opake whitish spots in the sub
stance of the membrane itself. do not know that can better

describe the appearance which         wish to point out than by
                                      gruel, prepared with oatmeal,
simple comparison. In thinnish
we have translucent viscid fluid, through which small opake
whitish particles are diffused. Let us suppose the translucent
Ifluid to be coloured by lake, or some other suitable pigment
      a
which does not destroy translucence, and the appearance to
which allude may be readily conceived. In cases of simple
congestion, such as are produced by affections of the heart or
other causes disturbing the circulation, and in cases of great
ritation without the deposition of lymph interstitially, we mayaI
have redness and injection to great degree of intensity, but
without the accompanying irregular opake spots in the subII     ir
stance of the mucous membrane.  a
The appearance which have just described was very cona
spicuous in the stomach of man who had poisoned himself
with hydrocyanic acid. Of            the strength  sapnedakq. uanIttitpyroodfuctehde
poison which he had taken           am unable to

speedy, but not immediate, death. The inspection was not
made by myself, but the stomach very shortly after its removal
from the body was brought to Guy's Hospital, and the appear
J.ances which presented were carefully copied by the very ac
         it
curate pencil of C. Canton. At the same time must ob
serve that the appearance in question so intimately connected
                                      is

with the structure of the membrane as to render perfect de
lineation almost impossible. Similar, but rather less conspicu
ous, interstitial opake spots were observed in the stomach of
an elderly person who had taken arsenic. This stomach was,
like the former, not met with in one of my own inspections, but
was brought to me some houfs after its removal by an able
anatomist, who had conducted the examination. This circum
stance, as well as that of the arsenic having been taken, as
                                                                it

was supposed, in fluid form, may account for the absence of
some of the other appearances which are often, and perhaps
   224 FIFTH REPORT -- 1835.

   generally, seen in casea of poisoning by the swallowing of
   arsenic.

      The character of the secretion upon the surface of the mu
   cous membrane will sometimes throw considerable light on the
   condition of the membrane before death. In the case of the

   dog which had received boiling water, we have seen that a large
   quantity of fluid was secreted, since the stomach was found
   distended with    and considerable quantity had also beenit,
   rejected by repeated vomiting. Not only the quantity but the
   quality of the secretion was altered, for besides the clear and;
   glairy fluid, there was also some opake and partially coagua
   lated matter, which appeared to consist of lymph. The fact
   that none of this was found in the stomach after death shows
                                    it--setlhfet.oabthuendlainnicneg  membrane in the form
   thata     did  not attach                                          of the fluid secretion,
   of      false  membrane
         it

   combined with the continued and forcible action of the contrac

   tile fibrous coat, having probably been the cause which pre
   vented its doing so. In other instances, when the irritating
   cause very active and remains applied to particular spots, the
          I is
                 is
   secretion rather lymph than mucus, and remains attached to

   the lining membrane, except under particular circumstances,
   which shall have to notice in one of the cases am about to
                                             it
   relate.                                       it is

   The presence of small quantity of blood in the matterI
   secreted equally worthy of attention with the production ofis a
             is

   lymph instead of ordinary mucus. In whatever way the es
   cape of this blood brought about,                                  an evidence of the
   violence of the injury which the mucous membrane has re
   ceived. It would appear, however, that
                                                                      takes place in two
   modes, which deserve particular attention. In the one case the
   vessels seem to give way under the immediate influence of the
   violence which they receive, as well as from considerable and
   sudden injection. The haemorrhage in this case resembles that
   which takes place from mechanical injury, or more closely that
   from the Schneiderian membrane which occasionally takes
   place under violent exertion. In the other case to which
          is

                           It

                                                   is
                                                                                        a
                                                                                                 is

                                                                       I
   allude, the escape of blood        the result of more slow and

   gradual process.           appears to be brought about by the alter
   ation of structure which takes place as the result of the inflam
   mation which the irritating cause has created. The blood es

   capes from numerous minute points at which the redness most
   intense, the substance of the membrane having become soft and

   tender,   though somewhat thickened.      the result               of inflammation,
             this softening of the texture,
     It

X
       ON THE EFFECTS OF ACRID POISONS.                                                                                     225

and which prepares the way for the escape of blood at numerous
points, which appears to me to be worthy of particular attention,
since it seems quite analogous to that which takes place in acute
ly inflamed serous membranes when plastic lymph is thrown out
and is about to become organized. In the case of the serous

membranes, these numerous and minute extravasations of blood
into the closely applied or adherent lymph appear to be the first
stage by which the organization of the false membrane com

Imences.

      shall now proceed to relate some of the cases and experi
ments which have furnished                                     of
drawings and models which      tIhehaovpe ptoortsuunbimtieits  to  producing the
                                                                   the inspection
of the Medical Section.

   12 -- lOwio.-- 1829. Guy's Hospital.-- No. 1.-- Examination of the
body of William Robert Squires, set. 16, admitted into Luke's Ward on

tahresen1ic1thb, yanadccwidheont.diedItabaopupteatrwsentthya-stixonhtohuersmaofrtneirnghaovifngtheswIaOllothwehde

picked up a piece of cheese which his master had charged with arsenic
and placed as a poison for rats. Having shaken or blown it to get rid of
the dust or flour which he thought was upon   it,
                                                   Ahe swallowed it. He

afterwards took his dinner and went to his work, but was seized with

vomiting and tormina. The cause of his illness was not suspected until
the following day, when the lad's master discovered that the poisoned
cheese had been removed. He was brought to the hospital, and two
5-grain doses of sulphate of zinc were given. They produced vomiting
of bilious matter, mixed with flake or two of a substance resembling
semitransparent membrane, spotted with blood.a                 blister was then                                             It
applied, but he died almost immediately after. His pulse was verya
quick, but his symptoms, even short time before death, did not appear                                                                  a
very urgent. He had passed stools, and had complained of pain of
head, but not of heat of the throat.
The appearance of the body indicated an age less than that assigned
to the lad. The body was
                          in  good condition, but mottled with rather

lighHCthe-ceaosdlto..u----reTdThheeirrvheeisgacduelraawr asolivfnidothtesoppocethsne.esdt . were healthy, hut the lungs exhi
bited considerable cadaveric engorgement. The remains of the thymus
gland were large. The heart was rather small and contracted.
                                                                                                                            con

tained some coagulated blood.

   Abdomen. -- There was generally diffused light rose-colour over the
       a
                            a

                                     in
                                           it
greater part of the exterior of the intestines, but appeared rather to

receive the tinge from congestion than from inflammation, not being at
tended with any effusion of lymph or other product of inflammation, and
not particularly affecting parts in contact, but portions of the whole ca
libre at intervals, which generally occurred
                                              depending portions, were
of deeper colour than the rest. The interior of the oesophagus was to
a

all appearance healthv, or at most of very faint rose-colour. The mu-

1835.                                 Q
226 FIFTH REPORT -- 1835.

cons membrane of the stomach was corrugated, and exhibited extensive
deep and bright injection, not nearly so uniformly diffused as is often
the case, but most considerably affecting the rugae. The middle third
was the most considerably affected, but there was no marked difference
at that part which is opposed to the cardiac orifice. There was no decided
abrasion, but at two or three small points the effused lymph was adhe
rent. The pyloric extremity was the least reddened, but at this part
the follicular glands were elevated and very distinct. The stomach
contained a considerable quantity of watery bilious fluid, and a mass
which appeared chiefly to consist of a coagulated secretion resembling
the plastic lymph on the surface of an inflamed serous membrane. It
was about the size of the palm of one's hand, and had very strongly re
ceived the impression of the rugae of the stomach, and the surface in
contact with the lining membrane closely resembled it in colour and in
the distribution of the extravasated blood intimately intermixed with it
on this Surface. The other surface resembled common coagulable lymph,
but entangled in it there was a fragment of what appeared to be par
tially dissolved cheese, mixed with numerous particles of white opake
matter. A small quantity taken from this part, dried and mixed with
black flux and heated, afforded a distinct trace of sublimed metallic ar
senic. Another portion, reduced on charcoal before the blowpipe,
yielded the alliaceous odour. There was a diffused and light but not
bright redness of the duodenum. A similar condition, but in a much
less marked degree, was observable throughout the small intestines, in
which the solitary glands were particularly distinct ; there was scarcely
any faecal matter in the canal, but there was abundance of secretion,
which in its character appeared intermediate between ordinary mucus
and coagulable lymph. There was a slight degree of cedema of the sub
mucous cellular membrane. The large intestines were of a more natu
ral appearance. The mucous membrane was generally pale, but there
was a manifest increase of redness about the verge of the anus. Many
of the mesenteric glands were much enlarged. The structure of the
liver appeared to be healthy, with the exceptron of some scattered ecchy-
mosed spots, obviously of recent formation, and a little dappling of a
lighter colour. The gall-bladder was distended with rather dilute bile.
The spleen and pancreas were healthy, as were also the kidneys and
bladder, excepting some increased vascularity of the mucous membrane
of the bladder near the cervix at the posterior part.

    The points worthy of remark in this case appear to be: 1st, That
though a considerable quantity of arsenic had been taken, the symptoms
which followed were not proportionably urgent and rapid. For this
there appeared to have been at least two causes. The cheese in which
the arsenic was involved having resisted digestion, seems to have pre
vented much of the arsenic from coming in contact with the stomach.
The food which was taken almost immediately after the swallowing of

the poison may have also acted in a similar manner. It may also have

had the effect of exciting the healthy action of the stomach by setting
up the digestive process : this appears to be analogous to what takes
place in horses which have eaten the leaves of the yew tree, which are
ON THE EFFECTS OF ACRID POISONS.                                       2kl

an active poison to horses and other cattle. They generally die in a
few hours after taking this poison; but it has been shown by my friend
Bracy Clark, that if food be taken in conjunction with, or immediately
after, the yew leaves, the injurious effects do not follow, but the poison

Iand the food appear to be digested together. The second point is the

complete illustration of the remarks which have offered respecting the
production of coagulable lymph, and of the escape of blood from minute
points on the inflamed surface.

   3rdly. The detachment of this layer of lymph from the mucous sur

face, which was probably brought about by the efforts to vomit, renewed
with increased energy by the emetics of sulphate of zinc. This is a
practical point, bearing on the use of emetics and the mode of employ
ing them *.

   No. 2. This case occurred so recently as the 21st of last month,
(August, 1834.) It is that of a middle-aged man who like the lad in
the22p--rec8emdion.g--c1a8se34h. ad  taken
                                     Guy's  arsenic.                  of the body of

                                            Hospital. -- Examination
A. B., aged about 35 years, a patient of B. B. Cooper's in Accident
Ward, admitted on the 2 1st, a short time after he had taken about an

ounce of arsenic. He was a man of dissolute and intemperate habits

and took the arsenic whilst in a state of intoxication. Vomiting had

taken place in about half an hour after he had swallowed the poison.

On medical assistance being obtained, the stomach-pump was freely

employed ; he was afterwards removed to the hospital, where an emetic
of sulphate of zinc was administered and acted pretty freely. The
patient was then perfectly sensible, and endeavoured as far as lay in
his power to cooperate with the means employed for his recovery. Be
sides the emetic a considerable quantity of chalk was given to him.
He was affected with purging us well as vomiting. His first stools
were not seen, but those which, he afterwards passed contained much
jellylike mucus. He passed some urine, the character of which was
not noticed. The abdomen was somewhat painful when pressed.

He sunk in a state of collapse about midnight.
The external appearances presented nothing remarkable. The body

was in good condition as to flesh, and its surface generally pale.

The head was not opened.
   The pleura on the right side was almost universally adherent by a
firm old adventitious cellular membrane. The left was perfectly free
from adhesions ; there was little or no serum in its cavity. The sub
stance of the lungs appeared generally crepitant and healthy, but
posteriorly there was a good deal of sanguineous engorgement, having
very much the character of pulmonary apoplexy. In the anterior por
tion of the lung were one or two rounded portions having completely
this character. The pericardium contained some straw-coloured serum.
The heart was large, but neither remarkably gorged nor contracted ;
the right auricle was rather distended ; the blood in the right ventri-

a2· A drawing of the rejected portion of lymph illustrated this case.
                                                              ·
228 FIFTH REPORT -- 1835.

cle was partially coagulated with some separation of fibrin. The peri
toneum was partially minutely injected, especially towards the cardiac
extremity of the stomach, and on some of the convolutions of the small
intestines. The branches of the mesenteric veins were somewhat dis
tended. There was a small quantity of straw-coloured serum in the
lower pelvis, with some tender diaphanous films of coagulable lymph
which retained the serum in its meshes. (This lymph may have sepa
rated from the serum by coagulation after death.) The stomach was
flaccid and slightly distended, containing air and dirty turbid chocolate-
colour fluid in which were some gritty matter, and softer whitish pow
der, probably chalk. There was no concrete mucus or lymph adherent
to the internal surface of the stomach. The mucous membrane was ge
 nerally of an intense red colour, deepest about the middle towards the
smaller curvature, a little less so at the cardia, and considerably less
towards the pylorus and greater curvature. The redness was not alto
gether diffused, but for the most part assumed the character of a dendritic
capillary injection. In some instances this redness was most intense
 where rugae appeared to have existed. Along the greater curvature and
a little towards the pylorus the remains of the ruga were very evident and
of a livid or chocolate colour, the substance of the mucous membrane being
considerably thickened along their course. The surface of the membrane
 generally was slightly granular ; there was no appearance of abrasion
produced either by the poison or the stomach-pump. The mucous mem
brane did not appear particularly soft, but was perhaps a little thickened.
 In the injected parts between the distended dendritic capillaries
 there was a small appearance of white opacity, suggesting the idea that
 a little lymph had been separated in the substance of the membrane.
This appearance was less distinct than in some other cases of a similar
kind. The duodenum was mottled with red colour, but not by any
 means intensely injected. Throughout the small intestines there was a
 marked redness approaching to lilac and of a light colour in the course
 of the valvular conniventes. The mucus which they contained was rather
 thick, grumous and turbid, but by no means ropy. The aggregate and
 solitary glands were not particularly developed. The mucous membrane
 of the colon as far as it was examined was pale and covered with thick
 mucus. Towards the rectum, and in that intestine, the mucous mem
 brane was a little injected in spots ; this was most considerable towards
 the anus. The mucous membrane at this part resembled paste, and
 had very little odour. The mucous glands were developed. The liver
 was rather large, of a mottled yellow colour, with a granular appearance,
 having a good deal of the character of liver met with after the abuse
 of mercury, the acini assuming the form of small rounded bodies : in
 some spots there were contraction and induration of the intervening sub
 stance, and one or two small semicartilaginous bodies imbedded in its sub
 stance near the surface ; they were probably the effect of blows or some
 other old local injury. The gall-bladder was distended with greenish
 bile ; no trace of bile had been observed in the alimentary canal. The
 pancreas was healthy, but perhaps more coloured than is usual. The
 spleen was of moderate size and apparently healthy. The kidneys were
               ON THE EFFECTS OF ACRID POISONS.            229

healthy, but rnther injected. The bladder was contracted, and its mucous
membrane a little injected, especially towards the cervix, where the

veins were distended.

The principal points of consideration which this case suggests are,

1st, the greater rapidity with which death followed the taking the poison ;
2nd, the differences in the appearances observed after death, consisting
in the more general diffusion of redness and injection, and in the ab
sence of plastic lymph ; 3rd, the different mode of treatment, consist
ing in the. use of the stomach-pump and the liberal use of emetics, to

which may be ascribed the removal of the coagulable lymph, had it been
thrown out, and the application of arsenic in solution to almost every
part of the stomach instead of partially in a solid form.
The contents of the stomach and small intestine of this patient were
very carefully examined by R. H. Bretts, a pupil at Guy's Hospital, who
has devoted great attention to chemical research. I need not detail the

process to which he had recourse. There was no difficulty in the dis
covery of arsenic in the stomach, from which some remains of the white

oxide were taken. The presence of the arsenic in the intestine was

made certain, but not without considerable difficulty, and its quantity ap

peared to be very minute. On this I would lay some stress, as in the
experiments which I have next to relate, the one on a dog, the other on a
horse, no arsenic could be discovered in the intestines though carefully

Isought by equally practised analysts.              which I shall relate
   No. 3. The next example of poisoning
                                by arsenic
is that of a dog, and here I would observe that met with considerable
difficulty before I succeeded in having a dog killed with this poison ; for
although they do not at first refuse to take either liquid or solid food with
which arsenic has been mixed, yet having taken it tljey readily reject it
Ifrom the stomach, and then appear to grow suspicious and generally re

fuse further doses. at length succeeded, with the assistance of T.Du vis,
by giving repeated doses, so small as to be disguised, at the intervals of
an hour each to a hungry dog. He retained some of the doses for an
hour and half or more. He vomited after each. He survived the first

dose more than twelve hours ; but, as he died in the course of the night
when he was not watched, it is impossible to state the exact time. In

the stomach of this dog, which was examined the following morning, the
mucous membrane was found deeply reddened towards the cardiac ex
tremity and in other parts, to some of which the arsenic in substance

was attached, being intermixed with the secretion, which in some re

spects resembled coagulable lymph and assumed the formofafal.se mem
brane. When this layer was fresh raised from the surface of the mem
brane the inflamed and reddened texture was of a bright colour. When
the secretion had been previously separated, the membrane, coloured by
injection or extravasation, presented a deeper hue. The viscid as well as

more solid exudation from the surface of the stomach was somewhat
                                of the particles of which were examined by my
tinged   with   blood,   some    had not wholly lost their form, but the regu
friend         Lister ;   they
        J. J.
larity of their outline was considerably impaired.

Though this blood had doubtless escaped from some portion of abraded
230 FIFTH REPORT 1835.

surface, I did not discover any spot in which abrasion had taken place.
Almost every part on the intestinal canal of this dog exhibited more or
less injection of a bright colour. In the higher portions the redness oc
cupied nearly the whole surface, but lower down it strikingly marked
the summits of the ruga;. The mucous glands towards the termination
of the rectum were considerably enlarged. The contents of the intes
tinal canal were examined by G. O. Rees, but no trace of arsenic could

be detected even in the small intestines*.
    No. 4. This illustration I take from the case of a horse which received

2.J ounces of arsenic rolled up in dry paper. In four hours the effect of
the poison was strongly shown ; and in the evening, ten hours from the
time at which it was given, the animal died. The stomach was examined

the following morning. It was distended with masticated hay, mixed
with a moderate quantity of fluid. A considerable quantity of the

arsenic in substance was found about the greater curvature rather more
than one third from the pylorus, and consequently applied to the second
and third portions of the mucous membrane. Traces of the arsenic
were evident in many other parts of the stomach, although it was no
where collected in substance as at the spot just mentioned. The greater
portion of the mucous surface of the middle third was covered with a

tenacious layer of secretion intermediate between lymph and mucus. It

was nearly white when applied to the stomach, but the other surface was
discoloured as well as roughened by the intermixed and adherent parti
cles of food. The mucous membrane beneath this layer was deeply
coloured with blood in those parts with which the arsenic appeared to
have been in contact, whilst over a large surface in which this was not
the case, the membrane, though not white, did not seem to be morbidly
coloured. The summits of the rugte and other prominent portions of
the mucous surface', both in the third portion of the stomach and in the
pylorus, were especially reddened. This was the case with the orifices
of the biliary and pancreatic ducts. That portion of the stomach which
 is covered with a strong cuticular lining did not appear to be at all af
fected. Most of the bots, of which there were several in this stomach,
 were still alive. There was some redness in the course of the alimentary
 canal, but it was neither intense nor otherwise remarkable. The con
 tents of these intestines were very carefully examined, but no arsenic
was discovered.

    No. 5. A second horse received a portion of arsenic in the same man
ner as the preceding, except that instead of being allowed to die he was
killed in four hours, before he had betrayed any symptom of derange
 ment from the dose which he had taken. The stomach was soon after
 examined. It contained about the same quantity of food as in the for
 mer case, and the arsenic in substance was found collected in precisely
 the same part of the stomach. A considerable portion, however, had
 also passed the pylorus. The appearances observed in this case were
 very similar to those observed in the preceding instance, but they were
 much less intense. The same kind of tenacious layer covered the greater

      · Wax models by Joseph Towne illustrated this and the following cases.
ON THE EFFECTS OF ACRID POISONS.                                               231

part of the middle portion of the organ. Its free surface was discoloured
with intermixed and attached particles of food, but the thickness of this
layer was much less than in the former case. The membrane beneath
it was but slightly discoloured, except where immediately in contact
with the arsenic. That portion of the poison which had passed into the
duodenum was implicated in a mass of coagulated lymph pretty firmly
adherent to the surface of the membrane ; on raising it, the under sur

face presented numerous bright red bloody points, and a similar appear*
                     the membrane
ance was seen   on   intestinal canal  Ifrodmid  which it had been detached.
Lower down in   the                              not discover anything remark

able. 1 must not omit to observe that in the stomach of the horse,

where no poison had been taken, the viscid adherent mucous secretion
is liable to be discoloured on its free surface by adherent particles of
food, but a little careful attention will distinguish this layer from the

more membranous character of that produced when arsenic has been

given.
   The 6th example which I shall bring forward is that of a horse poi

soned with corrosive sublimate, which was given in solution in gruel.
IThe symptoms in this case were nt least as urgent as in the first case of
poisoning with arsenic.  have already remarked some of the peculiari
ties distinguishing this form of poisoning from that in which a solid irri

tation is applied to the mucous membrane.
   The 7th case is of a very different character from the six pre
ceding, and appears to me to be worthy of particular attention. A
pretty strong solution of oxalic acid, containing, I believe, rather more
than a dram of the crystallized acid, was injected into the stomach of a
dog as in the case of the boiling water. The effect was immediate, and
death took place in about a quarter of an hour, with symptoms which I

did not witness and cannot now relate. Death in this case was more

speedy than I had anticipated, and I was consequently not prepared to
examine the body for rather more than twelve hours after it had taken
place. At the opening of the abdomen I was struck with the dryness of
the peritoneum and the general paleness of the contained viscera. This
was particularly the case with the intestinal canal. The fat of the epi
ploon aud other parts within the abdomen '"is also remarkably firm and
white. The cardiac extremity of the stomiu <i was flaccid and exhibited

a dingy colour even  on its peritoneal   surfute. Internally the mucous
membrane appeared    partially removed,  as if by solution, at and near this

part. This and some other parts which were coloured were of a brown
or slate colour, the other parts of the stomach were pale and partially

translucent. I have already noticed the small opake white scattered

points which 1 have been induced to regard as follicles. Towards the
pylorus the mucus on the surface of the membrane was more abundant
and opake; the intestinal canal was not only of a whitish colour, as 1
have before stated, but the intestines were unusually firm as if filled
                by
                   a
                                                                 a

                                                                          it,
with a pretty stiff pultaceous substance. On opening                           the coat ap

peared greatly thickened, but on examination this appearance was found
                     thick opake white secretion deposited on the mu
to be produced
cous surface, and bearing some similarity to very thick white fur on
232 FIFTH REPORT -- 1835.

the dorsum of a tongue. When this was removed the pale and almost
unchanged villous membrane was distinctly visible. The membrane was
perhaps a little softened. When the secretion just mentioned was not of
an opake whitish colour, it was of a dusky brown of no great intensity.
This colour was distinctly situated on the edges of the valvula; conni-
ventes, and was in all probability produced by the action of the acid on
the colouring matter of the blood with which the edges of the valvules

conniventes had been injected.
    Not only the peculiar appearance which I have just described extended

to all or to the greater part of the intestinal canal, but strong acid pro
perties were manifested in it. This rapid diffusion of this noxious agent
through so large a portion of the alimentary canal forms a striking con
trast with those cases in which arsenic was the poison employed, in which,
as it has already been stated, either no trace of the poison, or such only
as were extremely faint, could be detected at more than a short distance
beyond the pylorus, although the animal survived the administration of
the poison for some hours. It would seem that this extent of the diffu
sion of the noxious agent is commonly the case with acid poisons and

may be regarded as characteristic*.
    The blood in the mesenteric veins was of a dark colour, confirming the

observations of Dr. A. T. Thompson and Dr. Perry of Lausanne. It
also appeared to possess acid properties. In observing the effect of ox
 alic acid on the stomach of the dog, as seen in this case, one can scarcely
fail to be struck with the strong resemblance which it bears to the state
 of the human stomach as often seen in post mortem examinations, more
 especially with respect to the coloured and softened texture of the mu
 cous membrane. The peculiarities in both of these respects have been
 strongly insisted upon as indicative of chronic inflammation. They un
 questionably may be met with when this stale has existed, but if I am

 not greatly mistaken they also occur when this has not been the case,
 and they may with much more probability be referred to the action of
 the juices of the stomach, which vary greatly in their properties, and
 doubtless act not only after death, but even in some degree before life is

 quite extinct.
     No. 8. The last case which 1 have to bring forward is that of poisoning

 by spirits of wine. In investigating the action of poisons, it was next
 to impossible to lose sight of an agent, which not only involves many in
 inextricable misery, but hurries thousands to their graves.

     Rather more than an ounce of strong spirit was injected into the sto
 mach of a dog, as in the case of the experiment with boiling water. The
 effect was immediate. In a minute and a half he vomited mucus and a
little blood; in three minutes he was wandering and falling in different
directions ; in five he fell down and voided a quantity of urine, the
muscles of the abdomen and extremities were thrown into violent action ;

· The mention of this fact to the Medical Section at the meeting in Edinburgh
gave occasion to my frieud Dr. William Thomson to show me a striking illus
tration of this principle in a representation of the effect of poisoning by nitric
acid preserved in the splendid        extensive collection of
In the possession of his father  and                           pathological drawings
                                 Dr.  J. Thomson, Professor    of Pathology.
                 ON THE EFFECTS OF ACRID POISONS.           238

in thirty-eight minutes he appeared to be dead, but he afterwards vomited
a thick slimy fluid smelling strongly of alcohol, and died in forty-two

minutes. Circumstances prevented the examination from taking place
till
is    the   following day, when  the stomach  presented an  appearance which
      well   represented by C.                The mucous    membrane of the
                                 J. Canton.

stomach offered strongly marked and irregular ruga; in the intervals be
tween which the mucous membrane had a corrugated appearance. It was
universally of a reddish brown colour, which, however, was not univer

sally intense. Since making this experiment I have learnt that strikingly

similar effects were produced by the exhibition of strong spirit in an ex
periment performed by my friend and colleague Dr. Roupell, the result of
which he has shown in the second of his splendid fasciculi. The brighter

colour produced in Dr. Roupell's experiment is probably a more genuine

effect of alcohol than the browner colour which I obtained, and which

may have been in part occasioned by some cadaveric change. There
can belittle doubt that the extreme effect of ardent spirit in these cases,
in which it acted as one of the most prompt of the acrid poisons, is only
an exaggeration of that diffused and pernicious irritation of the mucous
membrane of the stomach which spirit-drinkers are constantly keeping

up or renewing.
                                               [ 235 ]

         On Acrid Poisons. By G. L. Roupell, M.D..
A further Report on the subject of Poisons was submitted by
Dr. Roupell to the Meeting. The object of the author was to

advance a step in showing the mode of operation of poisonous
substances. The labours of Dr. Hodgkin and Dr. Roupell had
hitherto been confined to the description and illustration of ap
pearances resulting from the direct application of poisons to the
mucous membranes. Dr. Roupell next proceeded to ascertain
the effect which poisons produce when introduced into the cir
culation, and he concluded his paper with some conjectures
suggested by the facts presented to him as to the probable origin
of certain forms of disease.

   The mode adopted in the experiments about to be detailed
was to inject various agents into the veins ; some actively and
intrinsically poisonous ; others poisonous only by their chemi
cal relation to the circulating fluids. The substances employed
were arsenic, corrosive sublimate, tartarized antimony, muriate
of iron, acetate of lead, and kreosote.

   Two results were common to the employment of all. First, a
fatal termination from the administration of large doses of each ;
and secondly, a complete absence of all symptoms of derange
ment from the employment of smaller doses even of the most
virulent.

    The paper was accompanied by several highly finished draw
ings ; the first of which exhibited" the oesophagus, the stomach,
and part of the duodenum of a dog poisoned by the injection of
arsenic into the veins. The oesophagus was natural in appear
ance. The stomach exhibited the hour-glass contraction and con
tained about an ounce of toughish mucus. The tips of some of
the rugae were reddened at the contracted part, but it differed lit
tle from health at either extremity. The mucous membrane of
the small intestines was acutely inflamed, presenting narrow
bands about two lines in breadth of a bright red colour extend
ing transversely across the intestine, alternating with equal
spaces of apparently sound membrane. This striped appearance
was chiefly at the upper portion of the small intestines, the in
 flammation becoming more diffused in extent and diminishing
in degree as it was traced downwards, and finally terminated at
 the extremity of this portion of the intestinal canal. The details
 of this experiment were as follow. An ounce of a saturated
23G FIFTH REPORT -- 1835.

solution of arsenic, made by boiling distilled water with an ex
cess of arsenious acid and allowing it to cool, was thrown by
means of a small syringe, at two o'clock p.m., into the femoral
vein. For 3 minutes there was no obvious effect, but at the end
of that time vomiting commenced, and a quantity of half-digested
food was thrown off the stomach. The respiration then became
hurried and the animal appeared faint. In 10 minutes there
was great intestinal movement, the abdomen being frequently
and forcibly drawn in. After 25 minutes, vomiting was renew
ed, paralysis of the hind legs came on, and the animal died in 65
minutes. Examination was made on the next day. The limbs
were rigid, the blood was fluid, the lungs were collapsed and
had a rosy tint, but were not inflamed. The peritoneum was red
dish. The appearances of the stomach and small intestines
have been already described. The large intestines contained
solid faecal matter and were quite free from morbid alteration.
There was no apparent change in the mucous membrane of the
trachaea or bronchi, none in the inner lining of the heart, veins,
or arteries, none at least in their larger branches.

    The points of interest in this experiment are, first, the absence
of inflammation in so many tissues with which the poison must
have come into contact ; secondly, its action on the mucous
membrane alone ; thirdly, the predilection shown for the mucous
membrane of the small intestines, and in this instance the limita
tion of its action to that part of the alimentary canal, where it was
intense, the membrane being covered with a layer of tough mu
cus mixed with blood ; fourthly, a circumstance frequently ob
served in cases of poison, the rigidity of the limbs, the blood
remaining fluid.

   A second drawing exhibited also the stomach and part of the

duodenum of a dog poisoned with arsenic thrown into the veins.
In this instance the mucous membrane both of the stomach and
intestines was intensely red, the redness extending throughout
the whole track of the intestinal tube. This experiment was a
modification of the last, the difference consisting in the greater
strength of the animal and a diminution in the quantity of the
poison. An ounce of a saturated solution of arsenious acid was
indeed here also employed, but the solution was filtered ; a thin
floating pellicle of arsenic was removed from its surface. The
solution was thrown into the femoral vein at 12 minutes past 1.
The animal vomited almost immediately after the operation. In
12 minutes solid faecal matter was passed from the bowels fol
lowed by tenesmus ; in 35 minutes dysentery was induced, and
the animal made attempts at vomiting. These symptoms con
tinued with more or less severity about 3 hours, when death took
ON THE EFFECTS OF ACRID POISONS.  237

place. Examination was made 22 hours after ; the lungs were
red throughout and gorged in patches. The stomach externally
was very vascular. The whole of the mucous membrane from
the cardiac orifice of the stomach to the extremity of the rectum
was in the highest possible state of inflammation. The stomach
contained about 4 ounces of a frothy mucus mixed with blood,
and a small quantity of a similar secretion was found coating
the intestines. The inner lining of the urinary organs was red
der than natural. The lining membrane of the heart, large
arteries and veins was in its healthy condition.

   In this case a longer interval between the administration of

the poison and death gave time for the establishment of inflam
mation in more situations, and allowed it to proceed to a greater
extent in those parts which were irritated in the preceding expe

rimAentth. ird drawing exhibited the large intestine of the same

dog, showing the degree of inflammation in that portion of the
alimentary canal.

   It may here be observed that half an ounce of the saturated

solution of arsenious acid produced in several instances no sym
ptom of ailment even when injected into the veins.

    Various experiments were made by Dr. Roupell with corro
sive sublimate in solution. Half an ounce of the liquor hydrar-
gyri oxymuriatis P. L. which contains a quarter of a grain of
 corrosive sublimate, injected as before into the veins, gave rise to
 no apparent inconvenience.

    The injection of a whole ounce containing half a grain of sub
limate produced marked discomfort to the animal, followed by
 severe vomiting and dysentery. But although the symptoms of
 irritation in the abdomen were urgent, and the dejections proved
 the highly inflammatory state of the bowels, yet death did not
 ensue from that quantity.

    Dr. Roupell's next experiment was made with tartarized anti
 mony, with the vinum antimonii tartarizati of the London Phar
 macopoeia. An ounce of this liquid was thrown into the saphaena
 vein of an active terrier dog. The vinum antimonii tartarizati
 contains two grains of tartarized antimony, and rather more than
 a drachm of rectified spirit in the ounce. The immediate effect
 of this injection was to produce intoxication. The animal was
 able to move about ; but his legs failed him, he seemed giddy,
 and his gait was staggering. No other effect was apparent for
  half an hour, and as the dog then seemed but little affected,

  it was left, under the supposition that the spirit had prevented
  the action of the tartar emetic. But when the animal was
  visited some hours afterwards it was found dead and stiff.
238 FIFTH EEPORT-- 1835.

Judging from the appearance of the place where it had been
confined and from the state of the jaws it was evident that
vomiting had taken place. Examination was made next
day. There was no morbid appearance in the brain ; no mor
bid appearance indeed was detected anywhere except in the
stomach, and that afforded a striking contrast to the other parts
of the intestinal canal. These were of their natural white colour,
while the stomach was of a vivid red, showing a high state of

vascularity, great local determination, and intense inflammatory
congestion. As the inflamed part presented no distinguishing pe
culiarity, it was not considered worth while to employ an artist
to copy it. The stomach was inflamed throughout, and the in.
flammation extended from the cardia to the pylorus, not uni
form however in degree, for the redness was greater at the larger
end. This effect is so constant when all parts of the stomach have
been equally exposed to the action of irritants as to induce the
belief that there must be some difference in the vascularity of
the two portions. The author had originally supposed that this
inequality in the action of irritants was probably owing to the
greater rapidity with which all matters passed over this part of
the digestive tube, but he was inclined to believe from the di
minished redness in this case that some other cause, and that
probably a lower degree of vascularity, exists in this situation.
   Although it may be presumed that the alcohol contained in
the antimonial wine had delayed the effect of the tartarized anti
mony, yet it does not appear at all to have mitigated it, as it
could hardly have been supposed A priori that death would have
taken place in a dog from two grains of tartar emetic.
Dr. Roupell states that he made many other experiments
which did not furnish results sufficiently precise to merit enume
ration, or to which the effect produced could be distinctly re
ferred to one cause. Thus when a solution of metallic salts
have been injected into the veins, as the tinctura ferri-
muriatis, or the liquor plumbi acetatis, death has been quick
ly occasioned and the mucous membranes of the abdomen have
presented a marked red appearance ; but he has been unable to
satisfy himself how far such changes were due to the presence of
the metallic oxide, or how far they were the simple consequence
of the acid. Either of these substances would produce one ef
fect, the immediate coagulation of the blood, or would predispose
to that condition. Not indeed that the mere coagulation of the
blood in the veins will occasion any alteration whatever in the
mucous membranes, none at least has been observed from the

injection of the  su"bksrtaenocseotwe,h"ichinthoasthtehesgaprehaateensat  power   in  coagu
lating albumen,                                                           vein.  No   altera
ON THE EFFECTS OF ACRID POISONS.                                           239

tion at all, no symptom whatever has followed the injectton of
half a drachm of kreosote mixed with water. When double that

quantity has been injected pure, death has immediately ensued,
apparently occasioned by the obstruction to the pulmonary cir
culation, the lungs having been found black and gorged with
blood, which seemed composed of minute granules mixed with a
fluid of inky blackness.
   In the present state of animal chemistry, and in reasoning
from so small a number of experiments, any explanation of the
                                                                           But
phenomena here detailed    must be held   Mtoeebetincgo.njecItturwaol.uld
such is in fact one great  object of the                                   ap
pear in the first place that arsenic injected into the veins exerts

an influence primarily on the small intestines, that there at
least its effect as an irritant begins ; and as far as these experi
ments go it would seem that the upper part of the duodenum
was the first to exhibit traces of its action. In the first expe
riment the large intestines were absolutely free from any organic
changej and the stomach but slightly participated. When a longer
period had elapsed, other portions of the gastro-intestinal mucous

membrane have become inflamed, and other and remote parts
have been implicated.     Such a series of effects is seen in cases of
poisoning by arsenic.
                          In these the epigastrium is first referred
to as the seat of derangement; then the whole alimentary canal;
next the skin is the seat of an efflorescence, or rash, the uri

nary organs often participating at the same time. After a
longer or shorter interval a crop of pustules will appear ; later
yet the nervous system is affected ; paralysis comes on.
Whether the bones would eventually beeome affected, as is the
case with the cattle in the neighbourhood of manufactories

where arsenical exhalations are generated, can only be inferred.

In animals thus situated the joints become inflamed, anchyloses
take place, and the bones enlarge and eventually become carious.
The more minute series of vessels through which the fluids may
be required to pass previous to entering into these various struc
tures, as well as a diminished susceptibility in them, and the
necessity consequently for a repetition of the stimuli,may perhaps
offer some explanation of these progressive affections. That
the vascularity excited by arsenic taken into the stomach will
doubtless be allowed to result from some chemical effect. In
flammation would not be set up by the application of a merely
inert powder to a mucous surface from simple contact. The
cravings of hunger of certain Indians are appeased by devouring
clay without exciting inflammation. Nor can the angular shape
of the minute crystals be, as was formerly conjectured, the cause
of the excitement of inflammation, for we know that large quan
240 FIFTH REPORT -- 1835.

titles of pounded glass may be swallowed with impunity. That
the inflammation produced by arsenic when circulated in the
veins is also a chemical effect will no more be doubted than the
Other, as the author conjectures ; for we know that many sub

stances if soluble in the blood may be injected even in large
quantities into the veins. Of this we have instances in the ex

periments of Orfila with the resin of jalap, and other substances.
The operations then we may infer to be chemical, and inflamma
tion to be excited in the part peculiarly susceptible of the action
of the poison either because the chemical changes may take
place in the part, or because the part itself may by idiosyncracy
be disposed to resent that particular stimulus. Whether or not
the system be chiefly on its guard against the introduction of
such substances as tend to increase the disposition of the blood
to coagulate may be matter of future consideration. Certain it
is that metallic oxides and alcohol appear especially to excite
the inflammatory condition. Equally certain it is that the elimi
nation of the albuminous principles in the various forms of gela
tine, albumen, and fibrine must be the means of the growth of
natural tissues and the cause of the formation of many new
structures. Albumen, it is well known, is precipitated by metal
lic salts, decomposition taking place, and a compound result
ing, a combination of the oxide with the albumen. This com
pound, it is true, is again soluble in a liquid containing albumen
in excess ; a provision by which the formation of solid masses,
which we saw in the blood of the dog poisoned by kreosote,
would be prevented, and the fatal result which might otherwise
ensue be obviated. But whether these chemical changes do ac
tually occur, or whether any power of the system to prevent
such an occurrence be called into play, an increased tendency
to coagulation must be presumed to exist ; the circulating fluids
must have become more stimulating ; and the disposition to
a change of structure will have increased. Whether this may
be the simple explanation of such albuminous deposits as are
seen in the kidneys and inner coats of the arteries, especially
in drunkards or in those addicted to spirit-drinking, is here
advanced as appropriate matter for discussion. How far the
agency of galvanism in the case of the oxides may operate
in promoting coagulation may perhaps be more readily con
jectured than shown. But when the coagulation of albumen
is under consideration, it becomes impossible to avoid calling
to mind the extraordinary facility with which that consoli
dation is produced by the electric fluid. And it will be
enough to observe, that in all chemical changes, both of union
and decomposition, this agent is in operation. What the
       ON THE EFFECTS OF ACRID POISONS.  241

changes are which take place it would certainly be important to

ascertain, that such is the fact, however an example or two may
be cited to show. When mercury is extracted from the skin, de
posited from the urine, or found in the bones of those who have
been under a mercurial course, it is met with in the pure metal
lic form, although exhibited in that of a chloride ; and iodine

taken pure, and having passed through the system, is discovered
in the form of iodide or hydriodate.

   Speculations, it was observed, of this sort might be almost in
terminable. Bounds must therefore be set to such conjectures.
Still the state of the blood in cases of poisoning is peculiar both
in cases where the nervous energy has been highly excited, or
when on the contrary it has been suddenly and greatly exhausted ;
where inflammation has been set up locally, or where a general
inflammatory diathesis alone has been provoked. True it is
indeed, and no less curious than true, that blood in the inflamma

tory state is less disposed to coagulate, or rather that coagula
tion takes place more slowly in blood drawn during inflamma
tion than that taken from the vessels in its natural state. The
author expressed the submission with which he laid these re
marks before the Meeting, which, he observed, related only to
those substances unquestionably taken into the circulation, and
expressed his determination to dedicate his time and thoughts
to the further elucidation of the ideas scattered through them,
which he hoped to advance, and render more perfect before the
next meeting of the Association.

1835.

                                                                     W
               [ 243 ]

Report on the  Motions and Sounds of the Heart. By    the
               Sub-committee of the Medical Section.
       Dublin

The Committee having met together several times, and having
                                                     hitherto advanced on the subject
ocof ntshideer'eMdotdioifnfesreannt dopSionuionndss  of the Heart,' proceeded to insti

tute a series of experiments. The subjects chosen for experi
ment were calves, in which animals the heart is sufficiently large
to admit of the motions and sounds being accurately observed ;
and their early age is favourable to a prolongation of the experi
ment, as it has been ascertained that the vitality of the different

organs is more enduring, and less influenced by injuries to the
individual, in animals at a very early age than in those of ma-

turer growth.
The animals were prepared for experiment in the following
manner : a tube, connected with a pair of bellows, was intro
duced into the trachea, and secured there, and the sensibility of
the creature having been destroyed by a blow on the head, arti
ficial respiration was established, by means of which the heart
was enabled to continue its pulsations for a period varying in
different subjects from one hour to two. The Committee had
been unable to procure some of the Woorara poison, which has
been used in similar experiments in London ; and they found
that the employment of prussic acid, in a quantity sufficient to
suspend the sensibility of the animal, destroyed, in a few mi
nutes, the power of motion in the heart.

         § 1 . Experiments on the Motions of the Heart.

   Exp. 1. A calf, two days old, having been secured on its back,

and prepared as above described, the sternum, and a portion of
the ribs on both sides were removed, when the heart was seen
beating strongly, at the rate of 80 beats in the minute. While
still inclosed in the pericardium, the heart was observed to have
a slight libratory motion on its longitudinal axis, which motion,
it may here be remarked, may assist in explaining the pheno
menon of 'frottement,' observed in disease. On cutting open
the pericardium and turning it aside, both the auricular appen
dices were seen to project with a rapid motion upwards, or to
wards the place of the sternum, and immediately afterwards to

rrecede. When coming upwards, they were swollen and soft to
                                                                      2
     244 FIFTH REPORT -- 1835.

     the touch ; when receding, they became hard to the touch, were
     diminished in size, and flattened. Immediately after the reces
     sion of the auricular appendices, the ventricles with a rapid
     motion assumed a somewhat globular form in their middle part,
     which projected upwards, and their apex at the same time was
     considerably elevated. During their continuance in this state

     the ventricles were hard to the touch, and if grasped with the
     hand at the commencement of the movement, they communi
     cated a shock, or impulse, and separated the fingers. When
     the ventricles had remained for a short time in the state just

     described, they suddenly sank downwards, or towards the spine,
     and became elongated, broad and flat, and soft to the touch*
     This succession of motions having been observed for some
     time, a small glass tube was introduced through a puncture into
     the left auricular appendix, and the blood was seen to rise in
                                             ofAthseimaiplaprentduibxe,
     the tube during the recession                                       and  to subside
     during its upward movement.                                         was  introduced

     through a puncture into the right ventricle, and a jet of dark-
     coloured blood was thrown forth during the globular and har

     dened state of the ventricles, and subsided when they became

     flat and soft. A puncture was made in the pulmonary artery,
     close to the right ventricle, and through it a stream of blood

     issued, synchronously with the jet from the ventricle. A tube
     having been introduced, through a puncture, into the left ven
     tricle, and one of the mesenteric arteries having been exposed
     and opened, the jet from the ventricle was observed to precede
     the jet from the artery by an interval easily appreciable. The
     femoral artery was opened, and a similar observation was made

     aa to the interval between the jet from the left ventricle and the
     jet from that artery. Previously to opening the chest of the
     animal the Committee had satisfied themselves that the beat of

     the heart, felt through the sternum or cartilages of the ribs, pre
     ceded the pulse, felt in arteries at different distances from the
     heart, by intervals of time which seemed proportioned to those
     distances ; and they were also satisfied that the jets of blood from
     the femoral and mesenteric arteries were synchronous with the
     pulEsexsp.fe2lt.  in  those arteries.
                           calf having been  placed  on  its  right      side,  a  portion
                       A

     of the ribs on the left side was removed, the sternum, and a
     part of the
     sition, and       cartilages on that side being     left  in their natural      po
                       the pericardium was opened.             was now seen        that,
                                                           It
     when the ventricles assumed their hardened state, their apex
     and a considerable portion of their anterior surface were closely

     applied to the sternum ; and when the hand was interposed be
     tween the latter and the surface of the ventricles, a strong corn

's.
          ON THE MOTIONS AND SOUNDS OF THE HEART.                                     245

pression was exercised on the fingers during each movement of
t' haentveerinotrricsluersfacteo'waorfdtshethveenftrroicnlets,ofisthmeeacnhtestth. e  [By the term

                                                                                      surface corre
sponding to the one called ' anterior ' in the human heart.]
When the ventricles were in their softened state their anterior

surface was sometimes in contact with the sternum, and some
times a little removed from it ; and, from the contemplation of

this and the preceding experiment, the Committee were satis
fied that the situation of the heart in the thorax is affected by
the position of the body ; which observation has been made
also by others. For instance, in the recumbent state on the
back, the heart recedes somewhat from the sternum : if the in
dividual lie upon the face, the anterior surface of the ventricles
is in constant apposition with the front of the chest, the pericar
dium, of course, being interposed. The yielding texture of the
lungs, and the mode of attachment of the pericardium and
great vessels, are such as to allow the gravitation of the heart
to influence its position in different postures of the body.

These experiments were repeated on different animals, and

the observations recorded above were confirmed.

   Exp. 3. A rabbit was stunned, and its heart was immediately
taken out of the body, and placed on the hand, with the anterior
surface of the ventricles upwards. The ventricles continued to
beat for some time, and assumed alternately the forms which
have been described in the first experiment. During the con
tinuance of the globular form, the body of the ventricles was
protruded upwards, and their apex was elevated considerably
from the hand ; and while in this state it was ascertained, by
measurement with a pair of compasses, that the length and the
breadth of the ventricles were diminished. On the collapse, or
softened state of the ventricles taking place, they became longer
and flatter, and their apex sank towards the hand. The heart
was now placed with the posterior surface of the ventricles up
wards, and a globular swelling in their middle part was observed
to alternate with a flattened form, in this aspect also ; but the
apex was not elevated as in the preceding part of the experi
ment.

   Exp. 4. The sternum of a frog having been removed, the
following appearances were observed. The ventricle, having
become swollen, soft, and red-coloured, gradually sank and di
minished in size, and became pale, and hard to the touch ; alter
          in these  appearances with   similar appearances in
nating              manifest from the  colour of both ventricle                       the
auricle.    It was                                                                    and

auricle in their swollen state, that they were then full of blood,
and from their softness, that they were in their diastole. When
246 FIFTH REPORT -- 1835.
they became pale and diminished in size they were in their sy
stole. During the diastole of the ventricle its anterior surface
was prominent, and approached the sternum, while its apex
drooped towards the spine. In its systole, the anterior surface
receded from the sternum, and its apex was slightly turned
upwards. The finger being applied to the ventricle during its
systole, a slight shock or impulse was felt.

   In this experiment, the relations between the sternum and

ventricle, during the diastole and systole of the latter, are nearly
the reverse of those observed in the heart of quadrupeds in the
preceding experiments. In them the ventricles approach the
sternum during the hardened state, or systole, and recede from
it in the softened state, or diastole. This difference depends
upon the dissimilarity of the heart in the warm-blooded and in
the cold-blooded animals, and will be adverted to again.

§ 2. Experiments on the Sounds of the Heart.

Exp. 5. A stethoscope was applied on the sternum over the
heart, in a calf in which artificial respiration had been esta
blished, and both sounds of the heart were distinctly heard :
the first prolonged and dull, the second abrupt and clear. The
sternum and ribs were removed, so that the heart moved free
from contact with any part of the thorax ; and a flexible ear-
tube having been placed on the pericardium, over the ven
tricles, both sounds were distinctly heard. [In the experiments
on the sounds of the heart, with the sternum removed, the

flexible ear-tube was found to be of much service, in preventing
the transmission of the shock or impulse which was felt when
the common stethoscope was used, and which embarrassed the
                   The ear was now applied near to but not touching
observation s .]  both sounds were distinguishable, but feeble. A
the heart, and

small piece of board was placed over the surface of the ventricles,
and kept in contact with the pericardium, and by a stethoscope
applied upon the board, both sounds were heard as distinctly,
and very nearly as strongly, as when heard through the sternum.
The ear-tube was placed on the ventricles, near their apex, and
in this position the first sound was very distinctly heard ; the
second sound indistinctly. When the ear-tube was placed over
the origins of the large arteries, both sounds were heard distinctly,
the second particularly so. The pericardium was distended
with tepid water, and in that state both sounds were heard by

the ear-tube applied to its surface, but not so clearly as before
theExinpje. c6ti.onInoaf  water.
                          calf, the  sternum  and ribs  having  been removed
ON THE MOTION'S AND SOUNDS OF THE HEART.                                    247

as in the last experiment, and the pericardium having been cut
away, both sounds were heard, by the ear-tube applied to dif
ferent parts of the ventricles, in the same manner as in the last
experiment. The great arteries were compressed close to the
heart ; and the character of the second sound was altered ; and
at times it seemed to some of the Committee that the second
sound was lost, the first sound remaining. A fine curved
needle was passed into the aorta, and another into the pulmo
nary artery, beneath the line of attachment of one of the semi
lunar valves in each vessel ; and the needles were passed up
wards, about half an inch, and out again through the respective
vessels, so as to confine a valve in each, between the needle and

the side of the artery. Upon applying the ear-tube over the
origins of the arteries, it was found that the second sound had
ceased, and that a sound resembling the first, and coinciding
with the systole of the ventricles, was still audible. Some of
otthioren'emdduemlwl'absesorspurnoodfl,otnhwgeehCdicohmbmehyaitodtnedebeetthnheohuuegsahuratdlthbdaetufrotahrteeionsthoeuonfidnttjhruoesdt'ufmcirtesiotn,n'
of the needles ; and, towards the termination of the experiment,
it was observed by some of those present, that there seemed to
be a repetition of the sound called 'first', or to be two pro
longed sounds, similar to each other, and which might be cha
racterized as 'rushing' sounds. When the heart was removed
from the body, and the semilunar valves examined, it was found
that one valve in each artery had been confined against the side
of the vessel, so as completely to prevent its descent. [It may

be remarked that this operation can be very easily performed,
            with certainty   of success.]
and almost  The foregoing                            was repeated  on another
                            reexsupletr, im--etnhte  cessation of  the second
   Exp. 7.
calf, and with the same

sound. During the experiment the second sound, somewhat
modified, was heard to recur; and, upon examination, it was
found that the needle which had been passed into the aorta
had slipped out. On its being replaced, the second sound
again ceased. On taking out this heart also, the valves were
                                   as in the
foimd to   have  been confined,      stunned,        last  experiment.      out
                 calf having been                     the  heart was taken
   Exp.   8. A

quickly, and placed on the table. The ear-tube was applied to
the surface of the ventricles while still beating, and at each
systole a sound was heard resembling that called the 'first'
sound : no second sound was audible. When the heart had

ceased to beat, the ventricles were filled with water, and the

heart being held upright, the ear-tube applied to the ventricles ;
and these suddenly compressed with the hand, a sound resem
248 FIFTH REPORT -- 1835.

bling the 'first' sound was heard. Also when the grasp of the
hand wa3 suddenly relaxed, a sound was heard of the same cha
racter as the one preceding. The ear-tube having been applied
to the ventricles in the dead and empty heart, and their internal

surfaces being rubbed against each other, a sound was heard

much resembling the 'first' sound : and the finger having been
introduced into the left ventricle, and being gently rubbed
against the internal surface, a sound, also resembling the 'first*

souAndg,lawssastupbreodaulcloewd.ed to drop from a small height on the se

milunar valves of the aorta, caused a sound having the character
of the second sound ; and when the tube was passed between
the valves, and gently rubbed against their edges, a sound re
sembling the 'bruit derape' was heard.

    The foregoing experiments were frequently repeated, and the
observations were confirmed.

§ 3. Conclusions respecting the Motions of the Heart.

   From the preceding experiments on the motions of the heart

the following conclusions may be drawn. 1. In the heart of
warm-blooded animals the systole of the ventricles follows, im
mediately, the systole of the auricular appendices. 2. During
the systole of the ventricles the auricles are distended by blood
passing from the venous trunks. 3. The ventricles, when
their systole has ended, become relaxed and flaccid, and the
blood passes rapidly, but with little force, from the auricles
intotheir cavities. 4. The auricles are never emptied of blood,
                but little  on their
and contract    observable  only in     contents; an     active   Ifcothne
traction being                        their appendices.       5.

interval between two successive beats of the heart be regarded
as divided into four equal parts, two of those parts may be
allotted to the duration of the ventricular systole, rather less
than one part to the interval between the end of the ventricular
systole and the commencement of the diastole of the appendices,
during which interval little motion is observable in the auricles,

and the remaining portion may be allotted to the diastole and
systole of the auricular appendices. 6. The ventricles, in their
                       front of the thorax, and      'thbeeairt'
systole, approach the  it produce the impulse,   by               contact
and pressure against                             or                of the

heart. 7. The beat of the heart and pulse in the arteries are
synchronous only when the pidse is felt in arteries close to the
heart : in those at a distance the pulses are later than the beat
of the heart by intervals of time proportioned to the distances.
In the heart of the frog, which was examined in the fourth

experiment, the ventricle swelled and approached the sternum
ON THE MOTIONS AND SOUNDS OF THE HEART.  240

in the diastole, and receded from it in the systole. This differ
ence between the movements of the heart in that animal and in
the others which were submitted to experiment, may be ex
plained by considering that in the heart of the latter the swell
ing of ventricles during systole is produced by the thickening
of their muscular fibres, which are then in a state of contraction,
and of which the mass bears a large proportion to the size of
the internal cavities : while, in the heart of the frog, the sides
of the ventricle are thin, and its cavity is large ; and the thick
ening of its sides produced by the contraction of their fibres,
does not counterbalance the diminution of the volume of the
ventricle attendant on the expulsion of its blood.

       § 4. Conclusions respecting the Sounds of the Heart.

    From the experiments on the sounds of the heart it appears
to follow : 1 . That the sounds are not produced by contact of
the ventricles with the sternum or ribs, but are caused by mo
tions within the heart and its vessels. 2. That the sternum and
front of the thorax, by their contact with the ventricles, in
crease the audibleness of the sounds. 3. That the first sound
is connected with the ventricular systole, and coincides with it
in duration. 4. That it is not produced by the friction of the
internal surfaces of the ventricles against each other, as such
friction cannot exist until the blood has been expelled from the
ventricles, whereas the first sound commences with the beginning
of the ventricular systole. 5. That the cause of the first sound
is one which begins and ends with the ventricular systole, and is
in constant operation during the continuance of that systole.
G. That the first sound does not depend upon the closing of the
auriculo-ventricular valves at the commencement of the ventri
cular systole, as that movement of the valves is of an instanta
neous character, and is much shorter in duration than the sy
stole. 7. That it is produced by the rapid passage of the blood
over the irregular internal surfaces of the ventricles, on its way
to the mouths of the great vessels. 8. That the 'bruit mus-
culaire' may contribute to the production of the first sound.
9. That the second sound coincides with the termination of the
ventricular syslole, and requires for its production the integrity
of the semilunar valves of the aorta and pulmonary artery;
That it is caused by the sudden check given by the action of
those valves to the motion of the columns of blood driven to
wards the heart after each ventricular systole, by the elasticity
of the arterial trunks.

   The Committee wish to express their opinion, that although
250 FIFTH REPORT 1835.

much light has heen thrown on the motions and sounds of the
heart by recent investigations, here and elsewhere, the nature
of the inquiry is such as to render it difficult in many instances
to arrive at satisfactory conclusions. They also think that the
subject is one which, from its importance, whether in a practical
view, or as an object of philosophical inquiry, is deserving of
further investigation.

           Signed,

Robert Adams, A.M., Lecturer on Anatomy and Sur
                         Jervis-street Hospital,
       gery, Surgeon to                           &c.
                         M.D., Physician in       Ordinary
Robert Law, A.M.,
to SirT. Dunn's Hospital.
George Greene, A.B., M.D., Fellow of the College of
Physicians, Lecturer on the Practice of Medicine,
and one of the Medical Inspectors of the House
       of Industry.

Ephraim M'Dowell, M.D., M.R.I.A., Censor of the
Royal College of Surgeons, one of the Surgeons
to the House of Industry.
Bruce Joy, M.D., Fellow of the College of Physicians.
John Nolan, M.D., Demonstrator of Anatomy in the
University of Dublin.
Erory Kennedy,· M.D., Master of the Lying-in
Hospital.
H. Carlile, A.B., Demonstrator of Anatomy in the
University of Dublin.
                                  [ 251 ]

Rejyort on the Registration of Deaths. By the Edinburgh
                               Sub-commtttee.

Dr. Altson reported from the Edinburgh Sub-committee ap
pointed in 1834 to consider the subject of registration of
deaths, with a view to a legislative measure as to registration,
(see Proceedings of the Edinburgh Meeting, p. 39,) that they
had drawn up a paper of suggestions on this subject, which
they had proposed to the London Sub- committee as proper
to be submitted to the consideration of those Members of Par
liament who might interest themselves particularly in the Re
                       Bills for                                     intro
gduiscteradti; o--n               England  and Scotland about to be   some
                     that the     London   Committee had expressed

doubt as to the application of these suggestions to the case of
the English Bill, but after some explanations had acquiesced in
the propriety of their being transmitted simpliciter to the gen
tleman who had given notice of his intention to bring into Par
liament the Registration Bill for Scotland.
The Section of Anatomy and Medicine having heard their
paper read, directed that it should be communicated to the Sta
tistical Section, with a request that they would give their atten

tion to the subject ; and if they concurred in the opinion of its
importance, that they would take such steps as they might think
expedient to bring those suggestions (with such modifications
as they might judge proper,) under the view of those Members
of Parliament who might be likely to take a share in the prepa
ration of legislative measures on this subject.

           Suggestions by the Edinburgh Sub-committee.
   There are many questions regarding the external causes of
diseases, and the means of preventing them, susceptible of more
direct application to the good of the public, than most discus
sions on their nature, on which it is hardly possible for indivi
duals, within the sphere of their own experience, to acquire
satisfactory information ; and which have on that account been
hitherto very imperfectly investigated. Every individual case
of disease, or of death from disease, is probably determined by
several external causes, the respective influence of which is very
easily misapprehended ; and it is only by multiplying very
252 FIFTH REPORT -- 1835.

greatly the numbers of observations, that such sources of fallacy,
attending any single cases, can be avoided ; and general laws,
touching the influence of such causes, be satisfactorily deduced.
Thus it is in general only by observing that a particular dis
ease affects a much greater number of those persons who are
known to have been exposed to the agency of a particular ex
ternal circumstance, than of those who are not known to have

been exposed, that   we learn that such circumstance   has  power to
cause that disease.                                     in  civil life,
                      It is very seldom, particularly
that we can have observations, as to the influence of such a

cause, of the nature of the experimentum cruris ; i. e. when
all other circumstances in the condition of the persons observed
are exactly alike, excepting only the presence of that cause in
one set of cases, and its absence in another. But it may always
be presumed that out of a very great number of cases in which
one condition has been uniformly present, all other conditions

must have been applied very variously ; and therefore, by very
greatly multiplying the number of observations, where one
alleged cause has been applied, we may ultimately get rid of
the source of fallacy, resulting from the varying conditions of
each single observation, and from a fair estimate of the efficacy
of the particular cause in question.
Thus also the experience of an individual, even if carefully
preserved, goes but little way in ascertaining the effects of sea
sons, of localities, of occupations, or modes of life on the mor
tality of any given disease, because in every individual case
which has been under his observation, the influence of any one
of these causes must always have been combined with that of
others, which may have determined the result ; but if the expe
rience of a very great number of individuals on the mortality
from that disease, under the influence of one of these causes, is
exhibited at once, it may fairly be presumed that all acciden
tally concurrent causes must have acted so variously on so great
a multitude, that the irregularities thence arising must have de
stroyed one another, and that the influence of permanent and
general laws only will be perceptible in the result. Many at
tempts have accordingly been made by medical men to acquire
more certain information, as to the comparative efficacy of dif
ferent causes of disease and mortality, than the experience of
individuals can supply, by reference to registers of deaths, kept
in different situations, and extending to large numbers of per
sons and to long periods of time. But these attempts have
been in a great measure frustrated, or at least their results ren

dered much less certain and important than they would other
wise have been in this country, by the imperfect and irregular
                 ON THE REGISTRATION OF DEATHS.                       253

manner in which such registers are kept; and it would therefore
                 of  very serious regret for the interests of humanity,
be  matter       of
as  well as          medical science, if any legislative measure in regard

to registration should become a law, without care being taken
to secure that the registers of mortality shall be kept on a uni
form plan in all parts of the King's dominions, and in such a

manner as to afford all the information relative to the causes of

mortality which can reasonably be expected from such records.
Some of the provisions in the Bills for registration in England
and Scotland which were last year brought into Parliament, ap
pear to be well calculated for promoting the purposes here
stated : and in particular the provisions that books for regi
stration be kept by persons of some intelligence in every parish
and every town throughout the country, and that no interment
shall be permitted to take place in any burial-ground withoMt
a certificate of the registration of the death being produced,

appear quite indispensable to the proper regulation of this mat
ter ; but the forms furnished in the two Bills for keeping the
registers of death are materially different, and in several respects
both forms appear essentially defective, and would certainly
fail of affording all the information which it is desirable, and
certainly practicable, for such a register to give.
   The second column of the Schedule C. of the Scotch Bill, in
tended to record the designation and place of abode of the de
ceased person, for greater precision and minuteness should cer
tainly be divided into two, and the rank or employment of the
person, past or present, or that of his father, or of the head of
the family in which he lived, be stated in one ; and the exact
residence, i. e. not merely the town, village, or parish, but the
street and number, or the division of a parish, in the other; and

another column should be added here, for recording the exact
age of every deceased person.
   In like manner in Schedule B. of the English Bill there should

be a column to indicate the exact residence-, and the column to

m" aorrkththaet  rank or profession   of the deceased should state    also
                                                                       for
                 of the head of the  family." It is quite essential,
the purposes that have been stated, to have such a record of the
mortality, not only of each town or parish, but in every occupa
tion or line of life, at every age from infancy upwards, and in
every description of locality (high or low, damp or dry, town
or country, district of a parish, &c.) as shall enable any inquirer,
by examination of registers, to obtain and exhibit information on
these points, for any given time, in the form of tables, and it
is obvious that for that purpose the age, the exact residence, and
some indication of the occupation or rank in life of each inch
    254 FIFTH REPORT 1835.

    vidual must be recorded ; and these are points on which accu
    rate information may in almost in every case be easily obtained
    without the instrumentality of any other agents than those al
    ready contemplated in both Bills.
    Again, it is of the utmost importance to have as accurate in
    formation as can be obtained as to the causes of death ; and
    although there may, for a long time to come, be a deficiency of
    precision in the statements of that kind which may be procured,
    yet it will certainly be right to have a column (as directed in the
    Scotch Bill), and even to divide this into two compartments, for
    this purpose. On one important point information may always
    be had, viz. as to whether the fatal disease was acute or chronic,

    by an answer being required to the query, whether the deceased
    was ill, aud disabled for his ordinary occupation, for less or
    more than six weeks (or 40 days) before death. What occurs
    to the Sub.committee as the best expedient for obtaining further
    information,    that the Bill should contain a clause directing
    ;a
    the names of diseases to be entered according to regulations to
           ;be subsequently issued by the Secretary of State for the Home
    Department. The substance of these regulations the Sub -com
               ; is,mittee think should be as follows

               ifA list of diseases should be furnished to each keeper of regi
                  ofsters, and he should be directed to inquire of each person regi
    stering death, whether he can state, on the authority of medi
                                       ;                       a

                                               is :cal practitioner, that any one of the diseases in that list was the
    cause of death
                    so, that name to be entered under the head

    Ifof acute or chronic disease according to the rule already stated.

       no medical authority can be given for the name of the disease,
    the keeper of the register should be directed to inquire whether
    any prevalent epidemic was the cause of death and
                                                         if ;  ;    not,
    whether the part the body chiefly affected in the disease of
    which the person died was the head, as in apoplexy, palsy,  if
    convulsion or the chest, as in inflammation, or consumption, of
    the lungs, asthma, dropsy with difficult breathing, &c. or the
    lower bowels, as in inflamed bowels, dropsy of the belly, flux,
    jaundice; or the external parts, as in diseases of the joints, limbs,
    or surface of the body. The cause of death then to be entered
                                                     is

    as disease of the head, chest, lower bowels, limbs, or surface  of
    the body and under the head of acute or chronic disease ac

    cording to the rule above stated. By means of such regulations,
    duly enforced throughout the kingdom, the Sub-committee
    think that such information may be recorded as,            thrown by
    future inquiries into the form of Tables, may very greatly eluci
    date the causes, and the means of prevention, at least of the
    most important diseases and this by means of the same agents

-,
ON THE REGISTRATION OF DEATHS.                                               255

as are required to be employed by tbe Bills now in contempla
tion, and without imposing any expense on any party beyond
what the other provisions of the Bills have already done.

   Thus the Schedule to be inserted in the Bill for directing the

mode of registering deaths, so far as the information that is de
sirable for medical inquirers is concerned, would stand thus :

Date. Name Age     Exact Employment,             Disease or cause of Death.
                Residence. or that of the         Acute. Chronic.

                                 head of the
                                        Family.

   As it may hereafter appear practicable and expedient to re
quire for certain times, and in certain places, some further and
more precise information, it seems highly desirable that two or
more blank columns should be directed to be left in every book
kept for the purpose of registration, and that the Executive
Government should reserve to itself the power of hereafter di
recting that those columns shall be filled up in such manner as
may be thought proper, without the expense and loss of time
requisite for a new Act of Parliament.
                 NOTICES

                                                                            OK

             COMMUNICATIONS

                                                      TO THE

BRITISH ASSOCIATION

                                                     FOR THE

  ADVANCEMENT OF SCIENCE;

                     AT DUBLIN IN AUGUST 1835.

                     LONDON:

        JOHN MURRAY, ALBEMARLE STREET.

                                                        1836.
                            ADVERTISEMENT.
The Editors of the following Notices consider themselves respon

sible only for the fidelity with which the views of the Authors are
abstracted.

                         PRINTED BY RICHARD TAYLOR,
                              ED LION COURT, FLEET STREET.
       CONTENTS.

                                                                                                                                                Page.

NOTICES OF LECTURES DELIVERED AT THE EVENING
       MEETINGS OF THE ASSOCIATION.

Professor Powell --The Rev. W. Whewell --Professor Babbaoe--
   Professor Sedgwick -- Dr. Lardner -- Dr. Barry -- Professor Wheat-

stone                                                                      5

NOTICES AND ABSTRACTS OF MISCELLANEOUS
      COMMUNICATIONS TO THE SECTIONS.

       MATHEMATICS AND PHYSICS.

Mr. M'Cullaqh's short Account of some recent Investigations concern          7
   ing the Laws of Reflexion and Refraction at the surface of Crystals.      9
                                                                             9
Professor Powell on certain Points connected with the recent Disco
   veries relative to Radiant Heat                                         11

Dr. Henry Hudson on the Phaenomena usually referred to the Radia           12
                                                                           13
    tion of Heat
                                                                           14
Professor Wheatstone on the Prismatic Decomposition of Electrical
                                                                           14
   Light                                                                   16
The Rev. James Challis on the simultaneous Vibrations of a Cylindrical     17
                                                                           17
   Tube and the Column of Air contained in it                              18
                                                                           18
Dr. Robert Kane's Case of Interference of Sound                            18

Professor Wheatstone on the various Attempts which have been made
   to imitate Human Speech by Mechanical Means

Dr. D. B. Reid on the Construction of Public Buildings in reference to
   the communication of sound

J.Mr. S. Russell's Experimental Researches into the Laws of the

   Motion of Floating Bodies

Mr. W. Snow Harris on a Species of Balance and its Application to

   the Measurement of Electrical Repulsion

Mr. W. Snow Harris on Electrical Attraction
Mr. W. Snow Harris on the Application of the Proof Plane and Tor

   sion Balance to inquiries in Electricity

Sir John Ross on the Aurora Borealis

Mr. R. Mallet on an oeconomic Application             of Electro-magnetic

   Forces to manufacturing Purposes
                                                  a2

                                                                                                                                                       y
iV CONTENTS.

The Rev. James William M'Gauley's Inquiry into the Possibility and   Page.

Advantage of the Application of Magnetism as a Moving Power, with

Remarks on the Nature of Magnetism                                      20

Mr. R. W. Fox on a new Dipping Needle                                   25

Capt. Sabine's Account of Hansteen's Researches in Magnetism     in     25
Capt. Sabine and Prof. Lloyd's Account of Magnetic Observations         25

    Ireland

Mr. W. Snow Harris's Results of three Years and a half hourly Obser

vations of the Thermometer at Plymouth                                  25

Lieut,-Col. Sykes on the Measurement of Heights by common Ther          25

   mometers                                                             2T

Mr. W. Gray and Prof. Phillips's Third Series of Experiments on the
   Quantities of Rain at different Heights in the Atmosphere

Dr. Apjohn on the Wet Bulb Hygrometer                                   27

The Rev. W. Whewell on a New Anemometer                                 29
Mr. F. Baily's Account of the Measurement of the Aberdeen Standard

Scale                                                                   29

                CHEMISTRY.-- ELECTRICITY.

Dr. James Apjoiin on the Specific Heats of the permanently  elastic
   Fluids
                                                                        30
Mr. R. W. Fox on the absence of Magnetism in Cast Iron when in          33
                                                                        33
fusion
                                                                        34
Dr. William Barker on Electric Currents passing through Platina
                                                                        36
Wire                                                                    37
                                                                        38
Mr. Edmond Davy's Account of some Experiments recently made on          40

the Buoys in Kingstown Harbour, with a view to protect from the         41
action of Sea Water the Metals, and especially the Iron-work, at        42
                                                                        44
tached to them

Mr. Edmund Davy on some recent experiments made with a view to
   protect Tin Plate or tinned Iron from corrosion in Sea-water, with

some probable applications.; and on the power of Zinc to protect other

Metals from corrosion in the Atmosphere                          ...

Mr. Edmund Davy on the comparative value of Irish and Virginian To

bacco

Mr. Edmund Davy on Nicotin and some of its Combinations

Mr. M. Scanlan on a Fluid obtained in the manufacture of Pyroxylic

Spirit

Mr. Arthur Connell on the Chemical Constitution of Fossil Scales, as

illustrative of the nature of the Animals from which they have been

    derived

Dr. Robert J. Kane on the Composition and Properties of the Salts of

   Sulpho.Methylic Acid

Dr. Robert J. Kane on some combinations of Protochloride of Platina
   with Protochloride of Tin
                               CONTENTS,                                      V

Professor Johnston on the physical Cause of certain                                 Page.
   ties in Chabasie
                                                     Optical Proper
                                                                                    44

Professor Graham on the constituent Water of certain Compounds. . .           45

Professor Geoohegan on a new Method of testing the presence of Mu             45

   riatic Acid in Hydrocyanic Acid                                            47
                                                                              49
Mr. R. Mallet on Bleaching certain Varieties of Turf for the purpose          51
                                                                              52
   of producing a White Fibre for the manufacture of Paper

Mr. R. Mallet on some singularPhrenomena of Flame from Coal-Gas

Professor Daubeny on the Volatilization of Magnesia by Heat
Mr. H. Hartop on the use of hot air in the manufacture of iron

Dr. Francis Barker's Account of some Chemical Processes                       52

The Rev. Wm. Vernon Harcourt on a Source of Inaccuracy in Ob                  54
   servations of the Dew-point

Mr. Moore on a peculiar Corrosion of a leaden Pipe                            55
Mr. Ettrick on the Safety Lamp                                                56

Professor Graham on the Safety Lamp                                           56
                                                                              56
Mr. W. Snow Harris on a new Electrometer

Report of the Committee appointed to consider the subject of Chemical         56
   Symbols. By Dr. Turner

GEOLOGY AND GEOGRAPHY.

Mr. R. J. Griffith on the Geological Map of Ireland                           56
                                                                              58
Lieut. Stotherd on a small isolated Patch of Granite which occurs in          58
                                                                              59
the County of Cavan                                                           59

Dr. Scouler's Geological Map of the Environs of Dublin                        59
Archdeacon Versciioyle on Eleven Trap Dykes in the Counties of                CI

   Mayo and Sligo, running East and West for great distances                  61
Dr. Jacob on certain Fossil Polyparia found in Alluvial Deposits in the       61
                                                                              62
   vicinity of Limestone Hills
Professor Sedowick and R. I. Murciiison on the Silurian and Cam               C2
                                                                              63
   brian Systems, exhibiting the order in which the older Sedimentary
   Strata succeed each other in England and Wales

Dr. Traill's Notices of the Geology of Spain

Mr. H. Hartop on certain Disturbances in the Coal Strata of Yorkshire
   having a remarkable Relation to existing Valleys ; illustrated by a

   Map and Sections            Fossil Aslacida,                            '
M. Aoassiz on Fossil Fish
                                                 their Zoological and
Professor Phillips on British

Geological Relations. 2. On British Belemnites

Professor Phillips's Notice of a newly discovered Tertiary Deposit on

the Coast of Yorkshire

Mr. C. Lyell's Notice of the Shells in the Suffolk Crag
Tl CONTENTS.

                                                                     P»ge.

Mr. James Smith's Account of Fossil Trees in the attitude of growth in

the Coal Measures near Glasgow                                          63

The Rev. David Williams on certain Fossil Plants from the opposite

Shores of the Bristol Channel                                           63

Capt. Henry Mangles Denham on the Survey of the Mersey and the

Dee                                                                     64

Rev. Wm. Whewell on certain Applications of Physical Science to

Geological Researches                                                   65

Dr. West on the Geographical Position of Cape Farewell                  66

                  ZOOLOGY AND BOTANY.

Professor Aoassiz on the Principles of Classification in the Animal     67
   Kingdom in general, and among the Mammalia in particular             68

Dr. James Drummond Marshall's Observations on the Zoology of the        69
   Island of Rathlin, off the Northern Coast of Ireland                 71
                                                                         71
Lieut-Col. W. H. Sykes's Notices of the Geographical Range of cer
   tain Birds common to various Parts of the World, but principally to  72

India and Europe                                                        72
                                                                        72
Dr. Jacob on the Infra-orbital Cavities in Deer and Antelopes           73
                                                                        73
The Rev. Charles Mayne on a Mode of preserving Echinodermata. .         75

Mr. R. Ball on Pentacrinus Europceus and a Species of Bero'e taken      76
                                                                        76
in Dublin Bay                                       ".                  77

Mr. T. L. Gooch's account of a Toad found alive imbedded in a solid     77
  Mass of New Red Sandstone. Communicated by Mr. Surge
                                                                        79
Dr. Drummond on Gordiiu aquaticus                                       80
Professor Daubeny on the Action of Light on Plants                      80

Mr. William Nicol's Observations on the Structure of Horizontal

    Branches of Coniferee
Dr. West on the Formation of Wood

Mr. C. W. Hamilton's Notice of a Yew found in a Bog in Queen's

   County. (Communicated by Mr. Mackay.)
Dr. Litton's Notice of the Yew at Mucruss
The Rev. Archdeacon Vignoles on Bog Timber
Dr. Barry on the Colour of the Sky as seen from Mont Blanc

Dr. William Schiede's cursory Remarks upon some matters contained
   in a Letter addressed by Mr. William Hamilton to Mr. Packenham.

   (Translated by Mr. Hamilton.)
Dr. Allman on the Mathematical Relations of the Forms of the Cells

of Plants

Mr. Niven on the Formation of a Natural Arrangement of Plants for

a Botanic Garden

Mr. Mackay on Phaenogamous Plants and Ferns indigenous to Ireland

which are not found in England or Scotland
                          CONTENTS.                                     Vll

                      MEDICAL SCIENCE.                                  Page.

Dr. John Houston on the Peculiarities of the Circulating Organs in      81
   Diving Animals
                                                                        83
Dr. John Houston's Account of a Variety of Hydatid (Cysticercu*         84
   tenuicollu) found in the Omentum of an Axis Deer ; with Observa      85
   tions on its Pathological Changes

Professor Harbison on the Entozoa which are occasionally in found the
   Muscles of the Human Subject

Professor Harrison on the Bones which are found in the Hearts of

certain Ruminant Animals                                    ,

Dr. A. Jacob on the Structure of the Mammary Glands in the Cetacea;     86
   with Observations on the Mechanism of the Mouth and Soft Palate,     87

   as applied by the young Animal in sucking                            88

Dr. Corrioan on the Mechanism of Bruit de Souffiet                      92
Dr. Alison on the Condition of Arteries leading to inflamed parts, and

   on the Cause of Death by Asphyxia

Dr. P. D. Handyside's Experimental Inquiry into the different Offices

   ofLacteals, Lymphatics, and Veins in the Function of Absorption..

Dr. Osborne's Observations on the Effects of Cold on different Parts    94
   of the Human Body, and on a Mode of measuring Refrigeration
                                                                        96
Sir James Murray on the Influence of the Artificial Rarefaction or      98
   Diminution of Atmospheric Pressure in some Diseases, and the Ef
   fects of its Condensation or increased Elasticity in others          98

Dr. M'Donnell on the Differential Pulse

Dr. William Stokes on some hitherto unobserved Differences in the
   Effects of Accumulations of Liquids or of Air within the Cavity of
   the Thorax

Mr. R. Adams on Aneurism by Anastomosis                                 99

Dr. Hutton's Abstract of a Case of deficient Development of the right   99
   Hemisphere of the Brain, with Congenital Malformation of the Hip
   and Wrist Joints, and Atrophy of the Members of the same Side. . .

Mr. G. B. Knowles's Description of a Case of Deformity of the Pelvis,

in which the Cesarean Operation was successfully performed              101

Dr. Perry's Propositions concerning Typhus Fever, deduced from nu

merous observations   ,.                                                101
                                                                        104
Dr. Rob. J. Graves on the Use of Chloride of Soda in Fever

Dr. O'Beirne's original Views of the Functions and Diseases of the

Intestinal Canal, &c                                                    105

Dr. Evory Kennedy on Purulent Ophthalmia                                105

Mr. F. L'Estranoe on the Curved Drill Catheter                          106

Mr. Hawkins on Harrington's Patent Electrizer                           106
Dr. Robert Collins's Abstract of a Registry kept in the Lying-in Ho     106

   spital of Dublin
   Viii CONTENTS.
                                                                                                                              Page.

   MECHANICAL SCIENCES APPLIED TO THE ARTS.

   Mr. Eaton Hodgkinson on Impact and Collision                            107
                                                                           107
   Mr. J. S. Russell on the Solid of least Resistance

   Capt. Denham on Vibration of Railways                                   108

   The Rev. Dr. Lardner and C. Vionolles on certain Points in the

      Theory of the Construction of Railroads                              108

   Mr. John Taylor on the Monthly Reports of the Duty of Steam-            108
                                                                           109
      engines employed in draining the Mines of Cornwall

   Professor Stevelly's Description of a Self-registering Barometer. ....

   Mr. A. Pritchard on Microscopes, Polariscopes, &c                       112

   Mr. Hawkins on Saxton's Differential Pulley                             112

   Mr. Cheverton on Mechanical Sculpture                                   112

   Mr. Ettrick's Suggestions for Improvements in Clocks, &c                112

                             STATISTICS.

   Dr. Henry Maunsell on the Statistics of the Dublin Foundling Ho

   spital, and on Child Desertion in the City of Dublin                    113

   Colonel Sykes on Wages in India        -.                               118

   Mr. Babbage's Remarks on the Statistics contained in the Ordnance

   Survey of the Parish of Templemore                                      118

   Inquiries carried on by the Statistical Society of Manchester           119

   General Summary of Schools and Scholars in the Borough of Bury,

   Lancashire, in July 1835                                                121

   List of Inquiries adopted by the Statistical Society of Manchester con

   cerning the Means existing for the Religious Instruction of the

   Working Classes in Manchester                                           123

   Dr. Cleland on the Glasgow Bridewell or House of Correction             123

   Mr. E. Halswell on the Causes which affect the Proportions between

   the Numbers of Accusations and Convictions in the Metropolitan Di

   strict, and on the Effects which well-managed Houses of Correction

   have in repressing Crime                                                1 24

   Mr. Fox on the Punishment of Death in Prussia, Norway, and Bruns        124
      wick                                                                 125

   Mr. W. R. Greg on the Social Statistics of the Netherlands

   Dr. Dickenson's Account of the Normal School in Dublin established

   by the Commissioners of Education                                       125

   Mr. Babbaoe on Cooperative Shops for the purpose of supplying Work      125
      men with the Necessaries of Life                                     125

   Lieut. -Col. Sykes on the State of Education in the Deccan

   Dr. D. B. Reid on the extension of the Study of Physics                 )26

\
                             NOTICES

                                                               AND

         ABSTRACTS OF COMMUNICATIONS

                                                                             TO

THE BRITISH ASSOCIATION

                      FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF SCIENCE,

                                                                             AT

             THE DUBLIN MEETING, AUGUST 1835.

[From the London and Edinburgh Philosophical Magazine and Journal of Science.]

rrHE contributions to science received at the annual meet-

 -*, ings of the British Association are of two classes, -- the one
consisting of reports and researches executed under its im
mediate impulse and direction, the other of miscellaneous
communications, the authors of which choose this method of
bringing new facts or theories into notice, and of submitting
them to public discussion.

    Without undervaluing in any degree the latter class of con
tributions, the Association deems it advisable to deal with
them in such a manner as to avoid any interference with the
Transactions of other Institutions : with this view it has dis
couraged the production, at its meetings, of papers in a state
for publication in such Transactions ; and whilst it prints at
full length those reports and researches which are directly
its own, it has refrained from publishing the miscellaneous
communications in any other form than that of notices and
abstracts.

   At the last meeting it was determined to draw the line of

distinction still more completely, and at the same time to af
ford a speedier opportunity of publishing views brought for
ward for the sake of early notice and discussion, by transfer
ring the abstracts of all the miscellaneous papers communi
cated to the Meeting from the annual Report of the Association
to the periodical journals of science.

   As in regard to the number and value of scientific contri

butions, so in other respects the meeting at Dublin fulfilled
2 BRITISH ASSOCIATION. 1835.

all the expectations which had been entertained of its success :
even before it assembled there its members had received such

unusual proofs of the esteem in which the Association was
held as could not but add to the spirit and animation of the
meeting. The tribute to science paid by an eminent mer
chant of Liverpool (Sir John Tobin) in devoting one of the
finest steam-boats in that port to the service of its members,
and accompanying them in three voyages as their host ; the
kindred spirit evinced by the Directors of the Dublin and
Kingstown rail-road, who provided gratuitous conveyance

from the coast to the capital; the splendid entertainments
given in the Zoological and Botanic Gardens ; the hospitali-
. ties of the Royal Colleges of Physicians and Surgeons, and of
that illustrious academical body on which rested the chief
charge and credit of receiving the Association ; the partici
pation in these festivities of the Representative of the Sove
reign, and the happy manner in which he seized the occa
sion of conferring a public mark of distinction on the highly-
                                                              who held office as one
gifted  mathematician and astronomer                          addition to these open
of the
        Secretaries of the Meeting ; -- in
testimonies of respect for scientific pursuits, the silent under
current of refined and invisible hospitality by which the guests
eonf hIarenlcaendd, --foaulnl dthetsheeiwr eerexpienndseeesd  contracted and their cheer
                                                              but collateral circumstances

attending that meeting, and managed in such a manner as to
interfere with none of its scientific labours ; but they were
not ineffective in kindling a warmth of feeling by which the
powers of the mind are capable of being invigorated even in
the pursuit of abstract truth. The                                        calm, too, which the
meeting seemed to communicate,                                m--otrhael  suspension of every

feeling but that  --oftha isc,ominmolinkeinmtearnenster,inwparsombuottinang  the know
ledge of nature,                                                             incidental
circumstance, yet it raised thoughts of the usefulness as well
as the dignity of those studies which possess a charm not only
to elevate the individual but to bind the species together.
Reflections of this kind, which crowd upon the mind on
such occasions, and which the meeting at Dublin excited in
a peculiar degree, contribute their share to that general effect
of which Professor Hamilton gave so eloquent a description
in his preliminary address, whilst asserting the power of so

ftcehiaeell,s"seycsmraepitdatrthehyteireoPmvroeefrnetstshsoero,mf so"csitteonpgcreeivt.haeter"nmWoowem, emntehtseatt,owfw"eeemxsepareytaiokhn,erweine
after the better think and act and feel alone. The excitement
with which the air is filled will not pass at once away ; the
influences that are now amongst us will not, we trust, be
BRITISH ASSOCIATION. -- 1835.                                   3

transient, but abiding : these influences will be with us long ;
let us hope that they will never leave us : they will cheer, they
will animate us still, when this brilliant week is over ; they
will go with us to our separate abodes, will attend us on our
separate journeys ; and whether the mathematician's study,
or the astronomer's observatory, or the chemist's laboratory, or
some rich distant meadow, unexplored as yet by botanists, or
some untrodden mountain top, or any of the other haunts and
Ihomes and oracular places of science, be our allotted place of

labour till we meet together again, am persuaded that those
influences will operate upon us all, that we shall all remember
this our present meeting, and look forward with joyful expec

tation to our next reassembling, and by the recollection and

the hope be stimulated and supported."
Highly, however, and justly as we prize the social and sym
pathetic ardour of mind which these meetings spontaneously
produce, we must not confine our views to this object in such a
manner as to propose to dispense with more direct endea
vours to effect the advancement of science. On this subject
some remarks were offered by Mr. Harcourt, at the close of
his statement of the Recommendations of the Committee and

of the appropriation of certain sums to scientific purposes.
After adverting to some remarkable instances which had
come to his knowledge of the actual effect of these meetings
in awaking the dormant spirit of science, and enumerating
among the indirect benefits that arise from them the means
which they supply to persons whose merits have been ob
scured by accidental circumstances, of vindicating their own
rightful claims, and of repelling that false and partial criti
"cism by which genius had in former days been too often de

pressed, he proceeded to say, After all, every important
advantage which these meetings possess, and, above all, the
maintenance in them of the true principles and character of
philosophical investigation, will entirely depend on the con
tinued presence and concurrence of the master-spirits of
science ; and it must be remembered that these are the per
sons whose attendance, from the value of their time, it is

Imost difficult to secure. From the first commencement of

the Association have always held that there is but one mo

tive strong enough to tear those persons from their retire
Ifments and to bind them to these annual meetings.
                                                    you
here offer to them the direct and acknowledged means of ad
vancing the science to which they are attached, if you assist
the astronomer in effecting the reduction of the elements of

his calculations, if you establish for the meteorologist a
system of conjoint and extended observations from which the
b2
4 BRITISH ASSOCIATION. 1835.

laws of the atmosphere may be deduced, --with such objects
before them, the greater mastery they may possess in science
the more eager will be the interest which they take in your
meetings, and the more probable it is that you will enjoy the
advantage of their counsel, and the communication of their
spirit, than which there is nothing more essential to give life
and consistence to your proceedings."
This we are persuaded is the vital principle on which the
permanence of the Association depends. Should it ever be
lost sight of, should the resources of the institution come to
be expended chiefly on subordinate objects, and its recom
mendations directed to little points, instead of the great
questions which interest men of comprehensive views in the
different departments of science, the consequence will be that
the meetings will be left entirely to men of second-rate ac
quirements, and that they will speedily fall into contempt.
We have reason to hope that the next volume of the Trans
actions of the Association, which we are informed will soon

appear, may bear evidence of a continued attention to this
principle ; in the mean time the answer contained in Mr.
Hamilton's address to the objection of a writer in the Edin
burgh Review against the exercise of the influence of the
Association in obtaining from the Government a grant of
money for the reduction of observations on the sun, moon,
and planets, made at Greenwich by Bradley and his succes
sors, sufficiently shows how judiciously it has commenced its
operations. The astronomer royal of Ireland informs us that

the particular undertaking thus objected to has afforded the
most unmixed gratification to those cultivators of science
who are interested in the progress of the highest department
of astronomy,                                     of Bessel to the
following effect  an"d  he  quotes the opinion   these things toge
                            me, considering all
                  :     To

ther, it appears to be of the highest moment towards our fu
ture progress in the knowledge of the solar system, to reduce
into catalogues, as conveniently as can be done, according to
Ione common system of elements, the places of all the planets

observed since 1750 ; than which labour believe that no
other now will be of greater use to astronomy."
We must refer to the Reports of the Association for
further proofs, in discussions of tables of the tides and other

important investigations, that there is no want of enlarged
views in its Recommendations and in the expenditure of its
now considerable funds. As long as this continues to be the
case we have no doubt that, meet where it will, its meetings
will attract a large proportion of those M'ho are sincerely
devoted to science for its own sake, and who have a just un
   LECTURES DELIVERED.                                                          5

derstanding of the spirit in which it is to be pursued and
the methods by which it is to be advanced.

   Nor does there seem to be any reason to fear that the want
of a locality for such assemblages will be found to place an
impediment in their way. At the late meeting there were
deputies present from five of the chief commercial towns in
England to invite the Association and to offer suitable ac
commodation in their respective towns. Bristol stood first
on the list of those from which invitations had been received

on former occasions ; and its situation being also far re
moved from the districts which the Association has hitherto
traversed, it was determined to hold the ensuing meeting in
that city in August next. The highly interesting and impor
tant country which forms the South-west of England will be
conveniently embraced by this meeting, and the zeal which
public bodies uo less than individuals have shown to facilitate
and encourage the arrangements for concurs with the high
reputation of the men science connected with Bristol, to
hold out the confident expectation of successful result.
                         of
                                              a it,

NOTICES OF LECTURES DELIVERED AT THE EVEN
          ING MEETINGS OF THE ASSOCIATION.

   Professor Powell gave lecture on the phaenomena of prismatic
dispersion, in relation to the undulatory theory of light.

   After giving general view of the phaenomena, and particular de
scription of the black lines in the spectrum whose position taken as

  measure of the refractive and dispersive powers of substances, Pro
fessor Powell proceeded to state the results of some recent labours
   a                                                 It is
                        a                                         a
                                                                            is
a

undertaken by himself in order to ascertain whether the undulatory
theory of light, which admitted to explain almost every fact in
   is
                        a
optical science except dispersion, could be applied to explain that
also. By reducing to calculation formula suggested to the author
by Professor Airy, as arising out of the researches of M. Cauchy,
and expressing a relation between the refractive index of a ray and
the length of the wave,
                         a      very close agreement was found be

tween the numbers which result from the formula and those observed
by Fraunhofer for ten different media, viz. four kinds of flint glass,
three of crown glass, water, oil of turpentine, and solution of pot
ash. Professor Powell engaged in the arduous labour of testing
the applicability of M. Cauchy's modification of the undulatory
theory to the explanation of the phaenomena of prismatic disper
sion, by individual examples and he states, that as far as the calcuis
       it ;
               by
lations have been executed, appears that even the extreme case of
that highly dispersive substance oil of cassia comprehended with
at least considerable accuracy
                                the theory.          appears, then, that
 6 BRITISH ASSOCIATION. 1835.

 one of the greatest of the remaining objections to the reception of

 the undulatory theory is at least partially removed.

    The Rev. W. Whewell stated the progress which had been made
 during the past year in Observations of the Tides, not only round the
 coasts of Great Britain and Ireland, but also under the direction of
 the Governments of Sweden, Denmark, Russia, Spain, France, Hol
 land, and the United States. The dependence of the velocity of the
 tide wave on the depth of the ocean channels was pointed out as an
 instance of the collateral benefits arising from the advancement of
 any one branch of knowledge; for, in consequence of the perfection
 of this branch of hydraulical science, it might be possible for geo
 logists to acquire some valuable information concerning parts of the

 ocean where no plummet ever sounded and no line was ever cast.

    Mr. Barb age explained his views of a method of Natural Chrono-
 metry derivable from an examination of the annual layers of growth
 in wood. Considering these layers as liable to vary in thickness
 according to favourable or unfavourable seasons, and any series of
 them in one tree capable of being coordinated with a contempora
neous series in another, by means of these irregularities, it was
 shown to be possible to arrive at an accurate knowledge of the pe
riod of existence of trees in which life had become extinct, or which
had been long enveloped in peat bogs, provided a sufficient number
of trees of intermediate periods, which had been subject to the same
irregularities of annual growth, could be examined. The bearing of
the inquiry on historical records of seasons and on geological specu
lations was pointed out, and the process which it would be most con
venient to pursue in the application of the method clearly indicated.

   Professor Sedgwick presented a general review of the labours of
the Geological Section during the week, illustrated by a section of
the Cumbrian and Silurian systems of rocks.

    Dr. Lardner delivered a lecture on Locomotive Engines, illus
 trated by drawings and working models.

   Dr. Barry gave an account of his ascent of Mont Blanc in

1834, illustrated by drawings.

    Mr. Babbage described a remarkable Phaenomenon in the Sea on
the coast of Cephalonia (details of which had been communicated to
him by Lord Nugent), which appeared to indicate the existence of a
large cavity below the bed of the sea, and communicating therewith.

    Professor Wheatstone exhibited his Speaking Machine, and ex
plained the principles of its construction, and the progress which
had been made in the mechanical imitation of the human voice.
NOTICES AND ABSTRACTS OF MISCELLANEOUS COM
             MUNICATIONS TO THE SECTIONS.

                 MATHEMATICS AND PHYSICS.

Professor Hamilton gave a sketch of his new theory of logo-
                               of   haighsiemr ilaorrdearcsco;u(nsteeoTfrahnissancetiwonstheoorfythoef
logues  and    other numbers
Royal   Irish   Academy ;)    also

varying orbits.
He likewise explained to the Section the method of investigation
pursued by Mr. G. B. Jerrard, for accomplishing the solution of
equations of the fifth or of higher degrees.

A short Account of some recent Investigations        concerning the Laws of
                                                     of Crystals. By Mr.
   RMe'fCleuxliolangha.nd Refraction at the surface

   To understand the nature of the general problem which a com
plete theory of double refraction requires to be solved, let it be sup
posed that a ray of light is reflected and refracted at the separating
surface of an ordinary medium and a doubly refracting crystal,
the light passing out of the former medium into the latter. This
limited view of the subject is taken merely for the sake of clearness
of conception ; since we might suppose that both media are crystal
lized, without increasing the difficulty of the problem. The question,
it is obvious, naturally divides itself into two distinct heads. The
first relates to the laws of the propagation of light in the interior of
either of the two media, before or after it has passed their separating
surface ; and this part of the subject has been fully treated, accord
ing to their different methods, by MM. Fresnel and Cauchy. The
second division of the subject had been left completely untouched.
It relates to the more complex consideration of what takes place at
the separating surface of the media, the laws according to which
the light is there divided between the reflected and refracted rays,
including a determination of the attendant circumstances indicated
by the wave theory, with regard to the vibrations in the reflected
and refracted rays. In the case above mentioned, when the incident

light is polarized, there are four things to be determined, namely,
the magnitude and direction of the reflected vibration, with the mag
nitudes of the two refracted vibrations. The four conditions neces

sary for this determination are furnished by two new laws, which
could not be easily stated without entering too much into detail.
The results, applied to determine the polarizing angle of a crystal
in different azimuths of the plane of reflection, agree very closely
with the admirable experiments of Sir David Brewster on Iceland
spar. In the course of these experiments it was observed that the
polarizing angle remained the same when the crystal was turned half
8 BRITISH ASSOCIATION. 1835.

round (through an angle of 180°), although the inclination of the re
fracted rays to the axis of the crystal was thereby greatly changed.
This remarkable fact is a consequence of the theory. After some
complicated substitutions in the primary equations, the value of the
polarizing angle is found to contain only even powers of the sine or
cosine of the azimuth of the plane of reflection, and therefore a
change of 1 80° in the azimuth produces no change in the polarizing

angle.

The two new laws above mentioned, on which the theory de
pends, occurred to the author in the beginning of last December -r
but, owing to an oversight in forming one of the equations, they
were not fully verified until the beginning of June.
   In this theory it is supposed that the vibrations of polarized light
are parallel to the plane of polarization, according to the opinion of
M. Cauchy. This is contrary to the views of Fresnel, whose theory
of double refraction obliged him to adopt the hypothesis that the
vibrations are perpendicular to the plane of polarization. It is
further supposed, that the density of the vibrating aether is the same
in both media ; and this hypothesis of a constant density in different
media, which was found necessary for the theory, seems to accord,
better than the supposition of a varying density, with the phaenomena
Ifof astronomical aberration.

       we conceive the three principal indices of refraction for the
                                                  solution of a.
crystal  to become equal, we  shall obtain  the                   ovcecruypiseidm,p--le
         the general problem    with which    we   have been
case of
the case of an ordinary refracting medium, such as glass. This
simple case, it is well known, was solved by Fresnel. The fore
going theory leads to a simple law, expressing all the particulars of
the case, but differing with regard to the magnitude of the refracted
vibration, from the formulae of Fresnel. The law may be stated,

by saying that the refracted vibration is the     rbeesiunlgtanttheodfiathgeonianlcidoefnta
and reflected vibrations ; the first vibration
parallelogram of which the other two vibrations are the sides, just
as in the composition of forces. The plane of this parallelogram is
the plane of polarization of the refracted ray. It is to be remem

bered, that the vibrations in each ray are perpendicular to the ray
itself, and parallel to its plane of polarization.

   This simple case has also been considered by M. Cauchy, in a
short paper inserted in the Bulletin Universel, torn. xiv. ; but it does

not seem to have been observed by any one that his solution is er

roneous. His formula for light polarized parallel to the plane of
reflexion, is that which belongs to light polarized perpendicular to
the plane of reflexion and vice versa.

  Mr. Whewell read his report on the Mathematical Theories of

Electricity, Magnetism, and Heat.
   [This report will be printed in the next volume of the Transac

tions of the Association.]
                  TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                                              9

On certain points connected with the. recent Discoveries relative to

                 Radiant Heat. By Professor Powell.

In this communication the author expressed his particular satis
faction in finding that M. Melloni (in his second
a repetition of the experiment originally made by       memoir)   describes
                                                        him, and  recorded
in the Philosophical Transactions, 1 825, with perfect success, by
means of his. extremely delicate apparatus. The confirmation is
the more complete, as the experiment was made by M. Melloni with

a different view.

  It is thus now established beyond question, that luminous hot
bodies are sending out two distinct sorts of heat, or two distinct

heating agents, at the same time, differing in their properties and
mode of operation.
Hence the whole series of results of M. Melloni must be inter
preted with reference to this distinction, and possibly the considera
tion of it may remove some of the apparent anomalies.
is tAhniso, t--heWr hqeutheestri,oninotfhiemppoorltaarnizcaetiownhicahppahraastuosc,cusrurpepdostinogthoeneaugtlhaosrs
or pile of mica heated, it will radiate the same quantity of heat to
 the other in the two                              The
' a mathematical one,   rectangular positions.  degree  question is   purely
                        and has been in some             considered,   at the
author's suggestion, by Mr. Murphy, of Cambridge. The integra
tion has not been completed, but Mr. Murphy thinks it clear that
there will be a difference.

On  the  Phcenomena     uHsuudaslloyn,reMfer.rDed., tMo .tRhe.I.RAa.d,iaDtiuobnlino.f Heat.  By"'

               Henry

   For   the purpose    of repeating Leslie's experiments  with variations
of the   temperatures    of the surface of the mirror and
                                                           of the thermo
meter, the author procured a parabolic zinc mirror with a hollow
back, so that its surface could be heated or cooled by filling it with
hot or cold liquids.
   The following are the
                          results obtained : 1st, Whatever be the                            tem
perature of the room, if  the mirror and canister be at the same                             tem

Ifperature also, there is no effect produced by either the metallic or
the varnished side of the canister.   2nd, the          canister (alone)                     be
above the temperature of the air,    the varnished        side produces                        a

greater heating effect than the metallic side, in the proportion of
Ifabout           3rd,  the canister (alone) be belotv the temperature

of the
         12 : 1.  the varnished side produces a greater cooling effect
         room,
Ifthan the metallic in the same proportion of about 12 : 1. 4th, the
mirror be heated considerably (say to 200° Fahr.), and the thermo
meter so arranged that    both balls are
                          in the focus),  equally warmed by the                              mir
ror (one of them being                    a canister (at the same                            tem
perature as the room) produces a cooling effect on the focal ball,
and the varnished side displays its superior efficiency. 5th, The
mirror and thermometer being as in the last experiment, the canis
10 BRITISH ASSOCIATION. 1835.

ter was heated 10 or 12 degrees beyond the temperature of the
room. The effects were now found to vary according to the di
stance of the canister from the mirror. At a short distance it acted

as a cold body, and the varnished side most efficient; on increasing

the distance, the effect diminished, and at a certain point altogether

ceased ; the thermometer marking zero, whether the varnished or
metallic side was towards it ; but on increasing the distance, the

canister began to act as a warm body, and again the varnished side

displayed its superiority. Cth, When the focal ball (merely) was

cooled by the evaporation of water, or even of aether, neither side of

the canister produced any change in the effect. 7th, When the

focal ball was cooled 27° of Fahrenheit (by evaporation of aether),
and the canister cooled 16° of Fahrenheit (being of course 11°

warmer than the focal ball), the focal ball was now cooled more

than previously, as if the canister were (comparatively) a cold body.
The rapid evaporation of the aether makes these experiments trouble
some. The author then pointed out that no theory of the emission of
rays of heat could account for the phasnomena, unless rays of qold
were also admitted ; and called attention to Professor Leslie's theory,

as deserving further investigation, without, however, drawing any

conclusion from the experiments, excepting that they could only be
accounted for on some theory of undulations. He then suggested,
as one cause of the different radiating powers of surfaces, their dif

ferent capacities for heat. The two surfaces being at the same tem

perature and in the same medium (of a lower temperature), may be

considered to have the same tendency to attain the common tempe

rature of the medium, and may therefore be expected to give off the
same portion of their excess of temperature, and consequently quan
tities of heat proportional to the capacities of the surfaces ; taking
the latter in the physical sense of having some definite thickness,

which may be different in different substances.
Dr. Hudson then mentioned a few experiments
                                                                question of the  m"addierewctithfrMeeeltlroannis's
mthiessrimono-omfuhlteiaptli"ert,hrroeuspgehctrinogck-sthaelt,    rock-crystal,  and alum. Having

removed the crystals from the opening in the screen, he moved the

canister (containing hot water) entirely out of the axis of the ther-
moscope, so that the needle stood at zero. He then placed the
crystals (successively) in the opening of the screen, and found the

effects on the needle to be instantaneous, and also to follow the

same order in the different crystals as to its amount, as when the

canister was in the axis of the thermoscope, so as to make it question
able whether the effects in the latter case were not (also) wholly
owing to the conduction of heat through the crystals. He alluded
to these experiments merely as indicating a method of determining

the point in question : as, if there be (contrary to Melloni's deduc
tions) no direct transmission of simple heat, we may expect to find
the same results produced by a given source of heat, whether in or
out of the axis of the instrument, provided the canister and the cry
stal are equally distant, and their surfaces equally inclined to each
TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.  11

other in both cases. In the experiments with the mirror, he had
used a differential thermometer containing aether instead of sulphuric
acid, as being much more delicate in its indications of heat ; and
suggested its being made still more sensitive by the use of other
liquids, having himself succeeded in making one containing con

densed sulphurous acid gas.

On the Prismatic Decomposition of Electrical Light. By Professor
                                         Wheatstone.

   The following is a brief notice of the principal results stated in this
communication: 1. The spectrum of the electro.magnetic spark
taken from mercury consists of seven definite rays only, separated
by dark intervals from each other ; these visible rays are two orange
lines close together, a bright green line, two bluish green lines
near each other, a very bright purple line, and, lastly, a violet line.
The observations were made with a telescope furnished with a mea
suring apparatus ; and to ensure the appearance of the spark inva
riably in the same place, an appropriate modification of the electro
magnet was employed. 2. The spark taken in the same manner
from zinc, cadmium, tin, bismuth, and lead, in the melted state,
gives similar results ; but the number, position, and colours of the
lines varies in each case ; the appearances are so different, that, by
this mode of examination, the metals may be readily distinguished
from each other. A table accompanied the paper, showing the po
sition and colour of the lines in the various metals used. The
spectra of zinc and cadmium are characterized by the presence of a
red line in each, which occurs in neither of the other metals. 3. When
the spark of a voltaic pile is taken from the same metals still in the
melted state, precisely the same appearances are presented. 4. The
voltaic spark from mercury was taken successively, in the ordinary
vacuum of the air-pump, in the Torricellian vacuum, in carbonic
acid gas, &c., and the same results were obtained as when the expe
riment was performed in the air or in oxygen gas. The light, there
fore, does not arise from the combustion of the metal. Professor
Wheatstone also examined, by the prism, the light which accompa
nies the ordinary combustion of the metals in oxygen gas and by

other means, and found the appearances totally dissimilar to the
above. 5. Fraunhofer having found that the ordinary electric spark
examined by a prism presented a spectrum crossed by numerous

bright lines, Professor Wheatstone examined the phaenomena in dif
ferent metals, and found that these bright lines differ in number and

position in every different metal employed. When the spark is taken

between balls of dissimilar metals, the lines appertaining to both are
 simultaneously seen. 6. The peculiar phaenomena observed in the
 voltaic spark taken between different metallic wires connected with

 a powerful battery were then described, and the paper concluded

 with a review of the various theories which have been advanced to
12 BRITISH ASSOCIATION. -- 1835.

explain the origin of electric light. Professor Wheatstone infers
from his researches, that electric light results from the volatilization
and ignition (not combustion) of the ponderable  matter of the con
ductor itself; a conclusion closely resembling   that arrived at by
Fusinieri from his experiments on the transport of ponderable mat

ter in electric discharges.

On  the  simultaneous Vibrations  of a Cylindrical Tube and the  Column
                                   By the Rev. James Challis.
         of Air contained in it.

    Mr. Challis, in his report on the Analytical Theory of Hydrody

namics, and elsewhere, has expressed the opinion that, to complete

the theory of musical vibrations in a cylindrical tube, it is necessary
to take into account the vibrations of the tube itself. In this com

munication he states some results which he has arrived at theoreti

cally, respecting the kind of influence the tube will exert on the

aerial column.

    It is assumed that the tube is capable of vibrating so that its par
ticles move in planes perpendicular to the axis, with the same mo
tion in all directions from the axis in the same transverse section.
Then, if the vibrations of the tube be of very small extent, and its
diameter small, compared with its length, the following are the prin
cipal mathematical results respecting the motion of the air, so far as
it is consequent upon the vibrations of the tube.

    1. The motion of the particles situated on the axis will take place
in the direction of the axis, and will be nearly the same as if an im

pulse were originally given in this direction, and the propagation

were rectilinear.

   2. At all points of the same transverse section, the motion, esti

Ifmated in a direction parallel to the axis, will be nearly the same.
     3. the tube be made to vibrate isochronously, and so as to con
tain, at equal intervals along its length, nodal sections and sections

of maximum vibration, it will produce in the fluid vibrations of the
same duration, with points of quiescence and of maximum vibration
at intervals corresponding to vibrations of that duration in air.

   4. But unless the nodal sections of the tube be fixed, the duration
of these simultaneous vibrations will not be permanent till the in

tervals between the nodal sections become the same in the tube as

in the column of air ; and then a nodal section of the tube is nearly
coincident with a section of maximum vibration of the fluid.

    From these results it follows that there are certain transverse vi
brations of the tube which will impress on the fluid column the same
kind of motion as it is known can be given to it by vibrations ex
cited near one extremity of the tube when the other is open. Ma
thematicians have succeeded in' satisfactorily representing the cir
cumstances of the motion in the latter case of disturbance, by as
suming, from experiment, that the open end is a position of maxi
mum vibration, or nearly so ; but hitherto no distinct cause for this
           TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                              13

fact has been assigned. Mr. Challis thinks it may be shown mathe
matically that the aerial vibrations, excited at the extremity of the
tube, and propagated along its interior, will put it into the state of
vibration, which, as appears from the foregoing results, will produce
an effect the same in kind as that observed. But to what degree the

phenomenon may be attributed to this cause, can be learnt only from

experiment, by ascertaining whether the vibrations of the tube have
any considerable influence on the intensity of the musical sounds.
The following fact seems to favour the idea of a sensible influence.
A sound produced under glass, (for instance, the ticking of a French
clock under a glass covering,) is louder than when the glass is re
moved, plainly by reason of the internal reflexions and the propa
gation of the vibrations along its surface, which cause it to vibrate
so as to act with increased effect on the external air. It is not easy
to discern that the glass vibrates, but the increase of sound is proved

to be owing to this cause, when, on pressing the glass with the palms

of the hands, the intensity is diminished. This experiment may
suggest the means of detecting the influence of the vibration of a
solid, in other instances of a similar nature.

Case of Interference  ofMS.oRu.nId..A.,  By     Robert  Kane,  M.D.,

                                           &c.

Among the experimental proofs of the neutralization of waves,
suggested by Sir John Herschel in his interesting paper on the ab
sorption of light, is one which consists in transmitting
system of canals, waves of sound, emanating from one           through a
                                                               origin, and
reuniting after that by the route of one having been rendered more
circuitous than that of the other, when the difference in the lengths of
           has become such as to qualify them for       interference. It
the paths  to Professor Kane to ascertain whether       Sir J. Herschel's
occurred

idea could be verified in practice, and in certain cases the result has

been found satisfactory.

   A system of tubes was constructed in which the lengths of the

paths were as two to three. Thus in the annexed figures (which,
                                  notwithstanding the difference of shape,

                      produced precisely the same results,) the
                      shorter path a. c. d. is as 10 inches and the

                      longer a. b. d. 15 inches in length. The
                      waves of sound were generated by the lan-
                      guette mechanism of an organ-pipe applied
                      at a. or d., and the series obtained first for

                      each tube separately, and then from the sy

                      stem of both. The series of the shorter
                      tube was found E'.E". B". E'"., and that
                      of the longer tube A. A'. E". A". C". E'".

When the tubes were sounded together, the latter series was ob

tained complete, and the notes of the shorter tube completely sup
14 BRITISH ASSOCIATION. --1835.

pressed. It was found, however, that the sounds of the longer tube,
                                           of the shorter, were obtained with
which also belong to the series            and A", and B". appeared to break
superior clearness, as E". E'".

into each other.

   Other experiments having shown that systems of tubes may,
by certain methods of vibration, be forced to produce sounds not
included in their natural series of harmonics, and it being pos
sible that the suppression of the proper vibrations of the shorter
tube resulted not from the ordinary principle of interference
but from being forced into unison with the longer one, Professor
Kane endeavoured to obtain a system in which the whole series
of neither tubes should be suppressed, but that certain notes
should be absorbed from the series of each. In only one case did

he succeed, but in that one the result

combination was made of this figure, in
which the length of the path a. b. c. e. was
21 inches, that of the path a. b. d. e. was

18 inches. The series of the shorter tube

was F. F'. C". F'"., and of the longer D. D'. A'. D". F". A". D"'.

The waves being excited from the orifice e. the series of the system

was D. F. D". F". A". C". Hence the notes F'. and C". had
been absorbed from the series of the shorter, and the notes D'. and
A',        thtehaDt .ofD"th.eanlodngAe"r,                                       C". of the
     from                                  tube :  whilst the  F. F". and
one  and                                           other tube                   their place
                                           of the              maintained

in the series given by the system.

On the various Attempts which have been made to imitate Human
    Speech by Mechanical Means. By Professor Wiieatstone.

Professor Wheatstone gave an account of the various attempts
which have been made to imitate the articulations of speech by me
chanical means. He described and repeated the experiments of
Kratzenstein, De Kempelen, the Abbe Mical, and Mr. Willis of
            De Kempelen's speaking-machine was exhibited in
Cambridge.
the course of the lecture, and made to pronounce many words and
a few short sentences. Professor Wheatstone concluded with an
analysis of the elements of speech founded on these and other inves
tigations, and pointed out the importance of the inquiry as con
nected with philology.

On   the  Construction       of Public Buildings   inDr.eBfe.reRnceeidt.o  the  communi
                     cation   of Sound. By Dr.

Dr. Reid maintained, from numerous experiments made in the
open air in the neighbourhood of Edinburgh,
sisted by a number of gentlemen, and also                      in which he was as

                                                               from a comparison of

his class-room with many other buildings, that any difficulty in the
communication of sound in large rooms arises generally from the
TRANSACTIONS OP THE SECTIONS.  15

 interruption of sound produced by a prolonged reverberation, and,
 comparatively, rarely from a deficiency in the voice of the speaker.
 The human voice had been heard distinctly at the distance of a
 mile and upwards in a calm atmosphere. Sir John Ross, Lieu

  tenant Bowen, and many others, had borne testimony to this fact ;

 and in the experiments above alluded to, in the open air, individuals

 conversed easily at a distance varying from 200 to 1000 feet, when
 it was calm. In many rooms, in consequence of the repeated re
 flections between wall and wall, or between roof and floor, the sound

of the voice might be heard continued many seconds after the indi

 vidual trying the experiment had ceased to speak. In a newly
 fitted-up leaden chamber for the manufactory of oil of vitriol, the
 sound was heard prolonged for seven seconds ; and when the dif
 ferent notes of any chord were sounded successively by any indi
 vidual, they were afterwards heard blending harmoniously in one
 compound tone. The leaden chamber was 80 feet long, 15 broad,
and 1 6 high. In numerous public buildings similar effects are ob

served ; but if the walls be made rough and irregular, so as to lose
all resilient power, and hung with drapery, the reverberation ceases.
On the same principle, the reflecting power of the floor being taken

away by a crowded audience, sound is very different in such an
apartment from what is observed when it is comparatively empty.
The distinction between the actual amount of sound and purity of
intonation has not been sufficiently attended to. Much sound may
be produced when the primary impulse is strengthened by combi
nation with the reflected sound of many preceding words, but it has
none of that harmony and distinctness which is observed when the
primary sound alone is allowed to fall upon the ear. The sound

of cannon has been heard at the distance of 300 miles. Captain
Stoddart's account of the firing of cannon in the Baltic heard at this

distance, affords the most ample and specific information on this

subject. The sound of volcanic eruptions has been heard at a di
stance of nearly 900 miles. It cannot be doubted that the repeated
reflection of preceding sounds must interfere most materially with
those that succeed ; and, from what has been above stated, it is ob
vious that such reflections must be continued frequently to a great

extent in numerous apartments.

   In constructing buildings, the following circumstances require to
be particularly noticed.

   In the most perfect form of building for the communication of

sound, any reflected sound must be prevented from continuing so
as to interrupt any new tone, by being thrown upon a non-reflect

ing floor. So long as the reflected sound comes up in time to
strengthen the primary impulse before any new sound is heard, it is

to be taken advantage of; beyond this it is injurious. A building

having low walls, rough and irregular on the surface, an inclined
roof terminating in a ridge in the centre, and having any elevation
there that might be necessary, the material of which it is made
having great reflecting power, with a floor matted and arranged so
16 BRITISH ASSOCIATION. -- 1835.

so as to absorb all pulses of sound, would be best adapted for this

purpose.

   All superfluous space should be excluded.

    The air should be maintained as uniformly equal as possible.

   All concave surfaces ought to be avoided ; foci, in such cases,

collecting the sound at one point, while in other places it is compa
ratively deficient.

   Dr. Reid, after alluding to the peculiarities in the construction of
his class-room, and to many other buildings, adverted to a number
of circumstances connected with the roof, walls, and floor of different
buildings, the introduction of ornaments, the variety of form that
might be adopted according as the walls, roof, &c. were made to
reflect or absorb sounds, and the different conditions to be attended
to where the speaker was confined to one spot, and where indivi

duals rose in every place to address an assembly.

Experimental  Researches       into the  Laws of the  Motion  of Floating
                      Bodies.            S. Russell.
                                  By J.

It was the object of these inquiries to assist in bringing to per
fection the theory of Hydrodynamics, and ascertain the causes of
                                            of fluids,
certain anomalous facts  in the resistance              so as  to reduce
them under the dominion
                          of known laws.
The resistance of fluids to the motion of floating vessels is found

in practice to differ widely from theory, being, in certain cases,
double or triple of what theory gives, and in other and higher

velocities, much less. These deviations have now been ascertained
to follow two simple and very beautiful laws : 1st, A law giving a
certain emersion of the body from the fluid as a function of the ve
locity. 2nd, A law giving the resistance of the fluid as a function
of the velocity and magnitude of a wave propagated through the
fluid, according to the law of Lagrange. These two laws compre

hend the anomalous facts, and lead to the following

                                                   Results.

   1 . That the resistance of a fluid to the motion of a floating body
will rapidly increase as the velocity of the body rises towards the
velocity of the wave, and will become greatest when they approach

nearest to equality.

   2. That when the velocity of the body is rendered greater than
that due to the wave, the motion of the body is greatly facilitated :
it remains poised on the summit of the wave in a position which
may be one of stable equilibrium ; and this effect is such that at a
velocity of 9 miles an hour the resistance is less than at a velocity
of 6 miles behind the wave.
t. 3. The velocity of the wave is independent of the breadth of the
fluid and varies with the square root of the depth.
          TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                                1?

    4. It is established that there is in every navigable stream a cer
                                                    ascend the river
tain velocity at which it will  be more   easy to                     against
the current than to descend     with the  current.     Thus, if the   current

flow at the rate of one mile an hour in a stream 4 feet deep, it will
be easier to ascend with a velocity of 8 miles an hour on the wave

than to descend with the same velocity behind the wave.
    5. That vessels may be propelled on the summit of waves at the
rate of between 20 and 30 miles an hour.

On  a  Species of Balance and its    Application to  the Measurement   of
              Electrical Repulsion.  By W. Snow
                                                     Harris.

The principle of this instrument depends on the reactive force
Ifimparted to two parallel silk threads without torsion, from which is
suspended a horizontal needle or other body.         a needle be sus

pended by two parallel and vertical filaments of silk without torsion,
equally distant from the centre, its position of rest will be horizon
tal, and in the vertical plane passing through the silk filaments.
When the needle is turned through any given angle, the centre of
gravity of the mass is raised, so that the needle will, when aban
doned to the force of gravity, continue to oscillate, and will be in
the state of a body falling down a small circular arc. Mr. Harris
has examined the law of this force imparted to the threads, and finds
it as the weight and square of the distance between the threads di
rectly and as the length indirectly, and that it is exactly proportionate
to the angle of deflection of the needle. Upon these principles
Mr. Harris has constructed a balance, which he exhibited to the
Section, and by which he can estimate any forces of repulsion in
electricity however small. The instrument. is not liable to many
difficulties which embarrass the use of the torsion balance, and may
be employed with advantage m several branches of experimental

physics.

           On Electrical Attraction. By W. Snow Harris.

   The object of this paper was to examine the operation of attrac
tion in electricity, and the laws and differences between the force of

attraction actually exerted between two bodies, and the force excited

in a neutral uninsulated body, by the influence of a charged body
acting upon it at a distance. The author endeavoured to show that the
former force varied in an inverse ratio of the distance simply ; that
the law of the inverse square of the distance, which is the general
law for the formed force, does not obtain at all distances between
bodies, except one of them be uninsulated and neutral ; and that in all
cases of attraction there are two previous forces to be considered,
1st, the force directly induced in the neutral body ; 2nd, the effect
of this induced force upon the charged body ; which last he called
IB . BRITISH ASSOCIATION. -- 1835.

the reflected force, and attempted to prove that the whole attrac
tive force between these bodies varies with these forces conjointly,

so that if one of them becomes fixed it varies with the other. He

exhibited and described several new experiments in electricity re
lating to electrical induction and attraction, and expressed his opi
nion that the whole attractive force was dependent on the action
excited in the neutral bodies reflected on the charged body. This
principle, with but little modification, he further applied to any case
of electrical attraction whatever.

On  the  Application of the Proof     Plane    and Torsion Balance          to  in
             quiries in Electricity.    By
                                             W. Snow Harris.

   Mr. Harris conceives that an insulated plate of metal of small
thickness may take up unequal quantities of electricity from a body
and yet the distribution be uniform. The experiments in illustration
of this were fully discussed. He alluded to several laws of elec
trical intensity attendant on the disposition of electricity on surfaces
and plates varying in extension and in length, but of the same area,
and endeavoured to show that contrary to the ordinary view of
electrical distribution, electricity existed on both surfaces of a hol
low sphere, as well as on both surfaces of a plate of the same area.
He considers every case of attraction in electricity to resolve itself
into the case of charging a coated non-conducting body, and that
the phaenomena always correspond to those observed in the latter.

         On the Aurora Borealis. By Sir John Ross.

    Having observed in his first arctic expedition that the aurora

sometimes appeared between the two ships, and also between the

ships and the icebergs, and found in his subsequent experience,

both in Scotland and during the second arctic voyage, proofs satis

factory to his own mind that the aurora takes place within the
cloudy regions of the           astumbojescpth, ervei,z.Si"r  John Ross
following hypothesis   earth's                                The aurora    states the
                       on the                                               is entirely

occasioned by the action of the sun's rays upon the vast body of icy
and snowy plains and mountains which surround the poles."

On  an  (economic Application of    EBleyctrRo-ombaegrntetMic alFloercte.s  to manufac
                  turing Purposes.

   The separation of iron from brass and copper filings, &c., in
workshops, for the purpose of the refusion of them into brass, is
commonly effected by tedious manual labour. Several bar or
horse-shoe magnets are fixed in a wooden handle, and are
thrust, in various directions, through a dish or other vessel contain-
             TRANSACTIONS OF THB SECTIONS.                       19

ing the brass and iron turnings, &c., and when the magnets have be
come loaded with iron it is swept off from them by frequent strokes

of a brush. This is an exceedingly troublesome and inefficacious

process.

   It appeared to the author that a temporary magnet of great power,
formed by the circulation of an electric current round a bar of iron,
might be substituted advantageously. The following is the arrange
ment which he has adopted. Several large round bars of iron are
bent into the form of the capital letter U, each leg being about six
inches long. They are all coated with coils of- silk-covered wire,
in the usual way of forming electro-magnets of such bars, and are
then arranged vertically, at the interval of five or six inches from

each other.
All the wires from these coils are collected into one bundle at
their respective poles, and there joined into one by soldering, a large
wire being placed in the midst of              amalgamated. A
vanic battery is provided, which,  them and                      gal
                                                taken in making   the
                                   if care be

junctions at the poles, &c., need not exceed four or at most six
pairs of plates, of from twenty inches to two feet square. The poles
of this terminate in cups of mercury, which are so placed that the
large terminal wires of all the coils can be dipped into them, or
withdrawn easily.
The rest of the arrangement is purely mechanical. The required

motions are taken from any first mover, usually a steam engine.

The previously described arrangement being complete, a chain of
buckets is so contrived as to carry up and discharge over the top of
the magnets a quantity of the mixed metallic particles : most of the
iron adheres to the magnets, while the so far purified brass falls into
a dish or tray placed beneath to receive it. This latter is also one
of a chain of dishes, the horizontal motion of which is so regulated

that the interval between two dishes is immediately under the mag

nets, in the interval of time between two successive discharges of
the mixed particles on the bars.

   At this juncture the communication between the galvanic battery

and the magnets is interrupted by withdrawing the wires from the
cups of mercury, and the result is, that the greatest part of the ad
hering iron drops off and falls in the space between the two dishes.
The next dish now comes under the magnets, the communication is

restored, and a fresh discharge from the buckets takes place, and
so the process is continued.

   Some iron constantly adheres to the magnets, but this is found of

no inconvenience as it bears but a small proportion to the total

quantity separated.

   The author has had an imperfect apparatus of the sort above de
scribed at work for some time, and has found it to answer ; and
suggests the application of electro-magnets for somewhat analogous
objects in various manufactures. He particularly mentions needle

and other dry grinding.

                         c2
            BRITISH ASSOCIATION. 1835.

An Inquiry into the Possibility and Advantage of the Application of
Magnetism   as a Moving Power, with Remarks on the                                             Nature  of
Magnetism.    By the Rev. James William M'Gauley.

To consider with advantage the possibility of applying magnetism

as a moving power, we must examine its nature and peculiar pro

perties, because otherwise we cannot pronounce with accuracy on the
quantity at our command, or the probable cheapness of its produc

tion. In this inquiry the author does not contemplate such a power
as that attained in magnetic rotations and similar mechanism ; it could
never be advantageous ; for the force of the magnet is not directly
applied, or is applied at such a distance as to be almost annihilated.
The quantity of magnetism we may produce seems to have no
limit, since we can combine any number of powerful magnets.
                                     A very small electrical power, which
   Thececonomy of     magnetism.       by the agency of sea-water, will

may be produced        if necessary

-abundantly suffice.
The obstacles likely to prevent the application of magnetism as
a moving power. Of these the principal seems to consist in the
disturbing influence which magnets of any power exercise over
each other. This prevents the necessary reversion of the poles.
Experiment 1st. The author tried to reverse the poles of one
electro-magnet in contact with another : the sudden rush of elec
tricity evidently caused a magnetic needle near the magnet to be af
afencytepde, rmbuatnetnhterechwanagsenoofseppoalarraittiyo.n--oEr xreppeurlismioennto2fntdh.e
                                                                                               magnets, nor
                                                                                                 The similar
poles of two electro-magnets of very different power were brought
together : they attracted each other ; the poles of the smaller magnet

were reversed by the larger, and a counter-current was formed

cthirrcouugith. --itEsxbpaetrtiemrye, ntan3drdi.ndicOanteldy  by a galvanometer placed in the
                                                              one of the magnets was excited,

then its poles reversed  ; the  ovthioeler,ncaec.ti--ng             as a keeper, was thrown
off, and attracted with  great                                    Experiment 4th. Between
            two semicircular magnets A and B, a bar of soft
fI A C  ^ iron, C, was suspended, and their poles reversed in
        /b J such a manner alternately as to throw off" the bar from
\^_         --oneExmpaegrnimeteanntd5ctahu. se                it  to be attracted by           the other.
                                                                  bar of magnetized             steel was
                                                              A

placed between the magnets ; but the effect was not so powerful,
since the iron bar became by induction a stronger magnet than the
steel, and hence the mutual actions of the iron bar and the magnets

was more powerful.
The very limited space within which magnetic action is confined
presents a very considerable obstacle. The power is inversely as
the square of the distance ; at the eighth of an inch the power even
of a large magnet is comparatively trifling. The stroke of one eighth
of an inch, directly applied to machinery jwould be nothing: we must
increase the stroke, and at the same time diminish the power as little
              TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                                                      21

Ifas possible.  we increase the stroke, by increasing the distance

between the bar and the magnets, we diminish the power inversely

as the square of the distance ; if by applying the power of the mag
net at the shorter arm of a lever, we diminish only in the inverse
ratio of the distance : thus, if it is wanted to increase the stroke

twelve times, the power in one case with the smaller distance, is to
the power in the other with the larger distance, as the square of
the larger is to the square of the smaller, as 122:la::144: 1.
With a lever, the power with the smaller distance is to the power
with the larger as the distance in the latter case is to the distance
in the former, : : 12 : 1. The power in any case is much diminished ;
but as we can create it in any quantity, this is of little consequence.
The repulsion of the magnet for the bar, though considerable, is

much less than its attraction.

   The construction of the machine by which Mr. M'Gauley has.
exemplified the application of magnetism as a moving power is
easily conceived. An oaken frame supports two magnets, A and B,

                    horizontally. The bar P K, fixed in a strong pen
                     dulum of wood, of which S is a horizontal section,

              swinging on steel knife-edges, vibrates between the

              magnets, and has attached to its lower extremity a
              rod connected with the reversing apparatus and
                                                       The poles of the
              any other required machinery.

                          magnets are simultaneously reversed, and the bar
driven with great force from one to the other, and with a ve

locity of two or three hundred vibrations in a minute. The ap
paratus for reversing the poles is simple, and can be adapted almost

without increasing its weight to any combination of magnets. Let
A B represent the axis upon which the wires w m and

?»' »', crossing each other under          are turned these dip into
cups of mercury,  c
                                c',

                                              it,

                                                                                       ;
                  and          connected with each other by the

wire Q, and with the zinc plate of the battery by the wire                                It ;P  and
into the cups c" and c'", connected with each other by the wire X,
and with the copper of the battery by the wire D. mm and m' m' are
connected with the cups V and                          and N, and with
                                   by the wires
                  c
                           :

                                  R
                                       V

                                                   SK
NtKheanpdoles of an electro-magnet M by    the wires    and T. The wires
              rise in the cups of mercury
                                               and R,  but do not leave the

mercury. Let us suppose, as in the figure, the wires m m and rv' m'
to dip into the cups c" we shall trace the electricity.
                                                                                               flows
22 BRITISH ASSOCIATION. -- 1835.

from the copper of the battery F along D to c'", along X to c", along
N to R, along T to S, where it enters one pole of the magnet M.
Now, let the wires rv w and w' w' have turned a little on their axis
A B, so as to dip respectively into c' and c'". The electricity flows
from F along D to c'", along w rv, crossing the axis A B, along K,
to V, along S, and enters the magnet at N, before it entered at S ;

hence the current is inverted and the poles reversed.

   The machine can be stopped or set in motion in a moment by lift

Ifing or replacing any of the wires forming the galvanic circuit.
    its motion be interrupted its power is not wasted as in other ma
chinery, but is accumulating ; so that when it again works, it acta with
increased power and velocity. We can continue the most perfectly
uniform motion for any length of time by allowing additional fluid
Ifto drop very gradually into the copper of the battery; the one cop
per will answer for any number of magnets.                                           the zinc plates be

separate, by insulating these plates with flannel bags we greatly in
crease the power and add to the duration of the galvanic effect.
   Mr. M'Gauley has endeavoured to examine the relative lifting
power of magnets of various forms. The following are some of the

results :

The Iron. Three helices of the same wire, each 22 feet in length

were coiled on three different magnets, and the same battery was

used.

                   In--length                                                                                                   lb- oz.
fMagnet No.                                                                                                                     11 11
               1.              28 inches, diam.                                      2 inches,  power
               2.                8                                                              1                               24
                                                                                                                     6
                                                                                                                              ts
               ...3. A magnet having knobs, B and C each
It k                    inches in length, diameter                                              inch,
    as
                   and connected by an arm -H- by -tV, the
                                 l-Vt
                   wire coiled on the knobs, with connect
                                                                      ;
                   ing spiral power

       was found on another occasion that when the helix did not bear
so great disproportion to the iron, the power of the larger magnet
was-comparatively very great. To learn the best size for the iron
bar suspended in the pendulum of the machine, three forms of keeper
were tried.

No.    1.  5-J- long, -{-g- thick,                                       wide power
                        + +i                                                                                                    7 34
       2. 5++      -14                        ;                                                                                       880
                   +£
       3. 5i

   The large magnet would not lift steel needle, but lifted wire of      a                      a
soft iron equal in size to the needle. Perhaps the intensity of the

magnetism, though its sum was nearly equal with the same coil,
was smaller when diffused through the particles of the larger mag
net, and was unable to disturb the magnetic equilibrium of the steel
needle.
            TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                        23

    The Battery. The magnet designated above as No. 2. was tried
with a battery :

--No. 1. Double cell, each 1 foot square ; power               lb. oz.
      2. I       1 foot by 6 inches                           11 11

                                                                6 11

      3. Single cell, 3 inches by 2+                             08
      4. 1 inch square                                        '0 2

Same magnet with single cell of battery No. 2, and charged with

...No. 1. 1 part sulphuric acid, 50 parts water ; power.      5  0
      ....2. 1                                                3  8
                 nitric acid,  50

   The spark with these charges was at first very brilliant, but the
effect was transitory.

No. 3. Diluted alcohol, 10 parts in 100 ; power         ....    04
      4. 2 parts sulph. acid, 1 nitric acid, 100 water        11 10

      5. 1 part                2 100                          40

No. 4. was tried with a helix interposed between the po
   sitive pole of the battery and the magnet. The lifting

power was                                                     10

Another magnet being interposed, power                        30

When No. 4 was exhausted, so that it would lift only 1
pound, its zinc plate was raised out of the fluid and re

placed ; this increased the power to                          28

When No. 4 would lift only 1 pound its fluid was poured
into its other cell, and the power became
8 pairs of plates in Cruikshank's battery caused magnet       59

No. 4 to lift                                                 58
A calorimotor of equal surface, charged with a similar fluid 11 10

   Perhaps the increased tension of the electricity might be found of
advantage when the helix is of great length.

   In speaking of the charge, the author remarks that he is fully
persuaded of the necessity of decomposition for the production of
galvanic effect. A deflexion of 15° and more has been produced
in a galvanometer of great delicacy, which he constructed by merely
uniting, by a single corner of each, two tarnished pieces of metal, the
one zinc, the other copper ; the imperceptible perspiration of the hand

may have acted as a fluid, and some foreign substance deposited on
either or both metals have aided the decomposition.

    The Helix. Four magnets with different helices were used with
the same battery.

Magnet No. 1. 8 inches long, £ diam., coil 7-J- yards, power  11 0
                                                                60
      2. 4
                                                                25
Five            3. That with knobs already mentioned, coiled   02
                  with 74- yards of wire                      coiled

               Coiled with ribbon of copper on the knobs . .

      fmagnets, each 8 inches long and diameter, were

                                                                         s
24 BRITISH ASSOCIATION. 1835.

with 7.J. yards of wire, and the same battery was used with each

magnet.

No. 1. The wire was coiled only on the ends, and crossed

         straight from one pole to the other              10

2. Wire coiled on the ends, but connected by a spiral

         round the magnet                                 11  0
3. Wire divided, and each half placed as a helix on
                                                           6  0
        one end of the magnet                              7  0
4. Wire coiled equally over the whole magnet
5. Wire divided into 4 equal parts, each coiled on one     5  0

       fourth of the magnet
C yards of wire were coiled on a magnet 7+ inches

         long, + square                                   70

l£ yard of wire were coiled on a magnet 7+ inches         30

         long, + square

Hence the power of the magnet increases far more rapidly than pro
portionately with its size.

   Remarks on the Nature of Magnetism. The author in this part
of his paper discusses the prevalent theories of magnetism, and
compares them with a variety of experiments corresponding to the
analysis which he presents of the subject. It would be nearly
impracticable to do justice to Mr. M'Gauley's views on the nature
of magnetism in the compass of an abstract. The following brief
notice will serve to convey some idea of his mode of reasoning.

   Magnetism does not arise from the circulation of electrical cur
rents, but from the electrical excitation of the mass or the particles

in the magnet : not from currents, because it can begin to exist
without them, can continue to exist without them, and because cur
rents can be generated in conducting substances of sufficient quan
tity, velocity and intensity, without the development of magnetism.

Magnetism is mere electrical excitation, provided that by mere elec
trical excitation we can cause its existence, and its various phaeno-

mena are such as we should expect fronrmere electrical excitement ;

and provided not electrical currents but electricity at rest be always

coexistent with it. Such, the author contends, are the facts, and he

proceeds to prove his position by appropriate experiments.
   He then offers explanations in agreement with these views of se

veral leading phaenomena, as terrestrial induction, the mutual at
traction of conjunctive wires, the position of the poles, of a perma
nent magnet, and of an electro-magnet, the retention of magnetism
in steel, the destruction of magnetism by heat, the development of
Ifit by percussion, &c. He fmally observes:
         magnetism be merely   electrical  eaxcmitaotrieonceictonisompriocablabmleodethaot,f
cheap as their production is  at present,
forming powerful magnets may yet be discovered. Though it may
be said that magnetism is not now for the first time applied to ma
chinery, the author believes it will be acknowledged that the attempt

to apply magnetism to machinery, as an advantageous and a powerful
TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                                            25

agent, has been totally unsuccessful. In the experiment brought
under the notice of the Section, the velocity with which the poles of
any number of magnets are reversed is inconceivable, and the whole
lifting power is applied with the greatest possible advantage directly
to the mechanism ; circumstances which appear to justify the au
thor's expectation that the application of magnetism to machinery, as
a moving power, will ultimately be successful.

   Description of a New Dipping Needle. By R. W. Fox.                    by the

   [A description of this instrument has been already printed

author.]

   Abstract of Hansteen's Researches in Magnetism.                       By Capt.
Sabine.

[This paper will be printed in the next volume of Transactions.]

andAcPcroouf.ntLolofyMdag; nceotmicmOubnsicearvteadtionbsy  in Ireland.  By Capt. Sabine
                                                            the latter.

[This will be printed in the next volume of Transactions.]

   Results of three years and a half hourly Observations with the
Thermometer at Plymouth. By W. Snow Harris.

[This Paper will be printed in the next volume of Transactions.]

On the Measurement ofLiHeeuitg.-hCtosl.byScyokmems.on Thermometers. By

   The thermometric     instrument   for measuring heights invented by
                        Wollaston,  though very sensible, has been found
the late Rev. F. J. H.
by the author and Mr. James Prinsep of Calcutta too fragile and too
expensive for rough work. After the destruction of three of these in
struments, Col. Sykes had recourse to common thermometers, which,
with certain precautions, he found to answer extremely well, and

having tested their indications by contemporaneous barometrical ob
servations, he was enabled to present a table of comparative results.
The thermometer to be observed was uniformly kept in the water,
which was made to boil violently, about 2 inches above the bottom of

the pot ; two thermometers were successively employed, the differ

ence of their scales being known ; different tables of the elastic force
of steam were employed in the reduction ; and from the whole of

the results the author has collected a few into a table, calculated
to show the limits of error, of thermometric measures of heights
in India, when the boiling temperature of the level of the sea is
assumed to be constantly 212°; of single barometrical observa
tions, when the pressure at the level of the sea is assumed to be

30,000 inches, (mean temperature in both cases 82°;) and of corre
sponding barometrical observations. The general agreement of all

the results, by whatever method obtained, is remarkable, and is con
sidered by Col. Sykes as justifying his, opinion that common thermo
meters may be satisfactorily used to supply the place of barometers
in measuring heights, where great accuracy is not required.
   26 BRITISH ASSOCIATION. --1835.

        Xq s.noiin.Yiawp Sin                                                  *"      i             S&
        .puudsajjoa JO nB3K
                                                                          I Ii I                     -     O---

                                                                                                     -i
            ·33U3*301i1                                                                              ll

        ·Fni}qiijnj 3'soiaBjni3uiuB·ifa.bjdoBu3isaa'jdiqacs)                    SR 8 S              1x
        gunioq jo ojuajajjig
                                                                                £* 3! el 3

                 \Ai.'K                                                                         3S
        [ivipn[  'saiqin   b.uos
        .uiqou            ·dmaJ                                                 K 5 Vi
                 Ja ^
        3uqioq id 33Uaiq»i(l

                 Xq 5 'Uuaqj s § & S?                                                    I      §£'

   sO         iq i .uu^m                                                        ?,ii

   m    'saiiUBiaduiaj

   aoa  "5  'OK  8,S3UOfpUB
   §w   ·l  ·ox  'iBg s,Xje3

        JUtq^iA SU01JBAJ3S
        -go 'flutpuodsaJJoD
                  ·S pUB
        i>».*:«-SOX

        qjiAi
                 '"Ba S(ijU3
                 snopBAJOs
        ·go auq)uods.)iJ03
                                                                                                           II
        -jcg «(XjB3 put?adof                                                             s. &                        §
        '^dBJ qjl.» SUOiJBA133
         -qo guipuodtfoiJo.')

        S'onM.hOPUbueh                                                                          ct  ooin°
        JQ l|l! '.VSUO1JBAJ0s                                                                   si
        .qo auipuodsaxio^

        ·iEas,M*ii!os.s!A.,3f                                             g
        -jd«3 ini» suopCA.ras
         -qo 8uipuodsa.no.)

           onip otiip '5 .o^

           Bos oq^jo i9Aai oqj i                                          s  a

        p?'5s»iraoi"doQoK''T"pi!a''"duomigOnsSasls3n.°suaqr3auj1iuoAnifs

                                                                                      E

                               t«                                                                                    if

                                  |fa                                                                                5      e'J

                 E 5 ea                                                                                              »,
                                         »E
                                                                                                    "I           iE         aE *§
                                                                                                    I8

                                                                                      &. X a.       SI                      So

                                                                          CJ -- ^ ;Q -- <N ^"^      =3

                                                                          | i xii«?&St o&ooSsaoSaoS hSt 1oo aox as aSo a8o

v
            TRANSACTIONS OP THB 8ECTIONS.                                              2JT

Results of a Third Series of Experiments on the Quantities of Rain
                                                                            By W. Gkat,
received  aPtrodfi.ffePrehnitlliHpesi.ghts  in  the Atmosphere.

Jun. and

[This Paper will be printed in the next volume of Transactions.]

Dr. Apjohn explained the substance of two papers recently read
by him before the Royal Irish Academy, and which have within a
few days appeared in the last part of their Transactions. In the first
of these papers a formula is investigated for pointing out what has

long been considered a desideratum in meteorology, namely, the ex
act relation between the indications of the wet-bulb thermometer

and the corresponding dew-points ; while, in the second, a number of
experiments are detailed, instituted for the purpose of testing its ac

curacy, and which seemed to prove that the formula represented
observations with an extreme precision. The following is an out
line of his communication, which was made orally to this Section.

When the wet thermometer attains its stationary temperature,
the caloric which it loses and acquires in a given time are obviously
fequal. The latter is that imparted by the surrounding air to the
                                                                            t',
instrument in cooling through t -- t' degrees, and the former that            t

which constitutes the caloric of elasticity of the vapour formed. Now
if m be the amount of moisture which a given weight of air is ca
pable, when saturated, of containing at the temperature and m! the
quantity of vapour which would be formed at the same temperature
by the caloric evolved from the air in cooling through -- s=
      then  the     relation in question expressed by the equation                     it t'
                     in which/" the tension of vapour at the dew-                            d
jit =ji --degrees,--~\
a
                                   is
  is /                                         is
                                                           is
point, and/' its tension at the temperature of the wet-bulb thermo

meter. This expression rigorously exact, for in arriving at we

merely assume what must at once be conceded, namely, that the air
which cooled by contact with the moist bulb becomes saturated
                                                and that the tension of vapour
with moisture at the temperature
                       a
                                             t',                            directly proportional

                                                            is
at given volume and given temperature
to its quantity or specific gravity. But the value of m easily as
                                                                                   is

signed by aid of the theory of mixed gases and vapours, and that of
m! also admits of being readily deduced from the known values of
the specific heat of air and the caloric of elasticity of vapour. When

this done, and the proper substitutions made, the above expression
is
      is

                                      is

                                                                         :

                                                                   it
/"converted into the following                  =/'                         x --.

To this solution of the dew-point problem may be objected that

the coefficient which  set down as -ay cannot be constant, in as

much as its value depends upon the latent heat of aqueous vapour
and the specific heat of the medium which encompasses the wet
thermometer, both of which vary, the former with the temperature,
and the latter with the pressure and the amount of vapour present

in the air. Such objection  is              theoretically just, and the necessary

corrections have therefore been investigated by the author in his

                                                                                                   ,
28 BRITISH ASSOCIATION. 1835.

original paper, and may be applied if deemed necessary. Experience

however has satisfied him that, generally speaking, they may be neg

lected, as in almost every instance their amount is considerably
within the inevitable errors of observation.
The experiments instituted for the purpose of testing the formula,
                                                                               next ex
and which are  detailed   in the author's second paper, were
plained. The   principle                                                       if air, in
                           of the first of these is as follows :

reference to which t, t' and t" (the dew-point) have been accurately
noted, be raised to any elevated temperature, and the observation be
repeated in the heated air as far as respects t and we shall have
                                                                      t',
                                                                           is
two separate sets of observations from which to calculate the point
of deposition and as the amount of moisture in the air not altered
;
                     a

                                    it
by the augmentation of temperature has experienced, both calcu

lations, provided the formula be correct, should give precisely the

same result, t. c. the dew-point in the first instance determined by
observation. Four distinct series of experiments on this plan were
performed by means of very simple apparatus, and though the de
pressions varied from 40,7 to 280,5, the calculated dew-points for

each series were found almost coincident, and the differences between

these and the observed dew-points were so trifling amount as to
be clearly ascribable to unavoidable inaccuracy of observation.
                                                                      d in

                                                                                                          ·
The next test experiments performed were suggested by the for-

/' 0,If/" /"mula itself.
       a       =/' -- ttt tj;, and                                    be supposed equal to
                                    a
                                                  adcondition which can only be fulfilled in perfectly dry air,
                                                 d, x

                                                             p
                                                                  is
= gy X ^, an equation from which we deduce = 87/' X --

Hence by determining experimentally the depression of the wet
thermometer in perfectly dry air we shall be enabled to pronounce
upon the validity of the general method under discussion. In order
to observe several values of            air forced from a caoutchouc bag
was made to pass three times through about two inches of oil of
vitriol, and then to traverse tube containing the dry and wet ther
mometer, and the indications of these instruments were noted down
as soon as the latter assumed its stationary temperature. Of nine
teen observations of depression thus obtained, eleven were little
                                                                               a
                                                                                         a
greater, and eight little less than the calculated results. The mean of
the plus errors of the formula was '28, and of the minus errors "4 of

degree, so that ·g8 rr "40 = -- "006                                  the mean difference between

experiment and calculation deducible from the whole.                  is       This sin

gularly close correspondence of theory with experiment                          the more

satisfactory because as the mean pressure for the nineteen experi

ments was but little over 30, and as the air was perfectly dry, nei
ther of the corrections, of which mention has been already made, re
in
            a

                                     *
quired to be applied.

   The most obvious method of testing the formula, or that which

consists comparing its results with the dew-points experimentally

determined, was last noticed. That such criterion may be decisive,
            TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                                                               29

it is necessary, 1st, that the depressions be considerable in amount ;
2nd, that the dew-points be accurately known. Now neither of
these conditions is fulfilled by the few registers which have been

published, the depressions being small, and the observations made
      wanhicinhstrisumunenivte(rDsaalnlyiealld'smihttyegdr.omeIttero)c,cutrhreedd, ifhfiocwuletvyeor,f
with                                                                                                    observing
with                                                                                                    to the au

thor, that both difficulties might be overcome in the following sim
ple manner : let air saturated with moisture, and whose temperature
is therefore its dew-point, be heated, and let the temperature of the
heated air be taken, as also that shown by a wet thermometer sub
jected to the action of a current of it. Then, by the application of

the formula, let the dew.point belonging to the two latter observa
tions be calculated, and from a comparison of it with the original
temperature of the air, when saturated with humidity, he expected to
be enabled to pronounce with confidence upon the value of his me

thod. Twenty-four distinct observations were thus made, the tabu
lated results of which justify the following conclusions: 1st, that
in the case of seven of them the observed and calculated dew-points

are almost coincident ; 2nd, that the difference in no instance ex

Aceeds, and in but one instance reaches, one degree ; 3rd, that
mean difference deducible from the whole is but '35, or about one
third of a degree of Fahrenheit.

   At the close of this paper two tables are given by the aid of which
the application of the formula is rendered extremely simple and ex

peditious.

           On a New Anemometer. By the Rev. W. Wheweli.
   The author described the construction and purpose of an anemo
meter which he exhibited. The object of the instrument is to ob
tain a record of the total amount of the aerial current which passes
the place of observation in each direction. The assemblage of such
records for any given time will exhibit a type of the course of the
wind for such time ; the mean of such records at the same place for
different years will exhibit the annual type of the winds for that
place, and the comparison of the types of the winds for many dif
ferent places will throw light upon the general annual movement of
the atmosphere. Some of these instruments are now in course of
construction, with a view to their being tried in different places, and
it is hoped that some account of their working may be produced at
the next Meeting of the Association.

Account     of the  Measurement of   the Aberdeen  Standard Scale.
                         By Francis
                                     Baily.

[This Paper will be printed in the next volume of Transactions.]
              BRITIBH ASSOCIATION. --1835.

                      CHEMISTJtY. -- ELECTRICITY.

On the    Specific  HeMat.sD.,ofPrtohfeespsoerrmoafnCenhtelmy isterylastinic                            Fluids.    By
   James  Apjohn,                                                                                     the Royal
                                                                                                                  Col

lege of Surgeons, Ireland.

   After an introductory view of the state of knowledge on this sub
ject, Dr. Apjohn proceeded to explain the principle of an entirely
new method which he was enabled to apply to the investigation of
the difficult problem under consideration, in consequence of having
been recently fortunate enough to arrive at a formula which ex
presses, with extreme and unexpected precision, the relation exist
ing between the indications of a wet-bulb thermometer and the cor-
responding dew-points. This formula* (see Proceedings of Ma
thematical and Physical Section, p. 27,) being equally true of all
gases, obviously suggests a method of comparing their specific
heats. For as in the case of every gas it may be deduced that

ofJf, Jf"a =y 4~8~Jd. ' x --p , it is clear that if we determine values

and (I in different elastic media, we shall have data for ascertaining
their relative capacities for caloric. Such a method, however, though

theoretically exact, is beset with difficulties so great that it may be
considered as practically impossible. The artificial gases, as usually
collected, are saturated with moisture, a state in which they are
quite unsuited for the necessary experiments ; and even though this
difficulty were overcome, it would probably be impossible to deter
mine their dew-points by direct experiment.

   If, however, we suppose that/"=0, or that the gas is perfectly

-dry, the above value of a will become ^-- X -- , an expression in

volving no unknown quantities but/' and d, and which will there
fore enable us to calculate the specific heat of a gas when we have
                                                           to which, when in state of
observed the stationary temperature
a                                                                                                        a
                                                                                                               a
                     it

                               b
                                   c
                                  d
                                                   e,

                                                      I',
perfect desiccation,        brings the wet-bulb thermometer. In order
to the determination oft', and of t-- t'=d, the following method of
experimenting was, after a trial of several others, finally adopted.
Into bent tube, a           about 50 inches long, and-rVths of an
inch in diameter, oil of vitriol was poured to the height marked by

the horizontal line x y, and to one extremity of this siphon pair
of bladders furnished with stopcocks were attached, through the
intervention of three-armed copper pipe, while to the other ex
tremity of the apparatus there was connected by caoutchouc collar
;

      d /'
                            e
                            a
                                 £-,
                                                      ;
                                                                   e

                                                       is
                                                          is

                                                                                                  C,

                                                                              a
glass tube carrying the dry thermometer D, and wet one W.

          48
/"·
/"=/'--       adX           in which  th« elastic force of vapour at the
                        30

dew-point; its elastic force at the temperature            shown by the wet ther
mometer; the difference between the latter temperature, and that of the
                                                                                                      t

air a the specific heat of air and the caloric of elasticity of the vapour

of water whose elastic force or tension represented by/'.
              TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                    31

Matters being thus arranged, an assistant pressed, by means of a
deal board, first upon the bladder A, containing atmospherical air,

and, when it was exhausted, upon the bladder G, containing the gas
which was the immediate subject of experiment. The air, in pass
ing through the oil of vitriol, was deprived of its vapour, and in

subsequently traversing the tube containing the thermometers, pro
duced in the wet one such a reduction of temperature, that, upon

continuing the experiment as rapidly as possible with the      --gaws,hicthh,e
wet thermometer soon acquired a stationary temperature,
when attained, was, as well as the indication of the dry instrument,
carefully noted. The residual gas was now passed into a glass jar
on the mercurial trough, with a view to a subsequent analysis ; and
both bladders being refilled with atmospherical air alone, a second

experiment was performed precisely as just described.
   From the values of 1 0 t' obtained in the first experiment, we ob

tain, by aid of the equation  a=-^-x     --  ,  the  specific  heat of the

                                    48a  p

elastic fluid which was made to traverse the apparatus. But this
result belongs not to the pure gas, but to a mixture of it with a cer
tain quantity of atmospheric air, which entered the bladder upon
the principle of endosmose ; and to infer from it the specific heat of
the pure gas, which we shall call x, it was necessary to know, 1st,
the amount of air present, and 2nd, :'/* specific heat. Now the for
mer of these data was given by the analysis of the residual gas, as
already mentioned, and the latter by the results of the second expe

Ifriment above recorded, in which both bladders were occupied by
air alone.    x be the specific heat, and s the specific gravity of
the gas, n the per centage of air, c its specific heat, and o the spe
cific heat of the mixture of air and gas, as already determined, we
shall, on the principle that the specific heat of a mixture multiplied
by its weight is equal to the sum of the products of the weights of
the gases mixed multiplied by their respective specific heats, have
;c(100 -- n)s+n c = a(100-- ns+n), an equation from which we de
duce x = a+ (a--c)n
                              This is the specific heat of the pure gas
                (100-- »)*
in reference  to that of air, as determined  by the second of the above
32 BRITISH ASSOCIATION. 1835.

experiments ; and as both air and gas are dry, and must have been,
with at least a very high degree of probability, proportionally af
fected by variations of pressure, the precise influence of these, about

which, indeed, philosophers are not agreed, do not require to be
taken into consideration ; nor is there anything further necessary

for rendering the result thus obtained strictly comparable with

those of other experimenters, than to reduce by the rule of three,
to what would be the specific heat of air were "267, the num
       it                                                                d
               it                                                           it,
                     is
                                                                                      p
                     if
ber by which        usually represented in books at a mean altitude
of the barometer. The following experiments on air and hydrogen,
performed on the 4th of August, will illustrate the preceding de

scription.

                                  t       t'

            Hydrogen              68 48 20 30.114
            Air                   68 43 25 30.114

j--By applying to these results the equation a =                            x -- we get
                                                                                         ,

            Specific heat of air                                         = "2767
            Approximate specific heat of hydrogen . ='4092
But the gas, upon analysis, was found to contain per cent, of air.
                                                                         5

Hence the specific heat of the hydrogen supposed pure as deduced
                    x = a+, ~ '. becomes '5097. And ·2767:
from the eqHuation  .4a9p1r4es=sur(te1h0eo0sf--pe3cn0i,)f--isc whheeant

·5097       "2670                                                        of hydrogen compared                                to
                                                                                                                            by
                                                                          water represented
that of air under;
     :
        :
                          :

                                                            ;;

                                                                          is
                                                                               is

                                                                                                                        ;
                                                                                                                           ;
unity, or, what amounts to the same, when air '267.
The following table exhibits the results thus obtained -- referred
to air as the standard, the number for nitrogen being the mean of
two that for hydrogen of four that for carbonic oxide of three
that for carbonic acid of three and that for nitrous oxide of two

experiments.

                       Specific Heats of  Specific Gravities.               Specific Heats of
                        equal volumes.                                         equal weights.

Carbonic oxide. . . .    1.0000               1.0000                             1.0000
                           ·9613                                              · -9887
                                                ·9722
                           ·1315                ·0694                           1-8948
                         1.0508                                                 1.0808
                         1.6677                 ·9722                          1'0916
                         1.7802               1.5277                            1.1652
                                              1.5277

A     bare inspection of this table would seem to justify the conclusion

               athat, with single exception, the different gases operated with have,
under equal volumes, specific heats proportional to their specific gra
is ;
vities and of course that, under equal weights, they have the same
specific heat. In the excepted case, that of hydrogen, the specific
heat nearly the double of that which would result from this law.
               TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                                                 33

On the absence of Magnetism in Cast Iron when infusion. By
                                  R. W. Fox.

In the course of some magnetic experiments, it appeared to the

author desirable to ascertain whether a magnetic needle is acted

upon by cast iron in a state of fusion. For this purpose he had a

horizontal mould made in sand, about five feet long and two inches
square, in the direction of the magnetic meridian ; and at a very
small distance from its northern extremity, and parallel to
               aa                                                                            he
                       it a
                                                                      a
                                                                                        it,
placed the south pole of delicately poised magnetic needle, the
north pole of which extended beyond the mould. The latter was
then filled with very fluid melted iron, but not the slightest effect
was produced on the needle till after the metal had become fixed
and cooled down to cherry-red colour. The needle was then very

suddenly attracted with great energy. Sand and                 copper plate

were employed to protect from the hot iron.

   This experiment may perhaps be considered by those who advo
cate the existence of high temperature in the interior of the earth,
as tending to strengthen the arguments in favour of the agency of

electricity in producing terrestrial magnetism, seeing that intense
heat and fixed magnetism, in the ordinary acceptation of the term,
cannot, apparently, exist together.*

On Electric Currents passing through Platinum Wire. By Willtam
                                 Barker, M.D.

When the large deflagrating battery was used on two occasions
in the Chemical School of Trinity College, Dr. Barker observed that
on passing the current of electricity through piece of platina wire,
               1
                         +                                     there were dark portions

                                               it,
                                                            a
about three feet in length, and igniting
of the wire of about or an inch in length at intervals of from
three to four inches in its whole length, the same parts of the wire

being in the same condition during the time that the wire remained
ignited. The author was unable at the time, owing to the number

of experiments to be tried with the battery, to take any measure
ments or to examine whether wires of different diameters were dif
ferently affected. The fact was stated for the consideration of the
Section, reserving for further examination the law by which the di
stances and dimensions of these unignited portions of the electrified

wire are governed, whether their distances are constant, or vary ac
cording to the size and material of the wire employed or the quan
tity or intensity of the galvanic currents.

· [Mr. Peter Barlow had shown, many years since, that all magnetic ac
tion was lost  by
                                              p.

                                                            a
               iron when raised to white heat. See Phil. Trans. 1822, or
Phil. Mag., first series, vol. Ix. 345.]

               D
                      BRITISH ASSOCIATION. 1835.

An Account of some Experiments recently made on the Buoys jm
   Kingstown Harbour, Kith a view to protect from the action of Sea
    Water the Metals, and especially the Iron-work, attached to
   them. By Edmund Davy, F.R.S., M.R.I. A., §c., Professor of
    Chemistry to the Royal Dublin Society.

   Last year an enlightened member of the Royal Dublin Society,
Mr. John M'Mahon, made the author acquainted with the fact that
the iron-work attached to the new buoys lately put down in Kings
town Harbour had undergone a very rapid corrosion by the action
of sea-water on it; and shortly after, the Commissioners of Public
Works acting as Commissioners of Kingstown Harbour directed
his attention to the subject, with the view of ascertaining the cause
of such corrosion, and the means of prevention.

   The new buoys* are precisely similar to the buoys, of the roost
approved construction, now used in Portsmouth Harbour. The
whole surface of each buoy is sheathed with copper, except the bot
tom and about three inches of the smaller end, which is covered
with lead, fastened to the copper by metal nails. A bolt passes
through the whole length of the buoy, and is terminated at each end
by a shackle. The lower shackle has a bridle patent chain fastened
to it by means of a bolt and a thin pin called a forelock, which is

such an important part that on its preservation mainly depends the

security of the ships moored to the buoyf. The bridle chain is se
cured to a larger chain-cable and moorings, by means of shackles,
bolts, and forelocks. The forelocks require to be examined about
once a year, and replaced if defective. The bolt, shackles, chains,
and forelocks are all of the best wrought iron.

    On examining the buoys the author found all the iron-work at
and near their bottoms very much corroded ; and the corrosion ap
peared to be most considerable on the iron in the immediate vicinity
of the lead, where it was about one eighth of an inch deep, and the
metal was so much indented as to exhibit a coarse fibrous structure.
So rapidly had the iron-work corroded in about six months, that
had it continued at the same rate for two years the buoys (in the
opinion of competent judges) would have been quite unfit for the public
service. The copper and lead attached to the buoys were in a good
state of preservation.

   The extraordinary corrosion of the iron-work appeared to be due
to an electrical action produced in sea water by the contact of the
iron with the lead joined to the copper, on the buoys ; these metals
being preserved at the expense of the iron. The author submitted
his views on the subject to the Commissioners, and suggested the
propriety of removing a circle of about three or four inches of lead

  v· The author exhibited a drawing of one of these buoys,
   t Some years since the Lord Lieutenant's yacht broke from her moorings
in Kingstown Harbour in consequence of the defective state of the forelock.
            TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                                    35

from the iron-work at the bottom of each buoy, and of driving two
or three short large-headed iron nails through the remaining lead

into the wood, in order to protect both the lead and copper covering

of the buoys from corrosion. These suggestions being promptly car

ried into effect, the author has during the last twelve months had
frequent opportunities of examining the state of the iron-work at

tached to, and in the immediate vicinity of, the buoys, and he states
that the removal of the lead has put a stop to the very rapid corro
sion of the iron-work.

The action of sea-water on iron, under ordinary circumstances,
is, as is well known, by no means inconsiderable. The author
found that a piece of iron chain weighing 14 pounds 5 ounces, when
                                             of sea-water,
exposed     for 24 hours  ion f5a%   quarts  of an ounce :  lost 70 grains,  and
in a. few  days upwards             quarter                 these facts led  him

to think it both desirable and practicable to coat the iron-work of

the buoys, &c. with a varnish or japan which should be impervious
to sea-water : and at the request of the Commissioners he made

many experiments, using different varnishes and japans ; but the

results obtained were for the most part of a negative kind, owing not

only to the action of sea-water on iron, but also to the constant fric

tion to which the metal must be exposed, from the unceasing influ
ences of tides, winds, and the strains from ships. He has hitherto
found no varnish or japan that he can recommend as a means of pre
venting, for any length of time, the ordinary corrosion or oxidation

of iron in sea water.
   The author made a number of experiments with a view to apply
metallic protectors to the iron-work connected with the buoys, on
the principle developed by the late Sir H. Davy. He found that
when small ingots of zinc were attached to pieces of chain cable in

sea-water, during several weeks, these lost no weight, and the cor
rosion of the zinc was inconsiderable. Hence it seemed obvious,

that zinc will protect iron from corrosion in sea-water. These re

sults were so satisfactory that the author recommended the expe

riments to be tried on the buoys, and the Commissioners immedi

ately requested him to carry the same into effect. He has had
under a course of trial for several months, in contact with the iron
work at the bottom of each buoy, two zinc protectors, each of which

is about 6 inches long and 4 inch wide, and weighs about 8 ounces ;
and on a recent examination, the iron-work near the zinc exhibited

a clean appearance. There is another and a still more recent ap
plication of the zinc, which the author thinks will be very beneficial
in protecting a most important part of the iron-work already alluded
to, namely, the forelock. Several of the forelocks have stout zinc
rings cast into holes made in their heads, and on lately examining a
forelock so protected for several weeks, it was found quite free from

corrosion.
   The late Sir H. Davy referred the corrosion of copper in sea-
water to the agency of the oxygen of the air. The author from his

experiments has obtained results which lead to the same conclusion

                                        d2
36 BRITISH ASSOCIATION. -- 1835.

with regard to iron. He found also that the corrosion of iron in
sea-water is materially influenced by the depth of water in which
the metal is immersed. He is of opinion that the wear of iron-work
exposed to sea-water is more considerable the nearer the iron is to
the surface or to the external air. The principal wear of the iron
work connected with the buoys seems to be at and within a few feet
of the surface of the water ; and this portion of the iron may be
protected by attaching strong pieces of zinc to it.

   The corrosion of iron in sea- water, under ordinary circumstances,
appears to arise from exposure of the water to the atmosphere, and
the consequent gradual absorption of its oxygenous part. The
protection of iron in sea-water by the contact of zinc seems due to

a simple electrical action between the respective metals and the
fluid ; water being decomposed, its hydrogen is evolved, its oxy

gen goes to the zinc, whilst the oxide of zinc as it forms seems to

be deposited on the iron, at least in part.

    The author made a number of experiments to ascertain whether
zinc would protect iron in sea-water if a very thin surface of glass,
wood, paper, tow, &c. were severally interposed between those me
tals, but the results seemed clearly to prove that actual contact of

 the metals is indispensably necessary to that effect.
    Zinc will protect iron in fresh water. The author has made ex

periments on this subject, and has others still in progress ; the re

sults of which may admit of useful applications to valuable parts of

machinery, &c.

    The author expressed his obligations to Mr. Hutcheson, the Har
bour-Master at Kingstown, for the kind and prompt assistance
he afforded on every occasion, and for the interest he took in the
progress of the experiments on the buoys, &c.

On some recent Experiments made with a mew to protect Tin Plate
or tinned Iron from corrosion in Sea-water, with some probable ap
              ; and on                Zinc to  Epdromteucnt dothDear vMy,etaFls.Rfr.oSm.,
plications     in the   the power of     By
corrosion
                        Atmosphere.
M.R.I. A., fyc., Professor of Chemistry to the Royal Dublin So
ciety.

If a piece of tin plate is exposed in sea-water for a few days, it
will exhibit an incipient oxidation, which will gradually increase ;
the tin will  be preserved at  the expense of                      will
corroded.                      surface of zinc   the iron, which         be
              But if a small                    is attached to a  piece
                                                                         of

tin plate and immersed in sea-water, both the tin and iron will be

preserved, whilst the zinc will be oxidated, on the principle first
made known by the late Sir H. Davy.
   The author has exposed for nearly eight months in sea-water a
surface of tin plate nailed to a piece of wood by means of tinned iron
tacks, inserting between the wood and the tin plate a small button
of zinc. Under these circumstances the tin plate has remained
         TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                                   37

clean and free from corrosion ; the zinc has of course been corroded.
In a comparative experiment, in which a similar piece of tin plate
was nailed to the same piece of wood, and exposed during the same
period to the same quantity of sea-water, without the zinc, the edges
on two sides of the tin plate were quite soft from the corrosion,
which had extended to about .Jth of an inch. These experiments
seem worthy of being repeated and extended.

   The present demand for tin plate is very great ; should these

statements be confirmed, a vast increase in its consumption might
be anticipated. The opinion may be entertained that it is practi
cable to substitute double tin plate for sheet copper in covering
the bottoms of ships, &c., using zinc in small proportion as a pro
tector. Such applications would probably occasion a saving of
nearly three fourths of the  present expense of
   It also seems deserving   of inquiry whether  copper sheathing.
                                                 tin plate vessels, pro
tected by zinc, may not be advantageously substituted for copper
vessels in many of our arts and manufactures, and even in domestic
ceconomy. Although it might be presumed from Sir H. Davy's ex
periments and observations* that zinc would protect tin plate from

corrosion in sea-water, the author is not aware that any direct ex
periments on the subject have been published. Sir H. Davy briefly
refers to some obvious practical applications of his researches to the
preservation of finely divided astronomical instruments of steel by
iron or zinc ; and that Mr. Pepys had taken advantage of this last
circumstance in inclosing fine cutting-instruments in handles or
cases lined with zinc. The author has not heard whether such ap
plications have succeeded, but he has made a number of experiments
with a view to protect brass, iron, copper, &c. from tarnish and
corrosion in the atmosphere by means of zinc ; the results obtained,
however, lead to the conclusion that contact with zinc will not protect
those metals in the atmosphere, the electricity thus produced, with
out the intervention of a fluid, being apparently too feeble to coun
teract the chemical action of air and moisture on the surfaces of these

metals.

On the comparative value     oMf.RIr.isI.hA.,an%d c.,VirPgroinfeiasnsor  Tobacco. By
   Edmund Davy, F.R.S.,                                                   of Chemistry

to the Royal Dublin Society.

   In the year 1829-30 the cultivation of tobacco in Ireland excited

much attention among agriculturists, and several hundred acres of
it were raised in different counties ; in consequence, the attention of
the Royal Dublin Society was directed to the subject, and the author
was requested by a select committee of that body to institute ex
periments on tobacco with a view to determine some questions of a

    · Phil. Trans, vol. cxiv. for 1824; or Phil. Mag., first series, vol. lxiv.
pp. 30, 233 ; vol. lxv. 203.
38 BRITISH ASSOCIATION. -- 1835.

practical nature, as whether its root contained nicotin, and in what

quantity, and to ascertain the comparative value of Irish and Vir

ginian tobacco.

   The author's experiments were made on average samples of Vir
ginian and Irish tobacco ; for the former he was indebted to the
kindness of Mr. Simon Foot, and for the latter to Messrs. Wild,
Cuthbert, Callwell, and Brodigan. From a number of experiments
the author was led to conclude that the dried roots of Irish tobacco
contain from four to five parts of nicotin in one hundred parts ; and
that one pound of good Virginian tobacco is equivalent in value to
about 2-v pounds of good Irish tobacco.

    After the author had finished his experiments it was gratifying
to him to be informed that some manufacturers estimate one pound
of Virginian tobacco as equivalent in value to about two pounds
of Irish. Hence there seems to be a pretty near coincidence be
tween their results and those derived from a chemical examination.

On Nieotin and some   of its Ctmbinations. By Edmund       Davtt,
                      fyc., Professor of Chemistry to the  Royal
  F.R.S., M.R.I. A.,
Dublin Society.

    When the author commenced his experiments in 1829 on Irish
and Virginian tobacco, nearly all our knowledge of the peculiar
principle in tobacco, called Nicotin by the late M. Vauquelin, was
confined to his paper on tobacco*. By a series of processes in which
the expressed juice of tobacco was reduced to one fourth of its
bulk by evaporation, then digested in alcohol, distilled, again con

centrated, dissolved in alcohol, then evaporated to dryness, dissolved
in water, saturated with potash, and distilled to dryness, Vauquelin
seems to have obtained a fluid nearly approximating to the nicotin
recently procured.

    In obtaining nicotin, the author avoided the circuitous processes
of Vauquelin, and adopted only the simple method of exposing to
bacco to the action of a solution of potash and subsequent distilla
tion. The alkali employed was in some cases weak and in others
strong. In some instances it was macerated on the tobacco for one
or two days ; in others, it was added to the tobacco in the retort
and distilled at once. Other fixed alkaline substances in solution,
as soda, barytes, strontites, lime, may be substituted for potash.
Distillation was occasionally carried on below, but in general at the
boiling-point. Under such varied circumstances, the fluid procured,
on being rectified by a second distillation, is an aqueous solution of
nicotin, having the following properties. It is colourless and trans
parent. Its odour closely resembles that of tobacco, but is far more
pungent. Its taste is peculiar, and leaves a sharp biting impression
on the tongue for some time. It changes turmeric paper to brown ;

                 · Annalet de Chimie, tome bud.
TRANSACTIONS O* THB SECTIONS.  39

but tbis effect is not permanent, but gradually disappears on expo
sure to the air. Its specific gravity (according to repeated trials

made by two intelligent pupils of the author, Mr. Richard Austin
and Mr. John Keogh, who assisted him in many of his experiments,)
is about that of distilled water. It neutralizes the mineral and ve
getable acids, forming peculiar salts, some of which the author has

obtained in a crystallized, and others in an imperfectly crystallized

state. It undergoes no apparent change by being kept in close
vessels for a considerable length of time. It is volatile below the
point of boiling water. It precipitates the greater number of metals
from their solutions, as those of silver, mercury, tin, antimony, man
ganese, of a white colour ; iron of a green, cobalt of a pink, and
gold and platina of a yellow colour.

   Salts of Nicotin. --A number of the salts ofnicotin, as the nitrate,

sulphate, &c., crystallize in four- and six-sided prisms ; they are cha
racterized by having a sharp biting taste, analogous to that of aqueous

nicotin : they are mostly soluble in water, and are easily decomposed

by a slight increase of temperature. The nitrate is so susceptible
of change, that it seems to undergo an incipient decomposition when
exposed in solution for a few hours, and assumes a reddish colour.
The author's experiments have led him to conclude that nicotin is
composed of carbon, hydrogen, oxygen, and nitrogen, but he is
not yet satisfied as to its exact constitution. He made some ex
periments to try the effects of aqueous nicotin on small fishes, flies,
moths, spiders, &c. A few drops of it diffused in a tumbler of wa
ter strongly acted on the nervous system of small fishes,, imme

diately communicating to them an unusual but momentary energy,

which was speedily followed by torpor.
    Butterflies, moths, spiders, were soon killed by being brought in

contact with a weak solution of nicotin. Common flies resisted its

action better than spiders, drones, bees, or wasps, and after immer
sion for a short time, again recovered on being exposed to the air for
a few minutes. Common caterpillars of a large size, on being taken
from cabbages, and instantly put into a weak solution of nicotin, ex
hibited some energy, but presently became insensible, and being
considered as dead were suffered to remain in the solution for about

half an hour ; they were then removed to fresh water, but exhibited
not the slightest symptoms of life, but on being placed on a grass-
plot near the house they all recovered, and were very active in the
course of an hour.

   The author is of opinion that aqueous nicotin may admit of a
number of useful applications, as in preparing specimens of natural
history for the museum, in preventing the destructive effects of the

insect tribes which infest plants and trees in gardens, conservatories,

&c. And it seems highly probable that the salts of nicotin will ad
mit of useful medicinal applications.

    After the author had ascertained the principal facts already stated
respecting nicotin, he found that he had been anticipated ; he ob
served in the ' Quarterly Journal of Science, Literature, and AttK' for
40 BRITISH ASSOCIATION. -- 1835.

December 1829, that MM. Posselt and Reimann had lately obtained

a vegeto-alkali from tobacco, examined its properties, and combined

it with a number of acids. But though those chemists are justly
entitled to the merit of having first made known to the public an
interesting series of facts respecting nicotin, the author's experiments
may serve to corroborate their general results, and also throw addi
tional light on the subject.

       On a Fluid obtained in the manufacture of Pyroxylic Spirit.
                                   By M. Scanlan.

The author has been for some time past engaged in the making
of pyroxylic  'spNiraitp, hathfalu')idasnoaw   extensively used in England (under
the name of                                   substitute for alcohol, principally by
hat-manufacturers, for the purpose of dissolving shell lac and mastic

to stiffen their hats and render them water-proof.
   In the process which Mr. Scanlan pursues, he obtains a fluid of

a higher specific gravity, but having a lower boiling-point than py
roxylic spirit, and differing from it in other respects.

   Rough pyroligneous acid is submitted to distillation in a copper
still, by the maker, in order to separate some of the tar it holds in
solution ; he sets apart the first 15 per cent, that distils over, and
this he sells as wood-spirit. This liquor, as it comes from die py

roligneous acid-maker, contains much free acetic acid and tarry

matter.

The author proceeds to saturate the acetic acid by means of
slacked lime, which causes the separation of some pitch.
He next submits the saturated liquor to distillation as long as
the distilled product is of less specific gravity than water.
This last product is rectified in a still somewhat on the plan of
those for a long time in use on
general use in this country, for              the  Continent, and now coming      into
                                              the
                                                   purpose of rectifying spirit.    It
consists of a boiler, containing the liquor submitted to distillation,
and of a rectifier, which is a copper vessel of peculiar construction,
placed in a bath of water, which must be kept at such a temperature
as will condense water, but still retain the more volatile products in
the state of vapour till they pass into the last part of the apparatus,

where they are condensed and finally cooled.

   In this process of rectifying, the author was a good deal sur
prised to find the product first condensed had a higher specific gra
vity than that which succeeded to it in the distillation. The first

being about "900, and the second so low as "830 ; to this, if the di
stillation be pushed far enough, succeed water and an oil which

becomes black by keeping. The fluid having specific gravity "900,
is a good deal coloured ; treated with animal charcoal its colour is

removed ; rectified from a water-bath after treatment with animal

charcoal, its specific gravity is ·911, and its boiling-point about

132°.
                TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                         41

   In this state it is colourless and inflammable : it has a powerful,
and to most persons a very disagreeable smell. Caustic potash de
composes it instantly, acetate of potash being formed, and probably
carbonate of potash. Tt forms acetate of lime also when slacked lime
is added to it. It softens copal, but dissolves very little of it. When
diluted with water it does not comport itself as alcohol of the same
specific gravity does ; 50 measures of it mixed with 50 of water at
the temperature of 54, were raised in temperature to 61, and a con
siderable quantity of air was extricated ; the mixture brought again
to the temperature of 54, measured but 96'5 measures, and its spe
cific gravity was "9861. Alcohol diluted so as to have specific gra
vity ·91 1, when similarly treated, measured 98, and its specific gravity

was "9659.
   Litmus-paper immersed in it is not reddened, but on exposure

to the air the fluid evaporates and leaves the paper permanently

red.

   It mixes with water in every proportion, and water may be sepa

rated from it by means of carbonate of potash as from dilute alcohol,
which is not the case with pyroxylic spirit.

On the Chemical Constitution of Fossil Scales, as illustrative of the
nAartutrheuorf   the Animals        which  they have  been  derived.  By
                Connell.      from

   The difficulty of determining merely from external characters
whether a fossil scale has belonged to a fish or to a saurian animal,

and the geological interest which that problem frequently possesses,

render it desirable to know whether chemical means are capable of

solving it.
   Mr. Hatchett ascertained that the scales of recent reptiles consist

chiefly of a horny substance, whilst those of fish contain a consider
able proportion of phosphate of lime, and are of the nature of bone.
Chevreul confirmed his observation as to fish-scales ; and the author
has found that the scales of small recent crocodiles contained little
more than one per cent, of incombustible earthy matter, although in

the carinated dorsal scales the amount extended to about 3 per cent.
When fish-scales are fossilized we may therefore expect that the bone-
earth will remain, and the perishable animal substance will either dis
appear without any substitution, or be wholly or in part replaced by

siliceous or calcareous matter; whilst, on the other hand, if a saurian
scale is mineralized it ought to consist almost entirely of some re

placing substance, such as siliceous or calcareous matter, coming in
place of the decaying animal matter and of little or no bone-earth.

    The author has analysed fossil scales from the three following
localities, and the result of the analysis he conceives to show the
whole of them to have belonged to fish :
42 BRITISH ASSOCIATION.-- 1835.

                                   Burdie-boujc.  Craighall  Tilgaw,
                                                     Coal.
                                                             60-13
Phosphate of lime                    50-94        55-75      27-94
Carbonate of lime                    11-91        15-86
                                     36-58        16-17        3-42
Siliceous matter                                               1-43
                                          "47       1-06
Potash and soda                                     2-82          ·82
                                          ·12       6-46      6-71
Alumina                ,
Bituminous matter and water * . .  Trace.
Phosphate of magnesia              Trace.

Animal matter

                                   100-12         98-12 I 100-45

   In the first of these the animal matter appears to have been re

placed by siliceous matter ; in the two others, partly by siliceous
matter, and partly by carbonate of lime.

   The author has had no opportunity of examining an undoubted

saurian fossil scale.

On the ComAcpiods.itionByanRdoPbreorpteJr.tieKsanoef,thMe .SDal.t,sMof.RS.uI.lpAh.o-MetAylic

    Professor Kane had been occupied with experiments on pyroxylic
spirit, in order to test the truth of Liebig's idea of its nature, and
had announced to the Royal Irish Academy the fact of the formation
of a peculiar acid, analogous to the sulphovinic, by the action of
sulphuric acid, before he received an account of Dumas and Peligot's
researches on that substance. The question of its nature having
been decided by their analysis, he restricted himself subsequently
to the development of the history of the sulpho-methylates, a de
partment of the subject on which the French chemists had but
slightly touched.

   The sulpho-methylates are easily prepared. A salt of lead may
be procured by mixing pyroxylic spirit with an equal weight of oil
of vitriol, and neutralizing by carbonate of lead. It crystallizes in
fine long rectangular prisms. A salt of baryta can be obtained in a
similar manner with carbonate of baryta. From either of these

salts the other sulpho-methylates can be obtained, by double decom

position, by means of a soluble sulphate.
   The sulpho-raethylate of potash crystallizes in pearly rhom-

boidal plates ; it deliquesces. Heated it gives water, neutral sul
phate of methylene, and sulphurous acid, leaving a carbonaceous
residue of sulphate of potash. The mean of three analyses gave
for its composition,

   · The Tilgate'scales contained carbon and sulphur instead of bituminous
matter.
TRANSACTIONS OF THB SECTIONS.                                                           48

Potash                   .                       29-61

Sulphuric acid                                   50·10
                                                 14-39
Methylic aether
Water of crystallization                           6-00

                                                 100-00

which agrees with the formula :

· 2 S+k+(xC + 8H+0) + H ·
   The sulpho-methylate  of baryta crystallizes
of two analyses gave                             in plates.                             The mean

Baryta                                           88-50

Sulphuric acid                                   40-21

Methylic aether                                  11-49
Water of crystallization                         . 9-80

This salt was analysed by Dumas.                   100-00
                                  His result :

Baryta                                           38-6

Sulphuric acid                                   40"4

Methylic aether                                  11-1
Water of crystallization
                                                   9-9

Both analyses indicate the same formula :        100'C

               2"S-T-Ba + (2C+3H+0) + 2H

   The sulpho-methylate of lime crystallizes in octohedrons, which
are anhydrous. They deliquesce, and by the mean of two analyses

are composed of,

Lime                                             21-41
Sulphuric acid                                   60-25
Methylic aether                                  1 8-34

                                                 100-00

giving the formula 2 S! + Ca + (2 C + 3 H ·+- O).
oswofhlTvsicheehvederniesnuatalodpnihalyslouy-slmpdeheesaltihqtoeyufleatosthcefiesm, seoaatflnhtdylegleaiavndreeesuvsaefunoradryllyistesuaolpcsbiohltymaatipdneoeescodiotfimoilsenpa,oidns.eldo,nTgbheepinrimgsmerase,n
Oxideoflead
                                                 4976
Sulphuric acid.
                                                 35-93
Methylic aether
Water of crystallization                         9-81
                                                 4'50

                                                                                100-00

giving the formula 2 Si + P6 -f (2 C -f 3 H 4- O) + H.
44 BRITISH ASSOCIATION. -- 1835.

    On two occasions a lead salt was obtained in plates like the
baryta salt, and apparently containing two atoms of water ; but Pro
fessor Kane has not determined the exact circumstances necessary
to the production of this form, and consequently its examination yet
remains to be made.

   The salts of copper, nickel, soda, ammonia, lime, magnesia, alu

mina, and iron have been formed by double decomposition, but their
properties would occupy too much space in describing. The mode

of obtaining them indicates their composition.
   All those salts that contain crystallization water, lose it (efflo

rescing) when dried over sulphuric acid. This method was em
ployed to determine the quantity of such water present.

   Dr. Dalton observed that he had analysed pyroxylic spirit some
years since (in 1829), and found it to be composed of an atom of
olefiant gas united chemically to one of water. This was inferred
from burning its vapours with oxygen in Volta's eudiometer. He
also ascertained that burning it in a lamp produced the same heat
as burning alcohol diluted so that the two liquids contained the same
relative quantities of olefiant gas and water. At the same time he
found pyroacetic spirit to be constituted of 3 atoms of carbon, 2 of
hydrogen, and 1 of oxygen, or rather 1 atom carbonic oxide holding
2 of olefiant gas : this was discovered by burning the vapour with
oxygen in Volta's eudiometer.

                    oRfoPbroetrotchJl.orKidaene,ofMPl.aDt.in, aMw.iRth.I.Protochloride
J.On
some  Combinations

      of Tin. By

    These bodies unite in two different proportions ; that containing

least tin is of an olive brown colour, crystalline, and very deliques
cent ; decomposed by much water, giving muriatic acid and mixed
oxides of tin and platina. The second, which contains most tin, is
of an intensely red colour, soluble in a small quantity of water, giv

ing a splendid red solution, but is decomposed by much water, giving
muriatic acid, and a chocolate powder which contains the proto-
chlorides of platina and tin and protoxide of tin. By acting on this
powder by ammonia, a black matter in crystalline grains is obtained,
which when heated burns like tinder, with formation of peroxide of
tin, and platina is reduced.

   The colour of the solution was found by Professor Kane, on ex

amination by a prism, to be an absolutely homogeneous red.

   Professor Johnston read a paper on the physical cause ofcertain

optical properties observed in chabasie.

   The nature and amount of the double refraction are found to vary
according to the course taken by the ray ; and this Mr. Johnston
conceives to arise from the fact of the index for quartz being nega-
            TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                                    45

tive, and that for chabasie positive, and from certain crystals of
chabasie including an excess of silica, which is a substance plesio-
morphous with chabasie. (Dr. Thomson stated that there are
two distinct species of chabasie, one of which includes soda and
the other lime, and from the admixture of which the phenomena

might perhaps arise.)

   Professor Johnston stated verbally the results of his analysis of
the single and double iodides of gold, results which he found to

correspond generally with those already obtained for the chloride.

   Professor Graham gave an account of some recent researches
which he has published in reference to the constitution of certain
compounds as far as respects their constituent water. He illus
trated his views by sulphuric acid, with 1 and 2 atoms of water,
by oxalic acid with 1 and 3 atoms of water, and by nitric acid
containing 1 and 4 atoms of water. Other compounds were also
adduced, such as oxalate of magnesia, which contains two atoms of
water, or that which may be considered as the water of crystalliza
tion of oxalic acid. The oxalate, binoxalate, and quadroxalate of

potash, and several other saline compounds were also brought for
ward in explanation of his views.

    Anhyd.oxal.a..(C + C)
    Oxal. water . . . . (C + C) H

    OxaLacid H(C.fC)2H
    Oxal. potash. . . K (C + C) H

    Binox. pot  k(C+C)H-f.(C-r.C)2H°-

     Quadrox.pot...K.(C + C)H + (C+C)2H+H(C+C)H*

   He then drew attention to ammonia, which he considered as fre
quently performing the function of water in saline compounds ; a
view which he impressed upon the Section by drawing attention to
the composition of the sulphate and of two distinct ammoniurets of

copper.

On  a  new  Method of testing  the  presence   ofGMeougrihaetigcanA.cid  in  Hydro*
                cyanic Acid.        Professor
                               By

   This proceeding is essentially preliminary to the adoption of the
usual modes of determining the strength of any given specimen of
this agent. The insoluble compounds into which the chlorine of
muriatic acid enters, and by the formation of which chemists usually

recognise its presence, are known to resemble, in many respects,
46 . BRITISH ASSOCIATION.-- 1835.

those to which cyanogen gives rise when combining with die i
bases. The method proposed by Dr. Geoghegan is founded on the
property which the double salt of the iodide of potassium and bi-
cyanide of mercury possesses of being decomposed by acids, and
then producing biniodide of mercury. This compound, which has
been analysed by Liebig, and subsequently by Dr. Apjohn, is easily
prepared by mixing, in the proportion of atom and atom, the iodide
of potassium and bicyanide of mercury, each dissolved in a small
quantity of hot water. After a short time silvery scales (resem
bling acetate of mercury) are formed, which constitute the salt in
question. The circumstance of this salt being decomposed by all
the ordinary acids, would appear to show that it is not capable of
demonstrating the presence of muriatic acid in particular ; but as

the only other impurities likely to be present in the hydrocyanic

acid are sulphuric and tartaric acids, if the appropriate tests of
these latter do not indicate their existence, then the formation of
biniodide of mercury on the addition of a crystalline scale, or solu
tion of the double-salt above mentioned, may be considered as fur
nishing conclusive evidence of the presence of muriatic acid. It

may be also     s--tattheadt,   that the  only  hydrocyanic acid likely to con
tain sulphuric                 prepared   from  the ferrocyanide of potassium --

can be generally recognised, as to the source from whence derived,
by its possessing a slight bluish or bluish-green tinge, which is
quite distinctive. The mode of detecting the presence of muriatic

acid above detailed has the advantage over those usually em

ployed, of being very readily applied, and the formation of the re
agent is perfectly simple ; it is capable of detecting 1 -4500th part
of the acid : if no change of colour ensue on the addition of the
salt, we may conclude that the specimen of hydrocyanic acid 'Con
tains no impurity which can interfere with the subsequent estima
tion of its strength. This method, however, is inapplicable to the
Ifalcoholized acid of Germany, as the biniodide is soluble in spirit,
yielding a colourless solution.                 the presence of muriatic acid

have been ascertained, its neutralization can be readily effected by
the addition of successive small portions of precipitated carbonate
of lime, as long as any is dissolved ; when free, muriatic acid has
been got rid of, and not till then can the estimate of the strength
of the specimen under examination be proceeded in with any hope
of a correct result.           The method    oordf inDarr.yUpruerpfoosrese,ffeicftinwge
                                correct for                                              this lat
ter end is sufficiently                                                                   substi

tute for the red precipitate which he employs, pure peroxide of
mercury ; as, independent of the presence of minium and other im
                precipitate is seldom, if ever,  free from pernitrate of
purities, red
                perfect accuracy be desirable,   the best method, and
mercury: if
probably as simple a one as that just alluded to, is the formation of
cyanide of silver by the addition of the nitrate of that metal.
TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.

On Bleaching certain Varieties of Turffor the   PurBpoyseR.oMf parolldeutc.ing
   a White Fibre for the manufacture of Paper.

The kind of peat used for this purpose is that which exists im
mediately beneath the vegetable surface of almost every lowland or
Hat bog in Ireland, and is found existing in a
                                                stratum frequently
of about three feet thick. It consists of the
                                                leaves and stems of
various mosses, the roots and fibres of many small aquatic and
marsh plants, &c. in the first stage of that very slow decomposition
which is the character of every peat moss.

   The fibres are tough, and retain perfectly, in most instances, their
original form, and are arranged more or less in parallel strata ; its
colour is a reddish brown, and its specific gravity, as obtained from

various bogs, varies from '360 to '650. It is proposed either to use
the fibre bleached from this for paper-making alone, or in place of

the various adulterations now used in paper from rags, such as
chalk, gypsum, clay, cotton-flyings, hair, leather-cuttings, hop-bines,
&c.
   The same material is capable without bleaching of being con
verted into an excellent species of board paper or mill-board, by
simple pressure under an hydraulic or other press, and subsequent
saturation in an exhausted vessel, with glue and molasses, drying
oil, rosin, and oil, or any other suitable material. When so treated,
it will withstand well the action of high-pressure steam.

   This species of turf contains from 3 to 11 per cent, of ashes
when humid, and when dried, merely atmospherically, from 4 to 6

per cent, of water. The ashes are of a white or yellowish white
colour, and contain,
Carbonate of lime
                                                69·5

Silica                                          3·0

Alumina                                         17"0

Peroxide of iron                                8·0

                      Loss                      2-5 100.

The author cannot account for the loss on this analysis, and has
been unable to repeat it. He states that ashes from the bottom of
the same bog where this red turf was obtained give a totally dif
ferent result, viz.
Carbonate of lime
                                                21 ·

Sulphate of lime                                5·5

Silica                                          24·5

Alumina                                         26'3

Oxide of iron                                   22'0

                      Loss                      0-7 100.'
The fibrous matter of this red turf is intimately combined with
various complicated, vegetable results of slow decomposition, but

containing in greatest proportion the extractive matter to which
Berzelius has given the name Geine, from yfj, terra. The extract
obtained from turf in the way about to be described seems to be
  48 BRITISH ASSOCIATION. -- 1835.

  nearly the same as that which he describes, in fact to be ulmin in an
  impure state.

     The specimen of turf to be bleached for paper is softened in cold
 water until its parts by agitation will separate ; the finer particles
 are washed off; the fibre which remains is digested in the cold with
 a very dilute solution of caustic potass or soda, containing only 50
 grains of alkali to a quart of water. The solution, containing the

  geine in solution, is pressed from the fibres ; the latter are then

 soaked for some time in very dilute sulphuric acid, consisting of 150
 grains of the sulphuric acid of commerce, in a quart of water. The
 iron is obtained in solution, and the ammonia if any exist in the turf.

 The fibre is now again separated by pressure from the dilute acid,
 and digested in the cold, with dilute solution of chloride of lime, of
  the strength commonly used by paper-makers to bleach fine rags.
 After the bleaching has taken place the fibre is strained from the
 liquor, well washed, and applied to the manufacturer's purposes.

     The extremely dark-coloured solution obtained by the caustic
 alkali is now treated with an excess of dilute sulphuric acid, and
 the acid of the previous washings may be in part used by the
 manufacturer for this purpose. The alkali is neutralized, and the

 geine precipitates. It is collected on a filter or by other suitable

 means, and well washed with cold water, and finally dried by a

steam bath, after which, if perfectly dried, it ceases to be soluble
in water. It may now be used either in oils or distemper as a

 colour, being a rich brown bistre.
    The solution from which it has been separated contains sulphate

of potass, and occasionally, in very minute quantity, sulphate of am

 monia.

    The quantity of soluble matter in the turf operated on was found
from 14 to 30 per cent.; and from one hundred weight of turf of
proper quality may be obtained about 18 pounds of fine white fibre
fit for paper-making, and a much larger proportion of a coarser and

less white description.

   When the turf is digested in the chloride of lime, a thin film of

an unctuous-looking matter floats after some time on the solution,
and by careful management may be obtained in small quantity ; it
appears to be a mixture of a gum resin with something analogous
to wax, and of artificial camphor.

    This substance smells like common camphor. Its specific gravity

is 0·990, which is a little more than that of camphor. It is at or

dinary temperatures always partly solid and partly fluid. When
deprived of adhering water it shows a tendency to crystallize ; the
more fluid part gradually evaporates when it is exposed to air, and
a varnish is left on the vessel which contained it. Its point of ho
mogeneous fusion is somewhere between 290 and 300 ; it evapo
rates rapidly between that and its boiling-point, which seems to be
about 360. As it boils away, its boiling-point rises ; it is insoluble
in water ; a great part dissolves in alcohol, and the remainder is
soluble in caustic potass and in fixed oils.
              TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                                                             49

   Proof spirit dissolves from it a very minute quantity of a sub
stance which seems to be a gum resin. It is entirely decomposed
by a red heat, in close vessels, and also by concentrated and boiling
sulphuric acid, which reduces it to charcoal, and a substance ap
parently analogous to artificial tannin.

    The bistre, or colouring-matter, obtained from the turf is not af

fected by carbonic acid, nor by sulphuretted hydrogen, nor by proto-
chloride of tin : strong nitric acid will not change its colour, although
by long standing it is decomposed by it. Chlorine bleaches it slowly ;

caustic alkalies redissolve it. It is scarcely bleached at all by the
sun's rays, nor does it when properly washed and dried show any
tendency to deliquesce ; it is therefore an excellent colour for pa
per-staining and other such purposes, as few common agents will in

jure and can be readily removed from surfaces by an alkali.
   The proportions of useful products above given can only be con
    a
       it,

                 it

                                 ;
sidered as approximations, having been deduced from experiments

on small scale they would probably be much increased, and the
relative expense of preparing the material reduced,
                                                            the process
                                                of
were carried on with greater quantities.
                                                                  it,
    On  some  singular              Phcenomena Flame  from  Coal-Gas
                                                                    if
                                      By R. Mallet.
                                                                                                     .

                                                                                          a
                                                                                             is
  If an Argand gas-burner be lighted, and a conical tube of ceraa

tain diameter be inserted concentrically within with its extremitya
entering certain distance, within the burner, and, while the gas in
itflamed, current of air be propelled through the conical tube in the
same direction with the streams of gas, under certain conditions, the
whole of the gas-flame will retract or be drawn back between thein itaaa
internal surface of the burner and the external surface of the conicalE
tube, and nothing whatever will pass forward but stream ofit
strongly heated carbonic acid and aqueous vapour. This very sin
gular phenomenon of the passage in opposite directions of two cur
rents in such close contact does not appear to be affected by the size

of the burner, provided a certain proportion be preserved between

   and the conical air-tube. The experiments were made with two
burners chiefly, one of which was three quarters of an inch internal
diameter and one inch and half deep, measured along its axis,
and the other seven sixteenths of an inch internal diameter, and one

inch and three eighths deep.

   With these was found that the retraction of the flame was pro
duced most perfectly in the case of the large burner by tube of
five sixteenths of an inch diameter, but yet took place to certain
extent until the diameter of the tube was reduced to one eighth of
an inch, and the case of the smaller burner was most perfectly
produced by an air-tube of three sixteenths of an inch diameter
                                                                                                        ;
50 BurrtaH associatton. -- 1835.

yet taking place in a slight degree with one of only one twentieth of

an inch diameter.

  If the conical air-tube be not inserted into the burner, but merely
held close to its base or lower aperture, no retraction takes place,
the flame is merely curtailed, and the combustion rendered more
           and the same result takes place when a tube equal in
perfect ;  the internal part of the burner is used, in which case  dia
meter to
                                                                   k is
obvious none of the flame could retract.
   To the perfect production of the foregoing effects it is necessary

that the apertures for the gas in the burners be of a much smaller
size and more numerous than usual. When the axis of the conical
air-tube is parallel with that of the burner, the direction of each
separate jet of flame from the holes in the burner is also parallel to
the same while the air-tube and burner are respectively concentric ;
but while they remain concentric, the axis of the air-tube be in
     if,
             a
                                             is a

                                                                                                   ;
                                                                                             a

                                                                                 it
                                                                                               is

                                                                                                                                      :

                                                                                                         is

                                                                                         it
clined to that of the burner, far more singular effect ensues each
separate jet of flame now in retracting describes spiral round the
internal surface of the burner, making from one third to perhaps

Ifone half revolution.
       the conical air-tube, while still inclined as above, be now brought
into contact with that side of the burner towards which  inclined,

the obliquity of the spiral   much lessened but the flame so
much retracted at the side of the burner opposite the air-tube that
makes its appearance out at the lower end of the burner. The same
effects are produced whether the burners are vertically, up or down,
or horizontal, or inclined at various angles, subject to merely the
disturbances produced by the ascent of the neighbouring currents
of heated air.
   The effects do not seem to depend upon difference of temperature

between the current of air and the flame, as no change produced
by heating the former to upwards of 600° Fahrenheit, neither does
the angle of the cone seem to be very essential, except be so great
as to nearly stop the aperture of the burner. A cylindrical tube
                                                         it                  a
                                                           is

                                                                        is,
answers equally well with cone, but an inverted cone, that
                             a
tube terminating with an enlargement, will not produce the effects.
                                 A
Tubes of various other forms produce corresponding variations
of the principal phaenomena.
                                    large flat disc, with an aperture

just large enough to admit the burner, placed close to its perforated
extremity, so as to prevent the passage of external currents parallel
to the internal current of air, does not change the effects.is

   The retraction considerably lessened, however, by stopping up
the space at the lower end of the burner, between        and the air-
                                                   it
tube, but not wholly destroyed.is
                                                                                    ;
     Another singular fact connected with these, remains to be men
                  glass or copper tube, of about three eighths of an inch
tioned  :  if

               a

greater diameter than that of the burner externally, be placed over
it,
     the same sonorous effect produced as in the well-known exis
periment of the combustion of pure hydrogen, but much louder

indeed, the copper tube used, which was eighteen inches long and
              TRANSAeT -<T8 OP THE SECTIONS.                             51
                             /

one and three eighths inches diameter, emitted a most overpowering

sound. Length of tube produced no variation in the state of the
flame, nor did increase of diameter over the above limits, although
both produced of course a change of musical note; but if the dia
meter of the tube, whether of glass or copper, was reduced to very
nearly that of the external diameter of the burner, on approach
ing the end of the tube with the burner, the retractile flame was
drawn forward, and, unless skilfully managed, was drawn out or

extinguished at the moment the burner entered the tube ;                 howif,
                                                                              a
ever, the introduction was successfully effected, the moment the
                                                                                   it ;
burner came within the tube the flame again retracted as before.
The sound ceased at the moment that the flame was extinguished.
   The pressure of gas used in most of the experiments was that of
                                                                  inch of water; that
the ordinary main-pipes in this city, about
                                                 a
                                                            a 1%
of the current of air, which was produced by good pair of double
                                         of column of
bellows,    was equal to the pressure                             (2o§f  inches of)
mercury       but was found that no      material alteration             effect took
   it         it

           ;
place from condensing the gas to about two atmospheres, and cau

sing to issue inflamed at that pressure, provided the pressure of
the current of air was likewise increased in the same ratio nearly.

   With less powerful stream of air than was above stated, the
          a

effects were imperfectly produced and with much more powerful
                                         it         is
one the flame was blown out.                           a
                                              ;            a
   The temperature of the current of air heated by the flame, whenby
  retracted best, was found, at the distance of four inches from theis
is it                                           It
             is
                  is

                               in

                             of
burner, to be 432° Fahrenheit, or perhaps little higher. The com
bustion of the flame in all the foregoing cases absolutely perfect
its colour a deep blue, and the volume of intensely heated air pro
                                         may be rendered very useful for
pelled        very great, so that

various purposes     the laboratory.                not perfectly dry, but

   free from dust or smoke.

On the Volatilization Magnesia Heat. By Professor Dahbehy.

   According to Von Buch, carbonate of magnesia must have been

sublimed by volcanic action, although such phenomenon would,a

Dr. Daubeny conceived, be scarcely admitted by chemists as con
sistent with the known properties of that earth.

       curious fact, however, confirmatory of the truth of Von Buch's
   A

opinion, occurred to Professor Daubeny in Italy. He visited lo
cality where there was an upper stratum of lava containing cavities.
In one of these an English gentleman, resident on the spot, discovered
   large quantity of carbonate of magnesia, and Professor Daubeny
a

himself observed minute portion of the same earth coating thea

outer surface of the lava. Here          it      difficult to understand in what
                                             is

manner this substance could collect in the cavities or upon the sur

face of the rock, unless had previously become volatilized by
                                   · it
heat.

                                         £
                                             2

                                                                                         S
52 BRITISH ASSOCIATION. --1835.

of  (mDarg. nDeasilatonmigohbtsebrveevdoltahtialitzetdh,eresinccoeuldDrb.eHneondryouhbat d  that carbonate
                                                                                             informed him

that a quantity of this substance was always driven off whenever the

heat was carried beyond a certain point.)

   Mr. Hartop made a communication on the' use of the hot air
blast in the manufacture of pig iron, in which he showed that the
saving said to be effected by the use of hot air had been overrated,
as a considerable portion of the alleged saving had been previously

effected by other improved processes.
    The general saving on the average he stated to be no more than

10s. per ton, and observed, that the price of such iron in the market
had actually fallen from 15*. to 20s. per ton, while that from cold air
at the same time rose 5s. per ton in Yorkshire. (This statement gave
rise to observations on the part of several gentlemen, who stated that
no such reduction in price of iron made by hot air had occurred
in other parts of the country, and that, as prepared in Glasgow and
many other places, it had not been deteriorated. This method has
in consequence been adopted in every smelting-house in Scotland,
and the annual produce of the works in that country during the last

ten years has been nearly doubled.
    Reference was also made to processes adopted in the Russian

smelting-works, which showed that by a judicious adjustment of the
quantities of cold air introduced by the blast, a saving could be ef

fected approaching even to that obtained by the use of hot air.)

Account of some Chemical Processes. By Francis Barker, M.D.,

                           Prof. Chem. Trin. Coll. Dublin.

    It has been known since the time of Bergman, that diluted acetic
acid has little or no action on peroxide of iron ; but it is not, per

haps, generally known that this oxide may be completely separated
from sulphuric or muriatic acid, and probably from most other

acids, by an alkaline acetate, the alkali exerting its usual action of
detaching the peroxide, whilst the acetic acid remains inactive and
                     and that by means of the acetate of potash,
does not unite with
       in
peroxide of iron may be completely detached from the oxide ofa
manganese, one portion of the acetate of potash decompounded by
                              it,
                                   it
                                         in
the salt of manganese producing acetate of manganese, which re
       state of solution, whilst the other portion of the acetate
mains

of potash separates the peroxide of iron, on which the diluted acetic
acid has no action. The advantages arising from this mode of
operating are obvious, as gives the chemical analyst the means of
separating the oxides of iron and manganese by agents easily ob
tained and in the hands of every chemist.

   As the success of this method depends in a great measure on at
                                             the mode of conducting the process,
tention to minute details
                 TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                                         53

more especially on the comparative quantities of the substances em

ployed, a few    e--xpFeirvime engtrsainasreoafdgdrueceend.  sulphate  ef iron  taken  and
    Experiment.
dissolved in fifty measured grains of cold distilled water : to this
added, from the end of a dropping-tube, six drops of diluted nitric

acid, spec. grav. 1'280. On applying heat to this mixture, it ac
quires a dark olive colour, arising from decomposition of the nitric
acid by the protoxide of iron and absorption of the nitric oxide by
the ferruginous solution. When the mixture is heated to ebullition
this colour disappears, and is succeeded by the ordinary yellow co
lour of a solution of peroxide of iron. To the solution of the sul
phate of iron, thus altered by the action of nitric acid, an aqueous
solution of acetate of potash, containing one tenth of its weight of
the acetate, is to be added, in the quantity of two hundred grains
measured. The mixture, on this addition being made, changes to
a dark reddish brown colour, nearly as intense as that of port wine.
The mixture is now to be diluted with its own volume of water, and

heat applied until it boils ; the ebullition continued for about two
minutes. The peroxide of iron begins to separate as the heat ap

proaches the boiling-point, and in a short time the whole peroxide
is detached. On filtering the mixture whilst hot, the fluid which
passes through the filter appears colourless, and on addition of the
the triple prussiate of potash, affords neither precipitate nor blue
tinge indicating the presence of iron. The powder remaining on
the filter, well washed with hot water, is of a clove brown colour.
   The addition of the nitric acid with subsequent ebullition is es

sentially requisite to the success of this experiment ; for if the

green sulphate of iron be employed without the addition of nitric
acid, on adding the solution of acetate of potash, and causing the
mixture to boil, no change of colour to reddish brown is found to
take place, but a black powder separates, and the mixture when
filtered affords a fluid of a strongly ferruginous taste, yielding an
abundant precipitate, of a bluish white colour, with the triple prus
siate of potash ; thus proving that the conversion of the oxide of
iron into peroxide must precede the addition of the acetate of pot
ash, which is otherwise incapable of separating the oxide of iron

from the acid.
When a solution of the green muriate of iron is treated in a man
ner similar to that above described, by converting the protoxide of
iron into peroxide by nitric acid, and decompounding the solution by
acetate of potash and heat, the same effects are produced as in the
Ifgreen sulphate of iron.

       to a solution of peroxide of iron, produced by the method
above described, a solution of the oxide of manganese is added,
then solution of acetate of potash and heat applied, a similar depo
sition of peroxide of iron takes place ; and the filtered liquor, on
addition of triple prussiate of potash, affords a cream-coloured de
posit unmixed with any blue tinge : the peroxide of iron has there
fore remained on the filter, and the oxide of manganese in solution

                                                                                            .
54 BRITISH ASSOCIATION 1835.

has passed through, yielding its proper precipitate with the triple
prussiate. It is right to observe, that a solution of the muriate of
manganese is not rendered turbid by admixture with acetate of pot
ash and subsequent application of heat.

   It follows from the preceding experiments, which have been many
times repeated, that peroxide of iron may be completely separated
from either sulphuric or muriatic acid by acetate of potash, and that
in a mixed solution of peroxide of iron and oxide of manganese in
an acid, a complete separation of the peroxide of iron may be ef
fected by means of the acetate, provided that proper attention has
been given to the comparative quantities of the ingredients employed
in the mixture. Acetate of soda or of ammonia may be substituted
for acetate of potash in producing this decomposition.

   Two other chemical facts were adduced.
   1. As the precipitation of the ammoniacal phosphate of mag

nesia is accelerated and made manifest by drawing lines with a blunt

glass rod on the internal sides of the glass vessel in which the proper
mixture is made for producing the precipitate, a fact first noticed
by the late Pr. Wollaston, so in a similar manner the separation
of bitartrate of potash from any mixture containing potash, to which
tartaric acid has been added in proper quantity, will be accelerated

and rendered manifest by drawing lines with pressure on the inter

nal sides of the vessel with a glass rod, the crystals of bitartrate first

attaching themselves to these lines.

   2. That nitrate of lead like the nitrate of baryta is precipitated
from water by addition of strong nitric acid, which in each case ex
erts a similar action, namely, that of abstracting the water from the

salt.

O/i a Source of Inaccuracy in Observations of the Dew-point.                                              By the
                    Rev. Wm. Vernon Harcourt, F.R.S.

   Mr. Harcourt having observed an apparent variableness in the
deposition of dew on different surfaces, at the same temperature and

in the same atmosphere, was led to make the following experiments.

   A pane of glass was rubbed, on different portions of its surface,
with substances of different degrees of hardness, and left till the
equality of temperature was restored : being then breathed upon, it

was observed to show the condensed vapour in proportion to the
polishing power of the substances by which the different parts of the

glass had been rubbed ; characters traced by a leaden point dis
played this phaenomenon in the greatest perfection. The experi

ment was next tried on metallic surfaces, by polishing, for instance,
part of the blade of a rough razor, and breathing on
a                                                                                                       when the

           it

                                      a
                                                                                      it,

                                                                                                       a
same effect was obvious.

When the state of the dew on the different surfaces was examined

with lens, appeared that its greater visibility on the more po
lished parts was owing to stronger reflection of light from greater
number of minute and unconnected drops deposited on those parts.
                TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                                 55

It would seem as if the process of polishing insulates the points to
which the particles of vapour attach themselves, and prevents them
from running into each other ; but though the vapour condensed on
the polished surface thus becomes more sensible, it is not increased

in quantity, as is easily proved by continuing to breathe on the pane
of a window till streams of water run down on the unpolished surface,

and on that only ; and it is not a little remarkable, if the polish be
also carried horizontally along the lower part of the pane, to observe

the streams dammed up where they meet the polished part, and

drops of water left along that portion of the line.
   The observation of these facts led the author to apply some prac

tical corrections to the ordinary method of ascertaining the dew-
point : he adopts the direct process of Dr. Dalton, reducing the
scale of the operation, and substituting metal for glass. A highly
polished metallic vessel, not more than .Jths of an inch wide and

14 inch long, is nearly filled with water ; some crushed sal ammo
niac is introduced; the salt is stirred up and mixed with the water
by the bulb of a small thermometer, which falls in consequence

Ifvery gradually, and when the dew appears the thermometer is in
contact with the surface on which it is deposited.        a consider

able depression of temperature is required, the vessel may be
cooled down previously to the experiment by a similar process. This
instrument, from the small quantity and cheapness of the cooling
material, may be used constantly at little cost, and from the con
ducting and radiating properties of the vessel, as well as the pre
cision with which it indicates the first deposition of dew, may pro
bably be found to be uniform in its results.

Mr. Moore exhibited a leaden pipe which had served for about
twenty years as the worm of a still for the distillation of medicated
waters and spirits ; at length it began to leak, and on examina
tion it was found to be supported at various points by bars of

it                               and to be tied at others with twine. Wherever
                            it,
wood crossing
thus came in contact with either wood or twine,
                                                    a it  was deeply
corroded, and the lead appeared to be converted into dark powder,

which, when examined, was found to contain oxide and chloride
of lead at all other points the pipe was perfectly sound. The ap
pearance of the corroded parts did not admit of the effect being
attributed to mechanical action. The presence of chloride and
oxide  in ;

                         ;

                       it
       the powder, established, he thought, that the corrosion
was not entirely, if at all, caused by acids formed by the decaying

organic matter                   appeared to him that ought rather to be attri
                                        it

                                               a
buted to galvanic action, developed by the contact of the metal, and
wood, or twine, which cause, acting for such length of time, might
be sufficient to accomplish the destruction of the pipe at the points
of contact.

   Mr. Ettrjck, referring most of  the  u"nfDoartvuynaltaempe"xplosuiosnesd,iswhich
                                   the                                        to the
have happened in collieries where
56 BRITISH ASSOCIATION. -- 1835.

ignorance and wilfulness of the workmen, proposed a plan for the
security of the lamp from injury and mismanagement.

    Professor Graham noticed with regard to safety lamps, on the
theory of which he has been some time engaged, that wire gauze is
rendered much more impervious to flame by being first dipped in an
alkaline solution, which also protects the wire from oxidation.

  On a new Electrometer. By William Snow Harris, F.R.S., $c.

Report of the  Committee appointed  to consider tlte  subject of  Chemical

                      Symbols. By   Dr. Turner.

   [This Report, with the remarks of several  of the   members of the
Committee, will appear in the next volume     of the
                                                       Transactions ot

the Association.]

                   GEOLOGY AND GEOGRAPHY.

On the Geological Map of Ireland. By R. J. Griffith.

Mr. Griffith presented his Geological Map of Ireland, the result
                             labour, assisted in part  by the publica
of many years' research and  Buckland, and Berger.     Mr. Griffith, in
tions of Weaver, Conybeare,
pointing out the inaccuracies of existing maps of Ireland, dwelt on
the advantages which will be derived from the publication of the Ord
nance maps of Ireland, four counties of which have now appeared.
At present great difficulties attend the allocation of geological phe
nomena, which are frequently misplaced in relation to each other,
from the necessity of following the defects of the old maps. Mr. Grif
fith, as an example, stated that in Arrowsmith's map, Benwee Head

is placed twenty miles north of the parallel of Sligo, though it
is actually due west of that town. The remarkable position of
the mountain masses was first pointed out. They occur on the

margin of the island, and inclose the great central limestone plain ;
an arrangement which shortens the courses of the rivers, rising as
they do in the higher grounds, and rapidly descending to the sea.
The Shannon is an exception, having a course of 140 miles ; but it

also is affected by the peculiarity alluded to, its stream falling eighty
feet in the first twenty miles of its course, and only eighty feet more
in the remaining 120. On the great plain which occupies the centre
of the island numerous beds of gravel occur, called Escars, which
though constant in direction when considered in reference to small
spaces, are variable when the comparison extends over greater

limits. Mr. Griffith considers the great bogs as due to these accu
mulations of gravel, which, by damming in the water, facilitate the

growth of Sphagnum palustre. Under the bogs are deep deposits of
marl, underlaid by clay and gravel, which further support the idea
of ancient lakes. The marl was stated to be in one instance forty feet
              TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.             5J

thick. Mr. Griffith, confining himself on this occasion to the sedi
mentary rocks, commenced his illustrations by those of a more

crystalline character, such as gneiss, mica slate, &c. ; and stated
that he considered the great groups of Ireland as corresponding to
those of Scotland, particularly the Northern to the Grampians, and
the Mourne to the Dumfriesshire mountains. The general direc
tion of stratification is N.E. and S.W., though in Tyrone it is more
nearly N. and S., being referred to a local axis ; and in the south
nearly E. and W. The beds of primary limestone, associated with
the primary schists, are not continuous, though they occur in lines :
when intersected by trap dykes, they become dolomitic. The quartz
rock, which is also associated with these schists, is sometimes very

remarkable. At Dunmore Head it has the structure of orbicular
granite, or of some varieties of trap, for which it is often mistaken.
Mica slate is unequally distributed : it is abundant in the north and
west, less general in the south, and deficient in the Mourne or Down
district. Mica also, as a mineral, is not general, being in the Mourne

mountains often replaced by hornblende. Proceeding to the trans
ition schists, Mr. Griffith stated his conviction that they would re
quire subdivision, whenever materials had been collected for the
purpose, in the same manner as those of Wales had been divided by
Mr. Murchison. For example, in the older schists, neither conglo
merates nor organic remains are found. In the newer greywackes,
the slates alternate with sandstone; and again, in the still newer

strata, limestone, containing fossils, alternates with the upper por
tion of the schists. The old red sandstone is also considered by
Mr. Griffith  thdeivimsiobulentainintolitmweostoornet.hreeMsru. bGsreicftfiiothnst,hethnedeuspcpreibredalttehre
nating with
several coal-fields of Ireland, pointing out the distinction between
those of the north and south, bituminous coal being confined to the
northern collieries. The more recent sedimentary rocks were then

briefly described, more especially the new red sandstone, which un
derlies the lias and chalk on the S. and E. of Antrim, and is also

found in Monaghan, and may be traced thence through Tyrone and
Deny to Lough Foyle, and round Lough Foyle to Donegal.

   Having previously described the sedimentary, he now entered on a
description of the crystalline rocks considered as rocks of intrusion.

In the Wicklow range, extending to Brandon, the granite contains no
hornblende, and, as previously noticed by Mr. Weaver, occurs some
times as beds in mica slate. In the Mourne or Down range, the gra
nite contains hornblende, which frequently predominates over the
mica. In Wicklow, mica slate, passing into gneiss and clay slate,
abuts without disturbance against the granite. In Down mica slate is
wanting, and the other schistose rocks are frequently disturbed. In
western Donegal mica slate and quartz rock are abundant, the
quartz rock being developed to a great extent ; and in Galway also,

associated with mica slate, quartz rock is extensively diffused. In
both these counties granite occurs, and the crystalline stratified

rocks are referred to as affording distinctive characteristics of its

several localities. The phenomena usually exhibited by granite

                                                                                                                 s
58 BRITISH ASSOCIATION. 1835.it,
                                                                                     is
veins are frequently observable, such as their passage through the
adjacent schists, detached portions of which are often enveloped;
in their substance, and the change they effect in their structure.
Mr. Griffith next described the older and newer trap districts, mena it
tioning many interesting particulars connected with them, such as the
capping of quartz rock by greenstone, the concentric arrangement
of the beds of greenstone in Donegal, and the occurrence of quartz
rock bertween two beds of greenstone, the quartz being columnar,
the trap, above and below not. In Slieve Gullin greenstone and
granite were stated to be actually mixed together, whilst in Carling-
ford the contact of the sienite (or greenstone) with the granite
concealed by debris. After noticing briefly the ochre beds which
so often separate the beds of basalt, and expressing his belief that
the trachytic porphyry of Sandy Brae in Antrim was nothing more
than this ochre indurated by heat, Mr. Griffith adduced the fact of
beds of sienite traversing the cliffs of Murloch Bay, and containing
detached portions of chalk, as proof that the sienite was posterior
in appearance to the chalk and gave as his opinion that all the
crystalline rocks had been fused, and in most cases projected from
beneath through the sedimentary rocks, the appearance of regular
strata being due to their projection in direction parallel to the
strike of the beds.

   Mr. Griffith stated the existence of an extensive mari deposit in.
Wexford, some of the shells of which appeared to correspond with
those of the crag.

On a small isolated Patch Granite which occurs in t/ie County

                   Cavan. By Lieutenant Stotherd.
it                                                                                    it
    is                                                                                   is is of
                  is

                            a
                                  by

                               of

                                                             is
The superficial extent of this granite                           about seven square miles,
and separated from the nearest group of primitive rocks, that of
the Mourne mountains,      the grauwacke or transition schists. This

small district  entirely surrounded by transition and secondary

rocks, and exhibits all those changes in the structure of the sedimen
tary rocks which are usually observed on their approach to, or con
tact with, rocks of decidedly igneous origin, the schists becoming
indurated and often changed to quartz rock. The appearance of
primary rocks so far removed from any of the greater masses
extremely important in geological speculation, and assists in this
instance in explaining the broken and detached character of the
schistose hills, and the induration of many of their strata, since
probable that the granite
                           is  at no great distance from the surface

in the whole space between the Cavan primary rocks and the
Mourne mountafts, of which they may be considered an extension.

Copies of a map of the geology of the environs of Dublin, accom
        by                                                                            Dr. Scouler,
                                                                                  by
panied  a memoir, were presented to the Section

Professor of Geology to the Royal Dublin Society.
                          TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                               59

On Eleven Trap Dykes in the Counties of Mayo and Sligo, run
ning East                 and West for great distances. By Arc/ideacon                Ver-
schoyle.
                           (Printed in Proceedings of Geological Society.)

                                                                                  «.

On  certain  Fossil       oPfoLlyimpeasrtioanefouHnidlls.in  Alluvial  Deposits       in the vi
             cinity                                          By Dr.
                                                                       Jacob.

   The specimens were Lithodendra, of the species usual in the car
boniferous limestone of England, the coralline lamellae being replaced
by silica, and the limestone partially removed by water containing
carbonic acid. Similar cases are frequent in the North of England :
the circumstances under which they occur appear to Dr. Jacob to

deserve special inquiry.

On the Silurian and Cambrian Systems, exhibiting the order in
which the older Sedimentary Strata succeed each other in England
and Wales.                By Professor Sedpwick and It. I. Murchison,
V.P.G.S.

   Mr. Murchison described a great group of fossiliferous deposits
which rises out from beneath the old red sandstone. To these rocks,
which he has termed in descending order the Ludlow, Wenlock, Ca-
radoc, and Llandeilo formations, (each distinguished by peculiar or
ganic remains, and frequently by subordinate limestones,) it was
found essential to assign a comprehensive term, since they consti
tute one natural system interpolated between the old red sandstone
and the slaty rocks of Wales. He observed that it was well known
to all practical geologists, that in consequence of the recent ad
v"atnracenssitoiofn"t,he   science, it  was absolutely imperative
                          under which   such rocks would formerly                 that the term
                                                                                  have been de
scribed, should now be abandoned, since it had been so used, both

by Continental and English writers, as to embrace the whole car
boniferous series, from which the system under review was not only
separated by the vast formation of the old red sandstone, but was
specially to be distinguished by its fossil contents. Urged, therefore,
by many geologists to propound an entirely new name for the class
of rocks which had engaged his attention during the last five years,
Mr. Murchison recently suggested (See Lond. and Edinb. Phil.
M" aSgtl.u,riaJunlySy1st8e3m5,,"  p. 48.) that the group      should be termed the
                                  the name being derived     from the ancient British

people, the Silures, who under Caractacus made so noble a stand
against the Romans, and within whose territory the rocks under con
sideration are fully displayed. Mr. Murchison then pointed out, that
wherever the limestones and typical characters of particular forma
tions were absent or obscure, it was always practicable, over a re
gion of 120 miles in length, extending from the neighbourhood of
the Wrekiri and Caradoc hills, in Shropshire, to                                  tphaertsw, esttheco"aLstudof
lPoewm"broaknedsh"irWe, enltoocks"epaforarmteatitohnes,grofourpms inigntothtewo"  Upper Silurian,"

                                                                                                                S
60 BRITISH ASSOCIATION. 1835.

the " Caradoc" and " Llandeilo" the " Lower Silurian rocks". He
further remarked,  that in  mSoeumthberWaolfetshehe"   had traced many
passages from the  lowest                              Silurian system"  distinct
                                                                         into the
u"nUdpeprleyringCamslabtryianro"cks, now named by Professor Sedgwick the
   This communication was illustrated by Ordnance Maps extending
over large parts of eleven counties, coloured in the field by Mr. Mur-

chison.
   Professor Sedgwick commenced by pointing out the imperfection
of the sections exhibited in the North of England, and some por
tions of North Wales, in consequence of the entire want of conti
nuity between the carboniferous series and the inferior schistose
groups. Some of the latter are fossiliferous both in Denbigh
shire and Westmorland ; but in the interrupted sections of those

counties it is impossible to tell how many terms are wanting to com

plete the series to the old red sandstone and carboniferous lime

stone. In the country described by Mr. Murchison these difficulties

do not exist, and his sections   'haPvroefefsislloerd  up a wide chasm in the
                                                       Sedgwick then described
succession of British deposits.
in descending order the groups of slate rocks, as they are seen in
Wales and   Cumberland. To the highest he              gave the name of
Cambrian    group. It occupies the greatest            part of the chain  Upper

                                                                          of the
Berwyns, where it is connected with the Llandeilo flags of the Silu

rian system, and is thence expanded through a considerable portion
of South Wales. In one part of its course it is based on beds of lime
stone and calcareous slate ; but on the whole, it contains much less

calcareous matter than the Silurian system, and has fewer organic re
mains. Beds of good roofing-slate occur, and a perfect slaty cleav
age is often observed in it transverse to the stratification ; but other
parts of it are of a coarse mechanical texture. To the next inferior
group he gave the name of Middle Cambrian. It composes all the
higher mountains of Caernarvonshire and Merionethshire, and
abounds in fine roofing-slate, alternating with, and apparently pass
ing into, irregularly interstratified masses of porphyry. Some por
tions of it are coarse and mechanical, and it contains (for example,
at the top of Snowdon,) a few organic remains, and a few examples
of highly calcareous slates, but no continuous beds of limestone.
The same group, with the same mineral structure, and in the same
position, but without organic remains, is greatly developed in Cum
berland. The Lower Cambrian group occupies the S. W. coast of
Caernarvonshire, and a considerable portion of Anglesea : it consists
chiefly of chlorite schist, passing here and there into mica schist and
slaty quartz rock, and contains subordinate masses      of serpentine and

white granular limestone. It contains no organic       remains. Beneath
                                                                          in
the Middle  Cambrian system (above described) there occurs                of
Cumberland  (for example, Skiddaw Forest,) a great formation

dark glossy clay slate, without calcareous matter, and without organic

remains. It passes in descending order into chiastolite slate, mica
slate, hornblende slate, gneiss, &c., which rest immediately on gra
nite. Whether the Lower Cambrian was to be placed on the exact
            TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                                                         61

parallel of these masses in Skiddaw Forest, the Professor did not de

termine.

   Professor Sedgwick explained the mode of connecting Mr. Mur-
chison's researches with his own, so as to form one general system.
He pointed out also the limit, as at present known, of fossils, none
having been hitherto discovered in the Lower Cambrian schists, and

remarked in reviewing the general phenomena, that geological epochs
were not effected by shocks, but, like everything in nature, were

under the dominion of the usual laws of causation.

        Notices of the Geology of Spain. By Dr. Traill.

   The author gave a sketch of the results of his personal researches
in the geology of Spain, restricting himself, however, to a few only
of the more striking peculiarities. He stated that it was an error to
suppose all the mountain chains of Spain branches of the Pyrenees,
from which they are in many cases completely separated. The va
riety of climate, and circumstances produced by the union of these
mountains with the elevated table lands of New Castile, which is two
thousand feet, and of Arragon, which is two thousand five hundred
feet above the sea, had very peculiar effects on the flora of the coun
try. Dr. Traill pointed out the identity of character which existed be
tween the granites and schists of Spain and England, and proceeded
to the newer strata ; described the brine springs and salt lakes of
Andalusia, and the deposit of salt which forms part of the base of
the plain of Grenada. He also showed that lias and true chalk, with
layers of flint, occur in the South of Spain, and confirmed the state
ments by Colonel Silvertop, of the tertiary deposits of Spain. Dr.
Traill further observed, that bones are found in the fissures of other
hills in Spain besides that of Gibraltar.

On certain Disturbances        ieHnxaistrhtietnogCp] o.VaallleSytsra;tailluosftraYtoerdkshbyirea  having a
                                                                                                  Map and
remarkable  BRyelaHtieonnrtyo
Sections.

    M. Agassiz presented the fourth and fifth livraisons of his
work on Fossil Fishes, and stated, that by the great addition of 300
species which had been obtained from the cabinets of these countries,
the total number had been raised to about 900. He then advanced

some general views on the conclusions to be drawn from the geolo
gical distribution of fishes, and explained the precision in determining
epochs which their higher state of organization and consequent
susceptibility to external influences afforded. The fishes of the car
boniferous period were different from those of the lias ; the fishes of
the lias different from those of the oolite ; and those of the oolite
from the fishes of the chalk : and as it must be presumed that fishes
living together so coexist from the necessity of their organization,
and its adaptation to attendant circumstances, it must also be pre
sumed that their disappearance was the result of a change in the
62 BRITISH ASSOCIATION. -- 183S.

 conditions of the earth's surface. In estimating the effects of such
changes, it is necessary, M. Agassiz observed, to distinguish between
general phaenomena affecting, as it were, the lawB of nature, and
those of a mere local character, such as volcanic eruptions. The
local phenomena may indeed have been similar to those of the pre
sent time, but the elevations of mountain chains are evidences of a
more general class of phaenomena, which have affected organic life,

constituting thereby the various zoological epochs which may be

traced in the earth's strata. It was in such periods of violence and

change that the beds of any one system were deposited, the animals
coexisting at the time being, according to the more or less suscep
tible nature of their organization, more or less completely annihi
lated ; and it was in the tranquillity which followed, that new beings
were formed, and lived to tenant in like manner the strata of another
system, which should result from another epoch of disturbance.
M. Agassiz produced, as an example of sudden destruction, a draw
ing of fossil fishes crowded together in a very confused manner,
such as could only have arisen from an instantaneous catastrophe,
arresting them, as it were, in a moment.

   M. Agassiz then, at the request of Professor Sedgwick, explained
those characters, such as the position of the fins, the arrangement
and size of the scales, &c., by which the fishes of different geological
eras may be distinguished, referring especially to those of the old

and new red sandstones.

I.   On British Fossil Astacida?, rfieir  Zoological  aPnhdillGipeoslo, giFca.lR.RSe.,
    lations. 2. On British Belemnites.
                                          By John
    G.S., Professor of Geology in King's College, London.

   [The leading results of these two communications, which form
part of a general investigation of British organic fossils, undertaken
at the request of the Association, will be given in the next volume
of Transactions.]I.

    Notice  of a newly    discovered Tertiary Deposit on the Coast  of

              Yorkshire.     By John Phillips, F.R.S^ fyc.

    Two hundred yards north of the harbour of Bridlington, near the
situation where Professor Sedgwick and the author and other oh-

servers had suspected and looked for tertiary beds, a wasting of the

low cliff had disclosed to a small extent layers of greensand and
clay, both, but especially the former, containing shells, &c. Diluvial
clay and pebbles cover and partially confuse this deposit. Of 55
species of fossils from these beds, which are in Mr. Bean's cabinet
at Scarborough, a very small number (four) belongs to the crag, a
very small number (five or six) to recent species* and the greater
proportion is extinct. On comparison of the facts known concern
ing this deposit, the crag, the Touraine beds, and certain other fo

reign tertiaries, Professor Phillips founded an argument concerning
            TRANSACTIONS OF THB SECTIONS.                                            63

the limits of error in the application of Mr. Lyell's test of the age
of tertiary formations by the numerical relations of the species of
fossils which they contain to recent forms. It appeared to Pro
fessor Phillips that these limits were wide, and that a method of
such power and value must not be applied without great caution.

   A letter from Charles Lyf.t.l, F.R.S., Pres. G.S. to Professor

Sedgwick, on the fossil shells of the Suffolk Crag, considered in
two divisions, according to the views of Mr. Charlesworth, was
read to the meeting.

Account     of Fossil  Trees  inJamtheesattSitmudietho, fgFr.oRw.tSh .,inotfheJoCrdoaalnMHeaisllu.res
      near
             Glasgow.     By

    The trees in question were discovered at Balgray Quarry, imme
diately adjoining the aqueduct over the Kelvin, about three miles to
the north of the city of Glasgow.

    The quarry abounds in the usual coal plants, laid horizontally ;
in one part of it a number of trees were found standing in an up
right position, throwing their roots out in all directions, to all ap
pearance in the attitude in which they grew, without fracture or
disturbance. They rest upon, and are imbedded in, strata of sand
stone, which are horizontal, or nearly so. The stems terminate about
two feet above the roots, the superincumbent bed of stone passing

over them as if they had been cut off. They are about two feet

and a half in diameter, and are placed as near each other as trees
of the same size could grow. No internal structure was observed,
but from the ramification of the roots and of fragments of branches
found near them, and the external appearance of the bark, which is
channeled or furrowed, the author presumes that they were dicoty
ledonous.

On  certain Fossil     Plants  from   Dthae voidppoWsitielliaShmorse,s Fo.Gf .tShe.  Bristol
                                Rev.
          Channel.     By the

   These fossils were collected by the author in Devonshire and Pem

brokeshire, from shales alternating with anthracitic coal (cuhn);
and he states that, after a careful examination, he was led to con
clude positively that the strata of the true localities belong to very
different geological aeras, that of Devon extending from Bideford to
South Molton, being a true ' transition' coal, imbedded in ' transi
tion' schists, and that of Pembrokeshire and Caermarthenshire be

longing to the coal-measures above the mountain limestone. On the
similarity of these plants found in formations of such different age,
the author founds objections to the hypothesis of secular refrigera
tion ; and the speculation that the atmosphere in early geological
periods was charged with a greater quantity of carbonic acid gas ;
and proposes the case as at least an exception to the law, that strata
may be identified by their imbedded organic remains.
64 BRITI8H ASSOCIATION. 1835.

OnMathneglSeusrvDeyenohfamthe,  Mersey   and the Dee.                      By Captain Henry
                                        Resident Marine                    Surveyor of the Port
                                R. N.,

of Liverpool.

Captain Denham exhibited his trigonometrical survey of the
Mersey and Dee, including the extensive sand-banks and channels
of Liverpool bay, which, being delineated on the scale of four inches
to the mile, afforded a detailed development of the submarine undu
lation, illustrative of his remarks on the action of the tidal stream in
connexion with those differently shaped estuaries. The self-choking
effects of the Dee, with its expansive mouth and gradual contraction,
resembling a lateral section of a cone, were contrasted with the
scouring effects of the Mersey, its contracted mouth and attenuated
throat resembling a lateral section of a bottle with" its neck pointed
seaward. To this figure of the estuary of the Mersey, Capt. Den
ham ascribed the impetus of its expansive back-water, which has re
cently forced a channel of half a mile wide, and two miles long, and
twelve and thirty feet below the low-water level, through sands,
situated eight miles outside its coast-line confines, at a tangent to its
regular course. Thus a most valuable and unexpected channel has
been produced for navigation, and a compensating escape provided
for its waters at a time when an injurious deposit was taking place
across its usual path, where the efforts of the ebb become evanescent.

The position was ascertained by Captain Denham to be fourteen miles
below the docks, or tidal straits, where the first impulse amounts, (and
continues so five hours out of six) to five miles per hour on spring
tides. The form of this channel corresponds to the contour of in

cidence and reflection throughout its whole course, and indicates the
exhaustion of the velocity of the water by expansion in the propor

tion of 14- to 25. It proves also the certain power of the Mersey to
command a navigable avenue to the ocean, so long as its guardians
preserve the high-water boundaries from artificial contraction.
   In the course of his professional duties, Capt. Denham proposes

to himself a further investigation of the proportions of silt, &c. held
in suspension and gradually deposited, as well as a determination of
certain peculiarities in the vertical range of the tides with reference
to atmospheric elasticity. He has already, by the liberal arrange

ments of the dock-trustees, been enabled to connect a series of ob

servations, even to jive-minute grades, during the twenty-four hours.
From these, by extensive tabulary interpolations, the half-hourly rise
and fall upon every stage of the moon was determined, and the ma
riner enabled at a glance to know what water existed in excess of

his chart, and hence when certain subsidiary channels were passable,
or the several banks might be crossed. He had thus ascertained
the tidal establishment, or the time of" high-water upon full and
change of
a standard  --thefomr ogorand, uaantdingdetfeurtmurienedtidea-ngoatuhgeer  constant proportion as
                                                                           operations, for testing
soundings hereafter, for fixing a
when levelling eminences, canals,        point of   &dce.p, a--rtvuirze.    for engineers
                                        railroads,                         the oscillating

point, or mean centre which every six hours is common to neaps
    TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.               65

and springs, and quoted by seamen generally as the half-tide
mark. Capt. Denham is not as yet prepared to state whether
some small constant difference might not be found as to the instant
of the half-elapsed time of spring-tide, high and low water, and that
of neaps, producing the actual half-range of tide to inches ; but so
satisfied is he of a closer approximation than is generally allowed,
that, though he would never propose to adjust soundings to that

half-tide level, because the mariner would have to make variable
allowances to ascertain the least water he was to expect in the
channel before him, yet he would suggest for scientific and frequent
practical references the desirability of engraving on some rocky
spot of every harbour, and sheltered portions of coast, the well-de

fined half-tide level, dated ; for, on the assumption that such a
level is (no matter what the whole amount of rise and fall differs),
in the same latitude, equidistant from the earth's centre, then we
have a standard of obvious importance to science. By reference to

this constant level those discrepancies may be adiusted which attend
engineering operations, designed to cooperate on opposite sides of an
isthmus, where the vertical range differs, and either high or low
water level separately be started from, instead of the mean centre
of each range, i.e. half-tide level.

    The Rev. Wm. Whewell made the following remarks for the
purpose of exemplifying the application of physical science to geo

logical researches.
   1. The permanence of the level of mean water, which Capt.
Denham has recently proved by trial at Liverpool, suggests the
proper mode of making such observations on the permanence of
the relative level of land and sea, as were formerly recommended
by the Association. In tidal seas the level of the ocean must,
for such a purpose, be estimated with reference, not to the height
of high or of low water, which is variable on many accounts, but
to the height of mean water. This mean water is to be obtained
                                                 intervening low water,
by  taking at least  two  high waters and the
or  two low waters   and  the intervening high  water. A very few tides

will give a near approximation to the true mean level ; but the
more there are taken, the more accuracy will be obtained. This
mean level must, of course, for the purposes now spoken of, be re

ferred to some durable mark in the solid ground. 2. The pheno
mena of terrestrial magnetism, being apparently connected with the
internal constitution of the earth, are of interest to the geologist.
According to the most recent researches of Hansteen the earth has
four magnetic poles, all of them revolving in the neighbourhood of
the geographical poles ; and the periods of these revolutions are 're
spectively about 4600, 1740, 1300, and 860 years. These times,
though long as historical periods, are short compared with many of
those cycles of which geological researches and astronomical calcu
lations prove the existence ; and it is impossible not to feel a great
curiosity respecting the nature of the subterraneous changes which

take place in such periods. It concerns the geologist therefore, no less
                          F
66 BRITISH ASSOCIATION. 1835.

than the physical philosopher, to further the progress of our know
ledge of terrestrial magnetism. 3. The heat of the interior parts of
the earth has always been treated of by those who have established
the theory of heat upon mathematical principles.
                                                                                 They have
hitherto considered it as proved, upon such principles, that the in
crease of temperature of the substance of the earth as we descend,
proves the reality of an original heat. But M. Poisson, in his
Theorie de la Chaleur just published, dissents from this opinion, and
is disposed to assign another reason for the higher temperature be
low the surface. He observes that the cosmical regions in which the
solar system moves have a proper temperature of their own ; that
this                        Be different in different parts of the
and   temperature    may    the earth would be some time in                      universe ;
                    be so,                                                       acquiring
      that if this

the temperature of the part of space in which it has arrived. This
temperature will be propagated gradually from the surface to the

interior parts. And hence, if the solar system moves out of a hotter
into a colder region of space, the part of the earth below the surface
will exhibit traces of that higher temperature which it had before
acquired. And this woidd by no means imply that the increase of

temperature goes on all the way to the centre. Though these opi
nions may not gain the assent of geologists, it may be proper that
they should be aware that such have been promulgated.

On t/w Geographical Position of Cape Farewell. By Dr. West.

The chief object of the memoir was to show, That Cape Farewell,
so named by Davies in 1585, is not, as stated by Egede, Crantz, and
Giesecke, on the island     of
                            it  ;--SeTrmhaetsoSkt,atbeunt.Hoonekanoisthneort,    island many
miles to the south-east of                                                       as generally
laid down in charts, a promontory on the southernmost extremity of
the main land, nor     yet, as stated in
an inlet, but that it  is identical with             the Edinburgh     Review (No. 59,)
                                                     Cape Farewell,     and received its
name, which signifies the States' Promontory, from the Dutch na
vigators. Dr. West also showed that this fact, though now appa
rently quite unknown in these countries, was understood and plainly
stated  nearly ninety years ago in an English                                    Account
        Voyage in the California in 1746 and               work,       Drage's
of the                                                     1747.

The memoir was accompanied by a copy of Graah's Chart of
Greenland, the latest and most correct extant, from which it appeared
that Giesecke, in his account of Greenland in Brewster's Edinburgh
Cyclopaedia, and in his map of that country in the 14th voL of the
Transactions of the Royal Irish Academy, has placed the island of
Sermesok nearly a degree too much to the south ; that no part of
othfethmeacinoalsatndofcGorueldenlpaonsdsib;lyanbde
                                                     seen  from the    open sea  to the south
                                                     that  the island   most to
                                                                                 the south of
the strait Ikareseksoak is the only one on which is a cape answering
to the description given by navigators of Cape Farewell
Dr. West concluded his memoir by expressing his opinion that
Captain Graah, by his having satisfactorily ascertained that there
TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                                            67

was no trace whatever of a colony on the east coast from its southern

most extremity to lat. 65° 307, has completely established the correct
ness of the opinion of Eggers that the {Esterbygd, or eastern settle
ment, was situated on the south-west coast, in what is now Juliane-
shaab s District; and that it received its name merely from the fact
of its being to the east of the other settlement, the Vesterbygd.

ZOOLOGY AND BOTANY.

On the Principles of  Classification in   the Animal Kingdom in ge-
  neral, and among    the Mammalia
  Agassiz.                               in particular. By Professor

Although the principal groups of animals are impressed with
such characters as to be easily recognised and to admit of little
doubt, yet their order and succession have been determined by no
general principle. This appears from the discrepancy in the posi
tion assigned to them by the most eminent systematists, each of
whom has assumed arbitrarily some organ or system of organs for
the basis of his arrangement. Professor Agassiz, after adverting to

some German naturalists    who alone have    so"upghhitlosaofptehric  a  general
principle which should   be satisfactory to                              natural

ists," passed in review the classes of the animal kingdom, each
of which, he stated, exhibited in an eminent degree the develop
ment of some one of the animal functions. While Vertebrate ani
mals (with Man their type) arrive at the greatest perfection in
the organs of the Senses, the Invertebrate offer in the class of
Worms the representative of the system of Nutrition, in Crustacea
of Circulation, in Insects of Respiration, and in Mollusca of Genera

tion. The Professor next proceeded to demonstrate in what man-

nar each subclass of vertebrate animals derives its peculiar charac
ter from some one element of the animal ceconomy.

This predominant element is the bony skeleton in Fishes, the mus
cular structure in Reptiles, the sensibility of the nervous system in
Birds, and the perfection of the senses in Mammalia, which there

fore reproduced the distinguishing character and constitute the type

of vertebrate animals. He next showed that each of the other sub

classes of the higher group is represented among the Mammalia
along with its own peculiar type. He explained his reason for the
fourfold division which he had adopted in the subclass, pointing out
the close affinity which connects the Ruminantia, the Pachyder.

mata, the Rodentia, the Edentata, and the herbivorous Marsupialia,
(in none of which is the true canine tooth developed,) which he con
siders as forming a single group ; in another he unites those cha
racterized by the presence of the canine tooth in its proper function
(as an instrument of nutrition, not merely of defence), viz. the
Carnivora and those Marsupialia which partake of their character,

and the Quadrumana. The Cetacea form a group in themselves ;
68 BRITISH ASSOCIATION. 1835.

                                         "  The  manner  in which    these represent the sub

and Man another.
classes of Vertebrata was exhibited by the comparison of

              Cetacea,                           with Fishes,

              Ruminantia, &c.                            Reptiles,

              Carnivora, &c.                             Birds ;

while Man is the perfection and type of the mammiferous confor

mation.

   Prof. Agassiz then applied this principle to illustrate the order
and succession of the groups in Mammalia by a reference to the or
der in which the fossilized remains of the Vertebrata occur in the stra
tified deposits : 1. Fishes, 2. Reptiles, 3. Birds, 4. Mammalia. From
the same consideration results the following arrangement of the re
presentative groups among these last: 1. Cetacea, 2. Ruminantia,
&c., 3. Carnivora, 4. Man, who thus in a twofold aspect becomes
the culminant point of the animal creation.

Observations  on the Zoology                     oBfytheJaImslaensd  of Rathlin,  ofMf" tahersNhoartlhi,
   ern Coast
              of Ireland.                                            Drummond
M.D.

    The zoology of Rathlin does not offer any new species in addition
to those hitherto found on the opposite coast of the county Antrim,
and this notice was laid before the Association rather to mark the
habitats of some species than to add anything to what is already
known.

    The only Mammalia frequenting the island are, the Norway Rat,
the Common Mouse, the Shrew Mouse, and the Hare. The latter

is but rarely seen, and not being able to procure a specimen, the au
thor cannot say whether it is the hare of Great Britain or that

jtlately ascertained to be a species, or rather perhaps a variety, pecu

liar to Ireland.
   In Ornithology, so far as the author could ascertain, there are abdm

60 species, comprising 32 land and 28 water birds. From the situation
of the island, its precipitous cliffs, and the consequent faculties for
incubation, many species of water birds choose it for a summer re
sidence. The most common species are the Lams Rissa, Larus
argentatus, Larus Canus, Aha Tarda, Fratercula arctica, Uria
Troile, Uria Grylle, Phalacrocorax Carbo, Phalacrocorax cristatus.

    Although all the above-mentioned species are plentifully distri
buted, the Larus Rissa, or Kittiwake, is by far the most numerous ;
every headland round the northern shore of the island was tenanted
by this common though beautiful species. In company with it were
found the Alca Tarda, Fratercula arctica, and Uria Troile, all
living in harmony with each other ; the Puffins occupied the earthy
patches which here and there occurred between the basalt and lime-
stone of which the rocks are chiefly composed, while the three for
mer tenanted every pinnacle and ledge of rock not otherwise oc
cupied. The Uria Grylle inhabited one of the headlands on the
              TRANSACTIONS OF THE tfeCTIONS.                                                                                  69

southern extremity of the island ; but their numbers were by no
means equal to those of the Uria Troile or Area Tarda. The my
riads of fry of different species of fish, particularly the Launce, or
Sand-eel, furnish an ample supply of food to the various sea-fowl
frequenting Rathlin.

    The Fishes of this island do not differ from those found on the
northern shores of Ireland. One of the most common species is the
Coal-fish {Gadus carbonarius). This on the Irish coast is .called,
in its different stages of growth, Pickoc, Bloc/tan, Glashan, and Grey
Lord, and corresponds, according to Dr. Neill, to the Sillock and
Pillock of Shetland, the former name being applied to the fry, and

the latter to the fish when a year old.
   The Cod-fish is but rarely procured, there being but one cod-bank

(which is called Skirnaw), lying between Rathlin and Isla in Scot
land.

   The Lithe, Ling, Plaice, and Turbot are occasionally caught ; and
during summer the Grey Gurnard and one or two species of Wrasse
are plentiful round the shores.

   The Fifteen-spined Stickleback ( Gasterosteus spinackia) has been
found in the pools on the shore, and in the rivulets and ponds the
Short-spined Stickleback ( G. brachycentrus).

NoBrtiicoyeuLssieoPufatrt.th-seCooGfle.tWohge.rHaWp.ShorivcldaKlERbsua,tnFg.pReri.noScf.ipcaelrlytaintoBIinrddsia  common to va
                                                                                                                     and Europe.

^drcaetus brackydactylus, Vieil-1 India      France.

Aquila chrysaeta                     India and Europe.
Falco Tinnunculus                    India and Europe.
                                     India and Cape of Good Hope.
Chicquera                    /Europe, and only slightly differ-

CUircus cyuaneus             -^         ing ^ India.
                                             Java, and Cape of Good

                                   Hope.     (Very like                                                            Strixflam-
                             {Indmiaea, of   Europe.)
JA Swallow hardly distinguishable }
                                     T  ,.
   from H. rustica of Europe ...
Alcyon Smyrnensis                    Smyrna and India.
Alcedo rudis                         Dukhun and Cape of Good Hope.

Muscipeta (longtailed white  and) S,,out.h,  AAfen.ca       ,  ITnd,,.a-
   chestnut) ...                                       and
                                   }
                                             and North America.                                                               A

                                   species or variety                                                              in  India  very
                             {Eursolipghetly different.
                                     f Europe, India, and Cape of Good
Oriolus Galbula
             melanocephalus          ( Hope.
                                      India and the Cape.

Cape Thrush (Ixos Coffer)            .India and the Cape.
70 BRITI8# ASSOCIATION. -- 1835.

Ixos fahatus                       "  Dukhun and Philippines.
Lesser Whitethroat
Bitdytes citreola

Stonechat                             .AH found in Europe and India.
Phcenicura Suecica
Emberiza melanocephala

. i hortulana

Common Sparrow                        India and the Cape.
Pastor roseus                         Cape and India.
                                      Cape and Dukhun.
Coracias Indica

Hoopoe (not of Europe)
Leptosomus qfer

Cuculusfuaax                   1      Eastern Mands and Dukhuu.

Centropus Phwppensis )                Europe and Dukhun.
Cueulus caiwrus

Cinnyris aurucaria                    Cape and Dukhun.

           Mahrattensis               Philippines and Dukhun.

Columba risoria                ·      Senegal, India.
              atlas                   India, China, Europe.
                                      Wild in India.
Peafowl

Common Fowl                           Ditto.

                                              India, Cape, Arabia, Bar-

                                             bary, Europe.    (Not migratory
                                      {Chiinna,India and    the Cape.)

Pterocles exustus                     Asia Minor, India.
Francolinus spadiceus
                                      Madagascar and India.
                                              to India, the Cape, and

                                      Europe, or to two of these

The Sacred Ibis of Egypt              {Comcomunotnries.

same as the Indian Ibis.              is believed by Col. Sykes to be the

Ibis falcinellus                      Europe and India.

Green Sandpiper      ...  "t]         .....Common to Europe and India.
Wood Sandpiper
                     ...
JCommon Sandpiper
Totanus Ochropus                      Hudson's Bay and India.
Common Snipe...)                      TInd_,..a and,· E^urope.
Jack Snipe...^...}
                                      Cape and India.
Rhynchcta                             India and Europe.
                                      China and India.
Pdidna Temminekii                     Java and India.
Jacarw,                               Madagascar and India.
                                      Europe and India.
Gallimda                              India and Cape.
                                      N. America, Europe, India.
Porphyris                             Java, India, Europe.
Coot

Cursorhu Asiaticus
Golden Plover

Himatitopus melanopterus

Anas strepera                  ")

Rhynchaspis virescens >               India and Europe.
Mareca Jistularis              J
        TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                            71

--Querquedula circia "|     India and Europre.

-- - · recca i

JJ<uligiuarii/inaj
cristata ...
                            North coasts of Great Britain and
                            Dukhun, 100 to 200 miles in

Sterna Anglica           t  land, and 1800 feet above the

                            sea, with similar changes of

                            plumage from summer to win

                            ter.

   Besides the instances of identity above quoted from specimens in
Colonel Sykes's own cabinet, others are mentioned of such close ana-
logy as to render their specific difference extremely dubious. Many
species of birds of different natural groups and habits are thus proved
to have an extensive geographical range, under considerable differ
ences of mean temperature. Deducting those species, which do
or may be imagined to migrate from one region to another, there
remains abundant evidence, derived from continually resident birds,
that some birds live in India with a mean temp, of 77° to 82°, and
in Britain with a mean temp, of 45° to 50°. Connecting these facts
with the instances of tigers living near the limits of perpetual snow,
and elephants and Indian birds braving our winters, Colonel Sykes
concludes that the power of acclimation possessed by many birds
and other animals is very considerable, and capable of useful appli
cation to a question of practical importance, viz. the necessity of
employing artificial heat generally in our vivariums, and to the cu
rious geological problem of the climate of the globe when elephants
and tigers were inhabitants of the northern zones.

    [Captain James Ross, in corroboration of these views, stated that
the Stonechat, Whitethroat, and Golden Plover were inhabitants of
Hudson's Bay, and that the Raven also occurs in the Arctic Circle,
without being subject to change of plumage.]

On the  Infra- Orbital   Cavities in Deers  and Antelopes.  By

                           Dr. Jacob.

   [This paper having been drawn up in compliance with a recom
mendation of the Association, will be printed in the next volume
of Transactions.]

On a Mode of preseCrhviangrlesEchMinaodyenrem.ata.  By the Rev.

   In the year 1828, being at the sea-side, Mr. Mayne collected many
Echini for examination ; and the house not being large enough to
afford him a separate room, he used chloride of lime to prevent in
convenience to the family from the smell. He soon perceived that
the Echini steeped in th» solution did not lose their spines ; he ac
cordingly tried to preserve them with all their spines on, and sue
72 TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.
ceeded completely. He has since tried this process with man)·.
Echini and small star-fish. The preparation should not be so strong
as to act. sensibly on the surface of the crust, as in that case he found
that the spines would fall off.

On Pentacrinus    Europaeus and a  SRp.ecBieas lol.f  Beroe'  taken  in Dublin

                          Bay. By

   Specimens of these were exhibited to the Meeting. The Beroe
has been examined by Mr. R. Patterson of Belfast, who finds it to
be a new species of the genus Pleurobrachia of Fleming. It has
been also taken in Larne Lough, Antrim.

Account of a    ToBadyfoTu. nLd.  alive imbedded in  a solid Mass of New Red
                                  Gooch, Resident    Engineer on the London
    Sandstone.
and Birmingham Railway. Communicated by Mr. Sturge.

The following is an abstract of the statements contained in this

communication.

In the excavations for the London and Birmingham Railway, in
the Park Gardens at Coventry, the earth was opened to a depth of
eleven feet on the 16th of June 1835; the section presented soil
                                                  three feet, masses of red sand
eighteen inches,  mixed sand      a'ndbacclkasy'  and fissures, but requiring the
stone, somewhat    severed by

use of iron bars, and occasionally powder. One of these masses, near
the bottom of the excavation, having its three dimensions eighteen,
fifteen, and five inches, being lifted and thrown towards a wagon,
fell on the ground and broke nearly through the centre ; the divided
parts lay about an inch asunder. One of these fragments having
been thrown into the wagon, a Toad was observed in a cavity or
cell in the face of the remaining fragment, and was projected thence
in consequence of the workman kicking the stone. The other frag
ment of stone being reapplied to its fellow, it was found that an

oval cavity existed in the centre, which had no visible communica

tion to the surface.

The cavity of the stone in which the Toad is said to have been

imbedded was lined with a thin black deposit ; on one side of the
cavity, which was more rounded than the other, this deposit was
most visible.
   The colour of the Toad was at first bright brown ; in ten minutes
it had grown almost black : it seemed oppressed, and gasped fre
         ; was rather under the
quently  condition, but seemed    usual size, but plump,      onantdheaphpeaarde. ntlIyt
in good                           to have been injured

was replaced in the hollow of the stone, the crack having been stopped
with clay, and died in four days.

   The Rev. Dr. Drummond stated that, from observations lately
made by him, the Gordius aquaticus seen* to be viviparous.
               TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                                 73

On the Action of Light on Plants. By Professor Daubeny.

Professor Daubeny reported the progress which he has made in
his experiments on this subject since 1833, when he communicated
the results obtained up to that time to the British Association at

Cambridge. At that period he had ascertained that the quantity of

carbonic acid decomposed by a plant was in proportion, not to the
chemical or heating influence of the ray transmitted to but to its
                                              it
                                                                it,

                                                                                  aa
illuminating power he has since found that the functions of ex
               ;:
haling moisture by the leaves, and absorbing by the roots, depend
upon the same law with this difference, however, that, provided
some light be present, a body radiating much heat will serve as
substitute for one transmitting a greater degree of light. Thus,
solution of ammonio-sulphate of copper, which absorbs and conse

quently radiates much heat, nearly as efficient in causing the ex
               ;

                           it

                                     is
halation and absorption of moisture as glass, which transmits the
entire spectrum and in proof that this does not depend upon any
peculiar power residing in the violet ray, water obscured by ink, so
as to produce an equally feeble illuminating effect, was found, in
consequence of the heat radiated, to produce an equal degree of
exhalation. Yet when the plant was covered over by opake bodies
radiating much heat, the amount of moisture exhaled was very in

considerable.

Professor Daubeny has employed, in his experiments on plants,
the light emitted by balls of lime ignited by the oxy-hydrogen jet,
but could not discover that
                                     exerted  any influence  on the quantity
of moisture exhaled by them.
a
                                                                             Conifers
                                  it
                                   of
                                                                     of
Observations   on the Structure Horizontal Branches                                    ·

                         By William Nicol.

   In paper on the structure of recent and fossil Coniferce, inserted
in Professor Jameson's Philosophical Journal for January 1834, the
author gave an account of a very striking difference he had observed
in the structure of the opposite sides of a piece of the wood of Taxo-
dium disticha. The pith was much nearer one side than the other,
and the narrowest was of paler colour than the broadest side. The
               a
                                  a
narrow side showed the usual structure of the true Pines in all the

three principal sections, but the broad side in the transverse sec
tion possessed greater degree of solidity than the narrowest side,
and in both the longitudinal sections the vessels were filled with de

cussating fibres, and the discs were not only more sparingly bestowed
but were also smaller and more obscure than those occurring in the

other side. At the time this wood was examined he did not know
whether was a portion of stem or a branch. He has since as
it
        it
                     a

                                a

                                                       ;
                                                                          ;

                                                it
                                                         it

                                                           it
certained that was horizontal branch, and then became inter

esting to determine whether the difference of structures was peculiar
to the piece of wood in question whether
                                              occurred in both the

stem and branches of Taxodium disticha whether was peculiar
 74 BEITI8H ASSOCIATION. 1835.

to that kind of wood; or whether it was a general feature in the ho
 rizontal branches of other Coniferce.

     The first step in the investigation was to procure another branch
 of Taxodium disticha. This he did last summer, and marked the
upper side before the branch was cut off. The structure of this
 branch agreed in every respect with that of the branch formerly ex
 amined, and the pale-coloured or narrowest side was the uppermost.
The next step was fo ascertain whether the stem of Taxodium di
sticha agreed in structure with the branches. For this purpose the
author requested Mr. James Maenab, of the botanic garden of Edin
burgh, to bring him from America a portion of a stem. This he
 was so kind as to do last winter. The stem was five inches and
three tenths thick in the longest diameter. The pith was nearer one
side than the other by three quarters of an inch. The surface of
 the cross section was of a uniform pale colour, with the exception
of a spot surrounding the pith nearly an inch in diameter, of a
 slightly darker shade. On examining a number of sections of this
 stem, they were all found to agree with coniferous stems in general,
and showed not a trace of the structure occurring in the under side of
 the horizontal branches.

    Having thus ascertained that in Taxodium disticka the differ
 ence of structure alluded to was peculiar to the horizontal or nearly
 horizontal branches, the third step was to determine whether any
other coniferous horizontal branches agreed in structure- with
those of Taxodium disticka. With this view Mr. Nicholas lately
procured branches of ten different species of Pines, and has found
them all agreeing in structure with those of Taxodium disticha. The
pith is always nearer the upper than the under side. The upper or
pale portions have discs similar to those of the stems, and show no
trace of decussating fibres in the vessels or spaces containing the
discs. The under or darker-coloured portions have fewer, smaller,
and more obscure discs than those contained in the upper part, and
the spaces between the vertical partitions in both the longitudinal
sections have decussating fibres, which, however, are often finer and
more crowded than those in Taxodium disticha.

   It may be right to remark, that in coniferous horizontal branches

the pith is always more or less eccentric, and that in some instances
the eccentricity is great. In a branch, for example, of the black
spruce, the cross section, which is somewhat ovate, has a vertical
diameter of three inches and three tenths. The distance of the pith
from the upper side is only half an inch, and from the under side it
is two inches and eight tenths. There are thirty distinct annual layers
in the under side ; but these thirty layers, when crowded into the space
of half an inch in the upper side, are so minute that they can scarcely
be enumerated. This, however, is an extreme case, the pith being
in general less distant from the centre. The branches of some pines,
particularly the larch, are nearly cylindrical, but even in these the
pith is always out of the centre.

   But although the upper and under sides of many, perhaps all, co
niferous branches, present a different structure, yet such a difference
   TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                                                  J5

is not entirely confined to the branches. In some few stems a similar
difference has been seen in the opposite sides. In a stem of Pinus
Cedrus, for instance, one of the sides was of a pale colour, and had

the usual structure ; the other side was of. a darker colour, and had

a structure similar to that of the under side of horizontal branches.
Another portion of the same kind of wood, however, was of a uni
form colour, and had throughout the usual structure. A young
stem of Pinus larioia had a structure similar to that of branches,
and the same was observed in an upright stem of Cupressus semper-

virens.

   On Uie Formation of Wood. By D*r. West.

   Dr. West exhibited a specimen of Bog Yew, in which, from the                  it,
non-adherence of two successive annual layers, the central portion                   it,
of the heartwood, though in close contact with the surround
ing portion, which constituted the greatest part of the bulk of the
tree, was throughout its whole extent perfectly distinct from so
as to present the appearance of small tree which had grown up
through the centre of large one, adapting itself completely to its
cavity. He considered this singular phenomenon to be the result of

  severe frost, which had either frozen very thin layer of albur
   a
                    a

a                                                        a
                                                                  a
num, so as to destroy its vitality, and thus prevent the next-formed          a
                        or else, without absolutely destroying
layer from adhering toa
              a

                           a
                                it,

                                                   ;
had so affected its exterior surface, as to produce the same result.

He expressed doubt whether this exactly answered to the lesion
called by the French gelivure and produced a drawing, copied from
one by Decandolle, of section of a juniper tree affected with that
lesion, in which the diseased layer was of comparatively considerable
thickness, whereas in his specimen there was no appearance what

ever of diseased layer, however thin, nor any space where such
could have been. He alluded also to another lesion, mentioned by
Duhamel, called roulure, which consisted in the non-adherence of

the annual layers, and so far appeared to have greater resemblance
to the case under consideration but for want of more detailed
                                                      ;

account he did not venture to pronounce whether they were iden
tical. He next entered into the consideration of how far this case,

and still more that of Decandolle's juniper tree, might be urged
in favour of DuhameFs theory of the formation of wood, and
against those of Decandolle and Du Petit Thouars and remarked
   ;

    it

                                     if
                                                                               ;

                                                                    it
that at all events clearly proved that the bark can form good
wood, independently of the aid of the alburnum. He further ad

duced the fact, that the nodules of wood that are found on the trunk
of the beech have always a layer of liber interposed between them

and the alburnum and expressed his opinion that this afforded an

additional proof, that the bark has, in general, not the sole, at least

the predominant influence in the formation of wood. In this speci

men, the annual layer formed after the occurrence, whatever was,

that prevented its adhesion to that of the preceding year, was as
76 BRITISH ASSOCIATION. 1835.

thick and sound as any of those that were near         by               though           must
apparently have been formed wholly by the liber.
                                                                of
                                                                    it,
                                                                                 it
NoWticeilliama YeHwafmouinltdonin,  a Bog in           Queen's County.  By Charles
       of                           Honorary
                                                       Secretary  the   Horticultural
           a
                                                       Mr. Mack ay.)
                           (
Society of Ireland.               Communicated

In this tree Mr. Hamilton was able to count annual rings- or layers
indicating a growth of 545 years. Yet so compact was the wood, or
so close the layers, that the diameter of the trunk did not exceed a
foot and half, or its circumference three feet and a half. The
growth had been very slow during the last three centuries, for near
the exterior there were about 100 rings within the space of one

inch.
Many years ago Mr. Mackay measured
                                                       a          yew tree, growing on

the island of Innisfallen on the Lower Lake of Killarney, of nearly
double the dimensions of the one described by Mr. Hamilton, or be

tween six and seven feet in circumference.

          Notice oftlte Yew at Mucruss. By Dr. Litton.

   Dr. Litton had tried the age of the celebrated yew tree at Mu
cruss by Decandolle's test, and found that the result nearly agreed
with the tradition. He exhibited a specimen of an oak tree bearing
the impress of letters on the inner concave surface.

Mr. Saunderson noticed                   passage in an old Scotch history,
                  a
                                      a
which stated that the northern part of Ireland was so much infested
by yew trees that great emigration of Irish took place in conse
quence, who, with their families and cattle, went over to settle them
selves in Scotland, the yew trees every year destroying their cattle
in Ireland.

       On Bog Timber. By the Rev. Archdeacon Vignoles.

The bogs of Westmeath are numerous, covering                            considerable
                                                                        it a
extent of the county. They almost invariably present the same                         a

natural appearance, only some are much more thickly imbedded
with bog timber than others. In some of them there are three
layers of trees to be found and alternating with them as many
             ;
                                                    ;

                                              2
                                               it
layers of peat from three to five feet in depth. The trees in each

layer appear to have arrived at maturity, and could not have been
coexistent. The specimen of bark exhibited was taken from tree
                                                                                          a
56 feet long; squaring from feet to 18 inches:                          lay upon
heathy bed consequently where fell the surface was                      heath.           It

was charred from  top  to bottom. With very few exceptions,                     all the
timber found in   the  neighbourhood bears the marks of fire.
                                                                                   The

roots are rarely found attached to the tree, but likewise bear evident
traces of having been burnt. They are of enormous size.
                 TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                                     77

   Dr. Marttn Barry communicated the result of some observations

om the colour of the sky, as seen from the summit of Mont Blanc ;
and expressed his conviction, that, while the depth of this colour

appeared very much increased, as might be expected, from his ele
vated position, its peculiar tinge of black was in a great measure
due to the contemporaneous reception by the eye of rays from the
snow. He stated that the same effect has been observed by Boussin-
gault in his attempted ascent of Chimborazo and other mountains.

Cursory Remarks upon some matters contained in a Letter                   addressed
   bSychMierd.e,WMilliJa)m.  Hamilton to Mr. Packenham. By
                             (Translated by Mr. Hamilton.)               William

  I1. The Oxalis tuberosa is a plant of Chili, not of Mexico; at

least have never heard of any plant of this genus with esculent
roots being cultivated in the Mexican republic. The country
abounds in wild species of Oxalis (the XoxocayaUin of Hernandez),
some of which are applied to culinary purposes in the same manner
as the Sorrels (Rumex) of Europe.
   2. The Solanum tuberosum without doubt, native of this soil,
                             I
                                                 is,
                                                           it

                                                                              a

                                                                       I
as has been already published in the beginning of 1829.                            have

collected several varieties, which may, perhaps, prove to be distinct
species. Moreover, have collected among them one species (So
laakninumtooxtyhcearpSu.mtu, beSrcohsiuemde, )    equally tuberous, and  in every  respect
                                                from which differs in    bearing   pointed
fruit. Notwithstanding which, the Papa, according to my researches,
has no Aztec name, being known to the Aztecs by the name of
Papa. Hernandez speaks of the Peruvian Papa; which proves how
little he was aware of its being plant of this country.
   3. According to my observations, the Cevadillais
                                       a                                 new plant
                                                                         a is
( Veratrum officinale, Schiede). Hernandez has described and                 a
gured very indifferently under the name of Hzcuinpatli, or Dog-
                                                                                              is fi
killer. It a powerful anthelmintic, diuretic, antiarthritic, and an-
         it    am not aware of its having been employed in the cure
tipsoric.
           I is

of hydrophobia. In the course of the last ten years new species
of Veratrum V. Orfilia, Sabadilla,) has been published by Des-
           (
courtilz, which he conjectures to be the plant which yields the ce
vadilla of the shops of Europe. In my opinion, this last plant
doubtful, and at least distinct from the Cevadilla of this capital
   I
                     is
and of the shops of Berlin.
   4. am not acquainted with the" plant called Amok, of the pro
vince of Sonora. A root exposed for sale in the market-place of
Mexico, under the name of Amok, which the Agave polyan-
                                                I is

                                                      ;

                                                        it

                                                        I

                                                                      it is
                                                                                is
                                                                                   a
thoides of Schiede, or at least one nearly related to it. It com
monly used for washing linen, in place of soap, as abounds in an
Ifextractive and saponaceous principle.
                                                mistake not,
   5. do not know the Cestrum Mutisii.
   I

production of South America. In some parts of Mexico they em

ploy in its place the sap of the Jttsticia tinctoria but cannot say
78 BRITISH ASSOCIATION. -- 1835.

whether or not its colour is as durable as that of the Cestrum, hav
ing written a number of letters with it to Europe, which are conse
quently not in my possession.
    6. Should the HuelosoehU,             mentioned         Mr. Hamilton   in his
letter, be the Yoloxochitl of             Hernandez,  bIy                 it to be
                                                           can pronounce
the Tctfauma Mexicana of Jussieu. Its reputed medicinal proper
ties are most probably exaggerated ; and both the flowers and the
seed are employed in this country in the cure of various nervous af
fections, and especially epilepsy. Yoloxochitl is an Aztec term im
Iplying the Flower of the Heart {Fhr del Corazon).

       shall conclude these remarks by observing, that several of the
matters indicated, together with a multitude of others relating to the
                      "ofLiMnneaxeiac.o,                        in a German bo
vegetable kingdom                         have been discussed   Botanik in ihrem
tanical periodical :
                                          Ein Journal fiir die
ganzen Umfange. Herausgegeben von D. F. L. v. Schlechtendal.
Berlin, Jahrgang 1829, et seqq."
                                                                k

Mexico, 28th December, 1834.

   Mr. Hamilton stated that he has lately received a pericarp and
two nuts of the celebrated Pah de Vaca, from the vicinity of the

farm of Barbula, spoken of by Humboldt; but, unfortunately, they
did not reach him in a state fit for vegetation, and were apparently
too old when gathered. He has written for a further supply of
fresher fruit, and specimens of various ages, together with the flowers,
which have never yet been botanically examined.

   Below is a rude outline of the pericarp and one of the nuts, of

their natural dimensions.

    Pericarpii diameter equatorialis polL 2 ; diam. polaris 1 % poll.
   He has also been favoured by Sir R. Ker Porter with a few seeds of

the wax-tree of Guyana, and a candle made from its wax. A plant

raised from one of these seeds is now growing in Pontey's nursery at
Dublin, but has not yet assumed an arborescent character. What this
tree is cannot yet be ascertained ; it bears at present little resem
blance to the genus Amyris, to which it might otherwise have been
suspected to belong.
        TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                                79

On the Mathematical RelaBtiyonDs r.ofAlthlme Faonrm. s of the Cells of Plants.

   Having demonstrated the reciprocity of the five solid forms, viz.
the sides and angles of the tetrahedron, the cube and the octahe
dron, the dodecahedron and icosahedron, the author endeavoured
to reduce to corresponding systems the forms of the cells of plants.

The dodecahedron and icosahedron, considered as respectively
forming the cellular tissue, appear, from the natural consequences,
well to agree with, and so far to explain, sundry exterior appear
ances in groups of plants also in structure reciprocal, the Exogene

and the Fndogene.
The triangular solid angles of four ordinate dodecahedra may meet
at a point, and leave exterior spaces ; the quinquangular solid angles
of four icosahedra cannot, without mutual encroachment, meet at a
Ifpoint, but must leave interior spaces.

       it be reasonable that the tubes or fibres of plants, whose growth
is always posterior to that of the cells, be arranged where most room
is afforded, or where least pressure is found likely to exclude them,
the tube, or fluid of the tube, by the approximation to the sphere, or
distension of the cell, would be driven from the middle of the side to
the edge, from the edge to 'the solid angle. Five vertical planes
may pass through all the solid angles of the dodecahedron ; three such

Ifplanes may pass through all the solid angles of the icosahedron.

       the central mass of approximate dodecahedra should be a little
augmented before the tubes be established, the ordinate dodecahe
dra might easily pass into the rhombic, which are capable of form
ing, without interstice,  a compact mass. For the
being twenty like) of     the ordinate dodecahedron  solid angle (there
                                                     is formed of three
plane angles, each of 108° ; the triangular solid angle of the rhombic
dodecahedron (there being eight like, besides six quadrangular) is
formed of three plane angles, each of 109° 28'; and this is the mea-
sure of each of the three plane angles which form the central solid
angle of the tetrahedron. The measure, also, of each of the four
itfplane angles which form the quadrangular solid angle of the rhom
bic is  32', the measure of each of the four plane angles which
form the central solid angle of the cube : hence, six like solid an

gles accurately meet at a point.
    Two vertical planes, perpendicular to each other, may pass through
all the quadrangular solid angles, and through four of the eight tri-
angulars of this rhombic, the four which remain being found in two

other planes of the like direction.        to refer -- to a central  cellular

   It perhaps will not appear too subtile

structure approximate to this, the Olives and others, binary in seeds,

ovaries, stamens, corolla, calyx, branches, and leaves ; adding, per
haps, the Wall-flowers and Celandines, somewhat reciprocal in the
relative position of the trophosperms, as referred to different views
of the horizontal central section of the same rhombic--
To the rhombic structure, with a shell of ordinately dodecahedral

cells, the Nightshades, the Periwinkles, and many others--
   80 BRITISH ASSOCIATION. 1835.

    To the dodecahedral throughout, Kalmias, Flax, Wood-sorrel,

   &c.--
       To the dodecahedral half-twisted, the branches departing from
   the stem, in Horse-tails ; varying divisions in the flowers of Jasmine
and Clematis, quaternary and quinary, as noticed in others by Linne,

and easily corroborated by many examples :

   To this altered structure in all the flowers, Centunculus, Ba-
diola, Tormentilla.                                             ,
   In general, to the icosahedral                                     how
                                   structure, --approximately,
ever, as we cannot understand icosahedra thus to mould each other,

--the Eridogene races of plants.
    Dr. Allman briefly refers, as to a subsidiary solid capable of
moulding, and of leaving within octahedral spaces, to the tetradeca-
hedron, reciprocal of the rhombic, as the icosahedron is of the ordi
nate dodecahedron. The four plane angles which form the solid

angle of this fourteen-sided solid, together measure 300°, as do the
five plane angles which form the solid angle of the icosahedron.
Four such quadrangular solid angles, with two quadrangular solid
angles, each plane angle of 60°, as of the octahedron, accurately

meet at a point.

    Notwithstanding, this solid seems admissible into the structure.
Exogene, of which the examples among plants are far more numer

ous than of the reciprocal Endogene.

    The author suggests its conformity to the square stems and four
exterior distinct packets of fibres in the Calycanthi ; viewed in
different positions, its indication of the ternary ovary, with the qua
ternary exterior, in Soap-trees, and in Trop&olum, varied still more?

    All the other above-named solids (except the ordinate dodecahe

dron and the icosahedron) may be derived from two tetrahedra.
   Those of equal mean diameter, placed reciprocally at a common

centre, have their envelope the cube, their nucleus the octohedron.
   These last, of like dimension and position, have their envelope

the rhombic dqdecahedron, their nucleus the tetradecahedron.
   Between the squares of the diameters of circumscribed and in
scribed spheres, the square of the mean diameteris
                                                                 in the tetrahe
                                              of
dron a geometrical, in the cube an arithmetical, in the octohedron
                                                            is,
a  harmonical mean. The continued proportions are, 9.3. 1.; 3.2. 1.;

6. 3. 2.

On the Formation   ofa Natural  Arrangement Plants               for  a Botanic
                     Garden.
                                By Mr. Niven.

    The principal object of this plan to divide the exotic from the
European plants by a serpentine walk, bringing the allied species in
juxtaposition by the numerous curvatures.

On  Phamogamous      Plants and Fems indigenous to  Ireland which
    are not found                                   Mackay.
                   in England or Scotland. By Mr.

   Mr. Mackay having been requested to present general report on
                                      a
         TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                                       81

this and other branches of the botany of Ireland at the next meeting
of the Association, this communication is omitted, as well as other
notices of the same nature by Mr. Babington, Mr. Curtis, and Pro
fessor Graham.

    Various other notices connected with the subjects of the papers
were received from Dr. Coulter, Professor Graham, Mr. Curtis,

Colonel Sykes, Mr. Fox, Mr. Waterhouse, Mr. J. B. Yates, Dr.

Traill, Mr. Haliday, and Mr. Marshall.

                        MEDICAL SCIENCE.

On  the  Peculiarities  oHfotuhestConirc, uMla.tDin.g,   Organs in Diving    Animals.
                                                        M.R.I*A., fyc. fyc.
             By John

    The circulation of the fluids in living animals, though mainly car
ried on by the influence of the vital powers, is nevertheless to a cer
tain extent amenable to the general laws of hydraulics. Gravity,
motion of the particles of the solids upon each other, the respiratory
function, pressure on the surface of the body, all, under various
modifications, promote or retard the movement of the fluids along
their vessels. But of all the collateral circumstances exerting an
influence of this nature, the action of the chest and lungs appears, in
warm-blooded animals, to be one of the most important. Suspen
sion of respiration puts a stop to the circulation of the blood through
the lungs ; this fluid under such circumstances stagnates in the ves
sels leading to these organs, and cannot pass forwards until air be

freely readmitted : death in a few moments is the inevitable conse
quence of such interruption. Animals living in atmospheric air
cannot exist under a state of suspended respiration so long as those
whose natural habitation is the water. The most expert diver has
never been known to remain submersed for more than two minutes

at a time, whilst it is well known that the whale can remain under
water for upwards of twenty. Now, the arrangement of the respira
tory and circulating organs in man and cetaceous animals, and the
influence of these two systems on each other, being the same, though
their powers of suspending respiration with impunity are very dissimi

lar, we naturally inquire, on what does this latter difference depend ?

   Independently of the suspension to respiration which occurs in
these animals while under water, there is another cause operating,
when at great depths in the ocean, to the prejudice of their circu

lating fluids, such as is never experienced by terrestrial animals,
namely, pressure on the surface of their bodies by the water, increas

ing with the depth from the surface. A boat, as observed by Scoresby,
when dragged to the bottom of the sea by a whale into which a har

poon was struck, became in a few minutes as completely soaked in
every pore as if it            atht ethseurbfaoctteo,mbyofththeewsheaalesinrceetutrhneingFlo"odto:
                     had lain
after being raised   again to
blow", it could with difficulty be got into the ship on account of
its great weight ; and 'a fragment of when thrown into the sea,
                               it,
82 BRITISH ASSOCIATION. -- 1835.

sank to the bottom like a stone. And are we to suppose that a de
gree of pressure under water, sufficient to soak in an instant every
pore in the planks of a large boat, was not felt by the animal which
dragged it to such a depth ? There can be little doubt that the
application of this pressure would repel the fluids from the vessels
near the surface of the animal into those more removed from its in
fluence in the deeper recesses of its body ; that, in fact, an effect
would follow, the opposite of that which is produced in an animal
when placed under the exhausted receiver of an air-pump ; or such
as occurs in persons attaining so high an elevation in the atmosphere
as to be freed from some of its weight, in whom the blood is deter

mined to the surface, producing giddiness, bleeding from the nose,

ears, lungs, &c.
We may consider, therefore, that aquatic mammalia can exist with
impunity during periods of suspended respiration, and also under
degrees of pressure which would be destructive to the lives of ani
mals of the same class whose element is exclusively the atmosphere.
And this may be considered still more remarkable, when it is recol
lected that during those periods of breathlessness and universal pres
sure, the voluntary and rapid movements which these animals perform
when in pursuit of their prey, tend to urge towards the lungs, where
the principal obstruction exists, all the fluids contained in the veins
among the muscular structures of the body.
The object of Dr. Houston's communication is to point out the
provision on which these peculiar diving faculties of such animals
depend ; a provision beautifully harmonizing with all our physiolo
gical notions,   and admirably adapted to the end  in view. It consists
of reservoirs    connected with the veins leading
                                                   to the lungs, where
the blood may find a temporary resting-place during the period at
which the asphyxiated condition of these organs refuses it transmis
sion through the vessels. Dr. Houston exhibited numerous prepara
tions and drawings demonstrating the presence of this singular
provision in the porpoise, seal otter,
&c. The veins principally concerned         great northern diver, gannet,
                                            in these dilatations are those
nearest the heart, viz. the venae cavae, the venae cavae hepaticae, the
ljstuihivdgeeeursla;a,bradsa,nondmdthepenion.svteethriInienosrstoahpmfeaterhsteeaaolsnfpitmithnhaeeel,veantnnheadecekret,hheaoipssapeotlinecianxetuhtsehfeoobrfmpavcoeksla,itnersgraienoodrfbaraseglugoscinohignnssittzhhoeee,f
that, when they are filled with injection, the parts beneath cease to
be visible ; the vessels are as thick as the finger, and coiled, and
heaped up on one another to an almost incredible amount. The
contrast between the condition      of the
northern diver and that in the    gannet,   venous system      in   the great
is important in establishing the  uses of   as exhibited by    Dr.  Houston,
                                            these reservoirs.
   The   diver   and gannet are both
ably in  their   modes of seizing the  seafaring birds, but differ remark
                                       fish on which they feed. The diver
swims   under    water after   its prey, and remains at such periods long
out of  sight ;  the gannet   pounces on it like an eagle, when discovered

by its quick-sighted eye near the surface of 'the water, and thence
TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.  83

carries it up to some dry spot, impaled on its long, sharp bill. As
might be expected in those two birds of such opposite habits, the provi
sion of reservoirs for stagnant venous blood is largely developed in the
one, but completely absent in the other. In the diver the vena? cava;
and venae cavae hepaticae are dilated to a size equal to that of the

same veins in the adult human body, and there is, moreover, a kind

of second auricle, designed to render the provision more complete ;

whilst in the gannet these veins, and all the others in the body, are

of the ordinary dimensions.
   Dr. Houston made allusion to the habits of pearl-divers, and offered

a conjecture that in those individuals, to whom practice has given
such a power of remaining long under water, some dilatation of the
vena? cava; and venss cavae hepaticaa may be gradually effectuated,
giving them their superiority over other men in suspending the breath,
and approximating them thereby somewhat to the condition of aqua
tic mammalia. The dilatations which are known to take place in these
vessels in some varieties of disease of the heart, he adduced in evi
dence of the possibility of such an occurrence.

AntinhAocltochgoeiucnaOtlmCoenhftaaunmgVeasor.ifetaynBoyAfxJHiosyhdDnaeteiHdro;(uCstyctsiotthince,OrcMbuss.eDrv.ta,etniMoun.iscRo.lIlo.isAn).,itfsofyuPcna. d

   This hydatid, varying in size from an almond to an orange, gene
rally single, sometimes in connexion with another, lies in a smooth
membranous cyst between the layers of the omentum. Its head and
body are in the living state inverted into the cavity of the caudal
vesicle; but by immersion in tepid water they become visible,
and are always found protruded and naked in hydatids which
have undergone death before the decease of the parent animal.
Dr. Houston considers that the inversion of the head is the natural
condition, and that its eversion is the result of some irritation
or of death. He also differs from most other helminthologists, in
being of opinion that the lateral depressions on the head, termed
mouths, and visible only to the microscope, are covered over with
a- thin pellicle, and incompetent, therefore, to the office assigned to
them, viz. that of being agents for the imbibition of nutriments, a?
he found that fluids squeezed from the vesicle in the direction of the
head, protruded and rendered convex the membranes of these aper
tures before .making its escape through them. Dr. Houston agrees
in opinion with those who consider that the function of imbibition is
carried on by the whole surface of the little animal. From the ex
amination of the specimens of hydatids which existed in great number
and variety in this case, the author has been enabled to describe and
delineate the different stages of the process of degeneration, to which
he considers all such animals are by their nature subjected ; and has
arrived at conclusions as to the seat of these degenerations different
from those advanced by other authors. He considers, That the term
allotted for the existence of each individual hydatid having expired,

                                                              G2
   84 BRITISH ASSOCIATION. -- 1835.

   the little  tahneimcaylstdiwesh,icahndcoinntatihneeddeiat d;--staTtheactotmhees   to act as    a foreign
   body on                                                                          cyst, thus    irritated,
   falls into a state of inflammation, the effects of which are traceable
   through a variety of stages, to the almost total disappearance of both
   cyst and hydatid. The cyst first becomes thickened ; lymph is
   thrown out on its internal surface, giving it a roughened granular
   appearance. The hydatid becomes opake, and its fluid contents
   muddy. An adhesion, probably of a glutinous or mechanical nature,
   is established between the lymph and the exterior surface of the hy
   datid. The fluid of the hydatid is
   bag squeezed up in the centre of the   then absorbed, and its                                  empty
                                                                                                  period
                                         solidified tumour. At a

   somewhat later all traces of the hydatid disappear, and the remaining
   mass consists of nothing but the altered cyst, filled with lymph and
   some curdy matter. The tumour diminishes in bulk, it becomes of
   a cheesy consistence, and finally is converted into a small solid

   nucleus of earthy matter, devoid, as it would appear, of any irritating

   properties.

      Dr. Houston differs from other writers in referring the whole of

   the morbid changes to the cyst, and not to the contained hydatid,                a
                                                                                             is,
   which he says is absorbed in the progress of the phenomena conse
   quent upon its death. He does not concur with those who are of
   opinion that malignant and tubercular diseases are of the nature of
   parasitical animals. No facts have hitherto been advanced sufficient
   to establish the position that any such diseases are, either at their
   commencement or at any subsequent period of their progress, of
   such a character. No animal has ever been seen of any definite
   shape in connexion with them ; and where the powers of the mi
   croscope can be brought with such effect in aid of investigations of
   this nature, why, it may be asked, if such pestiferous animals exist,
   have they not ere this been demonstrated ? The fact that all the
   circumstances connected with the growth and decay of such para
   sites as our senses can take cognisance of tend to conclusion of an
   opposite nature, viz. that these animals have their periods of ex

   istence as living beings, and having passed from this state, instead
   of polluting the whole frame, or running into extensive diseases, dis
   appear, and leave little or no injurious effects behind them, unless
   what may have arisen from their mechanical interference with the
   functions of some vital organ.

       The author exhibited numerous preparations and drawings illus
   trative of the facts advanced in the paper.

   On the EntoHzouamawnhicShubajreecto. ccaBsiyonParlolyfesfosuonr dHianrrthise oMnu.scles        a         the

                                                                                                        of
      The Professor exhibited preparations and drawings of speckled
   appearance not unfrequently met with in different parts of the mus
   cular system, and detailed the particulars of several cases in which.

      had existed he expressed his full concurrence with the opinions
   advanced by Mr. Owen, in the Transactions of the Zoological Society
   it

                                 :

X
                TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                             85

of London, as to the animal or vital character of the bodies to which
the appearance is owing. He next remarked some interesting
coincidences in the cases he had examined : thus, in one instance,

where the muscles were very generally affected, he found a large
cyst in the liver which contained several hydatids. These were

exhibited to the meeting. In all the other cases there were marks
of scrofulous disease having existed, either recently or at some
remote period : thus, in three cases the lungs were a mass of tu
bercular matter, and in another there was caries of the lumbar

vertebrae and scrofulous suppuration in the adjacent structures.
The Professor further stated, that in all the cases he had examined,

this appearance was almost confined to the voluntary muscles : he
had never met with it in the heart or intestinal tunics, but had found
it about the circumference only of the diaphragm, and in the other
mixed muscles to a much less degree than in the voluntary : these
bodies he stated to be more numerous on the cutaneous than on the
deep surfaces of muscles, and to be deposited in the interfascicular
cellular tissue, rather than in the fasciculi themselves.

On  the  Bones  which are  foBuyndPrinofethsesoHreHaratsrroisfocne.rtain  Ruminant
                Animals.

   The author first compared the circulating organs in fish, reptiles,
birds, and mammalia. He next adverted to the opinions of Mor-
gagni, Haller, Daubenton, Meckel, and Carus as to the singular
osseous appendages which the hearts of some of the Ruminants pos
sess, as also of some other animals allied to them. He exhibited
several specimens of these bones, some dried, some in their recent
state, and others in situ, in different animals. The heart of the ox

presents them in greatest perfection ; here there are always at least
two, and sometimes several smaller osseous and cartilaginous grains:
the two principal bones are, one very large, placed posteriorly in
the septum auricularum ; the other, smaller, is situated in front. The

large one is of the figure of the human malar bone; its upper concave
border forms the floor to the posterior aortic sinus ; its inferior be
velled edge gives attachment to the large portion of the mitral valve;
to the body of the bone the fleshy and tendinous fibres of the auricles
are attached. The small or anterior bone is triangular ; its concave

base floors the anterior aortic sinus. These bones are always to be
found in both sexes, and in the young as well as in the old. Speci
mens were presented from animals only a few weeks old, in which
osseous nuclei were distinct in the cartilaginous basis. The author
next adverted to 'the peculiar fleshy character of the left ventricle in

the ox, a transverse section exhibiting the appearance of a puncture
or stab, rather than of a distinct chamber ; this formed a curious
contrast to the heart of the horse. From these and many other ob
servations, Mr. Harrison inferred that these bones are supports, not
 only to this mass of muscle, but also to the root of the aorta which
 is connected to them, and which is thus maintained in a permanently
   86 BRITISH ASSOCIATION. 1835.

   open state ; while, again, there being two bones connected by liga
   ment, the elasticity of the vessel is not impaired.
                                                                                   These bones,

   moreover, serve to support the septun\ of the auricles, and to prevent
   their perfect closure or collapse, and they also floor and support two
   of the aortic sinuses with their semilunar valves. The Professor

   next spoke of the peculiar, hard, .marble-like fat which is deposited
   in masses about the roots of the great arteries, and showed that these
   cover the three sinuses of the pulmonary artery, and that sinus of the
   aorta which is deprived of osseous support. These arterial sinuses
   are lodged in excavations in the fatty deposits alluded to, and no

   ordinary force can overcome the resistance which they offer to over

   distension ; and thus the sinuses are enabled to support the returning
   columns of blood, which are impelled by the elasticity or resiliency
   of the arteries, which in such animals are peculiarly strong and elastic.
   The author next explained the structure and true use of the corpora
   Arantii ; contrasted the structure of the pulmonary artery and its
   valves with the corresponding parts of the aorta; and concluded

   with some observations on the calcareous and osseous deposits which

   are met with in the human subject, in whom they appear as acci
   dental or morbid changes in those very situations where in some
   animals the osseous structure is essential.

   On the Structure of the Mammary Glands in the Cetacea; with Ob
       servations on the Mechanism        oinf             the Mouth  anBdySoAf.t  Palate,  as ap
       plied by the young Animal                           Sucking.                Jacob,
                                                                                            M.D.,

       Professor of Anatomy, Royal College of Surgeons, Ireland.

   in  The  wauotrhkore, nctoitmlemd en"tiFnrgagmonenthse  opinions of M.Geoffroy St. Hilaire
       his                                                 sur la Structure et les Usages des

   Glandes mammaires des Cetaces," and referring to the descriptions

   of Hunter and plates of Muller, entered into the question of the
   mechanism of the mammary glands in Cetacea, and the operation of
   the mouth of the young of that tribe.
       M.  St. Hilaire is stated
   "       process of nutrition   by the   author to entertain the opinion that
      the                         of the
                                          young of the Cetacea by the milk of
   the mother, is accomplished in a manner and under circumstances
   different from those of other mammalia." To support this proposi
   tion, M. St. Hilaire assumes that the mammary glands in these ani
   mals are peculiarly organized and circumstanced ; first, in being
   placed between the abdominal and subcutaneous muscles, by which
   they are subjected to mechanical pressure adequate to the expulsion

   of their contents ; and secondly, in containing a peculiar reservoir,
   formed by an enlargement of the excretory ducts* and running the
   whole length of the organ.

       These statements are admitted by Dr. Jacob ; but he remarks,
   that there is no proof of any special pressure on the mammary gland

   arising from its position with reference to the muscles ; and that the

   only peculiarity in the excretory ducts is the existence of the mam
   mary reservoir, in the form of a single cavity, -- a circumstance which

v
TRANSACTIONS OP THE SECTIONS.                                                                                                                   87

the author considers to be dependent on the Hat, elongated form of
the mammary gland. He advances arguments to show the proba
bility of there being, in fact, a special structure at the orifice of the
nipple to prevent loss of milk by any other external pressure than
that upon the teat or nipple itself.

   Both M. St Hilaire and Mr. Hunter have assumed that, in con
sequence of the opposite condition of the nostrils of the mother and
young during the act of suction, this process can only be performed
by the young between two respirations. The act of sucking, Mr. Hun
ter states, must also be different in the Cetacea from that of land
animals, " the lungs having, in the former, no connexion with the
mouth." On these points the author differs from the eminent autho
rities quoted, and enters into an examination of the action of the soft
palate in the functions of breathing and deglutition ; from which he
deduces the conclusion, that the mouth is a separate and distinct

cavity, capable of increasing or diminishing its capacity, and, conse
qtihnueensoutelcsyok,pinhogaf,gfuosa.rnmdinfIrgtommanuswtimhnipcoehtr,febwcethefvonarcgauocutctmeun,miuntlthaotaetwd,hthicieth  t/te milk rushes

                                                                                                                                is transferred  to
                                                                                                                                construction
                                                                                                                                                of

the soft palate in the Cetacea is different from that in other animals:
it is in them in the shape of a muscular partition, with a circular
aperture surrounded by a sphincter ; while the top of the larynx is
elongated so much upwards that it enters this aperture, and, being
grasped by the sphincter, communicates with the blow-hole or nos
tril, leaving the mouth and fauces unaffected by the process of re
spiration, and still better adapted than in other animals to carry on
the operation of sucking.

On the Mechanism of Bruit de Soufflet By Dr. Corrigan.

The first part of the paper consisted of an analysis of the various
theories which had been proposed to account for this sound and its
varieties, bruit de rape, &c. Laennec supposed it to be produced by
spasmodic action, but his opinion has been generally abandoned.

By some the sound has   boerenaratettrriiebsu,t--edbutot      increased    pressure made by
narrowing of the heart                                        it is heard  in permanent pa

tency of the aorta, in the vessels of the pregnant uterus, in aneuris-
tmhaelrediilsatnaotionnarroofwainrtgeri;e--s biny                        in all which instances
                                                   varicose   tumours,   velocity in the motion
                                                   others to  increased
of the blood ; but it is not heard in the circulation of the foetus or
infant, while it is audible in the slower circulation of the mother ;

nor in the quickened pulse of hectic or inflammatory fever, while it
is audible with a pulse of 70. By others it is attributed to rough
nesses in the interior of arteries, or irregularities, over which the
blood, in passing, produces the sound ; but it is not heard in the
healthy heart, the internal surface of which is exceedingly iiyegular;
nor is it necessarily present in aneurisms, rough and irregular on
their inner surface, from shape, or from deposition of fibrine ; the

sound, on the contrary, being frequently heard when there is no de
88 BRITISH ASSOCIATION. 1835.

viation from the natural state of the interior surfaces of the heart

or arteries.
The second part of the paper developed Dr. Corrigan's views.
His theory
              that the sound depends on the simultaneous presence
       it
            is

                is,
                                     ;
of these two conditions, viz. 1st, a current-like motion of the blood
(instead of its natural equable movement), tending to produce cor
responding vibrations on the sides of the cavities or arteries through
which         moving and, 2ndly, a state of the arteries or cavities

themselves by which, instead ot being kept in state of tense ap
                                                                       a
                                                                                             ;
proximation on their contained inelastic blood (which would neces
sarily prevent any vibration of their sides), they become free to vi
tbtohwrnoaostteehcevtooinsbedrtniahtsteieoionpnoslsaf yhaceroaaefurisnptehgr,ee, soe"cnnubtrtrrhueieninttsstdehenewsseipotauhorfififnelettteoo?suncohItf,thtewh"ireafrsevpmseahnrisoitesrwitecenmlsee,thnataa,tn"ndtdhaetnhsbedey
currents of blood striking against them in cases of narrowed auri-
culo-ventricular openings in the enlarged and tortuous arteries of
                                        ;

the placental portion of the uterus permitted by their very free ana
stomosis with veins and sinuses, and other causes, to become par
tially flaccid in the intervals of the heart's contractions, and the ir

regular currents necessarily assumed by the blood in rushing along

                                                                            ;

                                                                                            si
these comparatively flaccid tubes at their next diastole and that
milar conditions exist in the analogous state of the vessels in aneu-

rismal dilatations of tortuous arteries. The presence of the two
conditions was also applied to explain the mechanism of the sound
in permanent patency of the mouth of the aorta, in the large arteries
of animals dying of haemorrhage, and in various other instances. In
conclusion, two experiments were detailed, in which, in one instance,
a small bladder, and in the other portion of the gut of an animal,
was interposed between two cocks, the upper or nearer being theit)
cock of a water-cistern, and the lower or further constituting the
                                   of the bladder or a                 water then allowed to
discharging orifice                the cistern. The     gsuotu,ndand"  bruit de sotiffletj' and
flow through from

the sensation "fremissement," were perceptible in the intervening
bladder or gut, until (from the upper pipe pouring in fluid faster
than the lower discharged                  the bladder or gut became tense, and
then both sensations ceased, the passage of the fluid through, ne
vertheless, continuing all the time. The experiment with the blad
                                                                             absence of
"debr rwuiatsdeapspoluieffdlet"to   explain the   occasional   presence and  in an aneu
                                   in aneurisms,  the sound   being present

rism when, from any circumstance connected with its parietes can       it,

become at all flaccid in the intervals of the heart's contractions, --

not being heard  if                the parietes remain tensely applied to their con
tained fluid.
                      a
   Dr. Corrigan has in some experiments substituted a gum-elastic
tube for the portion of gut.

   Dr. Alison read notice of few experiments and observationsa
which he had made, with the assistance of different friends, on two
       TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS,                                                         89

distinct subjects : 1 . On the Condition and the vital Powers in Ar
teries leading to inflamed parts, (in continuation of those on the same
subject read to the Section  in  1834) ; and 2. On the immediate Cause

of Death in Asphyxia.
He connected them with one another by some preliminary obser
vations on the importance of establishing the truth, and, as far as
possible, determining the applications of the principle to which the
term spontaneity of movement in the fluids of living bodies has been
applied, i. e. of movements of the fluids in living bodies, which are
dependent on their living state, but independent of any contraction

of their living solids.
   In proof of the truth of this principle he stated that many facts
might be adduced ; and the immediate object of the statements now
made was to prove that without reference to this principle it is im
                          osfetes ssoefntpiahlenimompoerntaa,ncew, h--ichthehacvheanbgeeesn
possible to explain  two                                                                       care
fully observed, and  are                                                                     in the

motion of the blood which attend inflammation, and those which result

from the application of oxygen to the blood in respiration.
    On the first point, he detailed the result of two examinations (in

addition to those formerly reported) of the arteries of limbs of
horses killed on account of injury and inflammation of single joints,
in one case of three weeks', in the other of eight days' standing. The
power of contracting on a distending force, and expelling their con
tents, was tried in the arteries both of the inflamed and the sound
limbs, by the same contrivance as was used by Porseuille to compare
the contractile power of living and dead arteries ; i. e. by using bent
tubes and stopcocks in such a way as to distend a given portion of
artery (first of the one limb and then of the other,) by water pressed
into it by a firm weight of mercury, and then allowing the artery to
expel the distending water, and getting a measure of the force which
it exerts in doing so, by the rise of the level of water in a tube com
municating with the artery. The result was in both cases in ac
cordance with the observations formerly made, that the artery of the
inflamed limb exerted less power of contracting on, and expelling its
contents, than that of the sound limb. The difference was as 10 to

16 in one case, and as 125 to 175 in the other, which was the more

satisfactory of the two, as the experiment was made more imme

diately after death.

  It appeared also, on careful comparative examination, that the
contraction of the emptied
is the measure adopted by    arteries at the moment    of  death (which
                             Parry of the vital power  of  arteries) was

less in the diseased than in the sound limbs ; the difference between

the contracted state immediately after death, and the subsequently
                     state of the
dilated and dead     the diseased  artery  (28 hours after death), being
                                   limb,   and -j-rd in that of the sound
£th in the case of
limb.
It appears, therefore, that in all arteries of such size as to admit
of measurement, and which supply inflamed parts, the only vital
powers of contraction, which experiments authorize our ascribing to
the coats of these vessels, is diminished during inflammation ; and it
90 BRITIBH ASSOCIATION. -- 1835

may be safely added, that no othefe change but this diminution or
relaxation of contractile power has ever been perceived, either in
them, or in the smaller vessels which come under the observation of
the microscope, at least during the greater part, and in the highest
intensity, of inflammation.

   But if it be inferred from these facts that inflammation consists
merely in relaxation of vessels, giving an increased effect to the im
pulse of blood from the heart to the part affected, several facts may

be stated to show that the explanation thus afforded is quite inade
quate. The change which takes place on the movement of the blood
                                         diminution of velocity or absolute
it

                       a
                                                   is,

                                            it
                                                     is

                                                                                                                         ;
flowing to an inflamed part
stagnation in the vessels most affected, combined with increased ve
locity and. increased transmission in all the neighbouring vessels
and seems impossible to ascribe both these opposite effects to the
same cause, viz. simple relaxation or loss of power in the vessels
concerned. Neither can the characteristic effusions consequent on

inflammation, and by which alone         uniformly distinguishable from

simple congestion or serous effusion,    o(afndthepafribtirciunlatrhlayt  the increased
quantity and increased aggregation                                         exudes from

inflamed vessels,) be explained by this change of the action of the
vessels. And further, the local causes which excite inflammation are
not only such as in other instances produce an increase, instead of a
diminution, of vital power, but they are such as have been ascertained
to produce, when they are made to act on minute portions of indivi
dual vessels only, contraction instead of relaxation as has appeared
                                                         is is
                                                                ;

                                                                          is
                                                                                                ;
in the experiments of Verschuir, Thomson, IIastii)gs,\Vednieyer, and

Others.
The proper inference, therefore, appears to be, that the idea of an
increased action vessels in an inflamed part indeed a delusion
         is             really increased action within the vessels of the
but that there   is

                  a of
part, ue. an increased exertion of powers, by which the motion of
the blood affected, but the action of which              independent of the
contractions of the living solids, and the effect of which to cause
distention and relaxation of the vessels, within which they act with

unusual energy.

2. The immediate object of the experiments on death by asphyxia
                                       the acceleration of the  flowing blood
was to   ascertain   --whwehthicehr  is   undoubtedly produced  by respiration,
through  the lungs,
and the failure of which appears, from the experiments of Williams
of Liverpool, and of Kay of Manchester, to be the immediate cause
of death by asphyxia, can be ascribed, as Haller and some very re
cent authors have supposed, to the merely mechanical influence of
the alternate expansion and contraction of the lungs by the respi

ratory movements.
That this not the fact might be concluded from the fatal as
         is
                                      ;

                                                     it
phyxia produced by breathing azote or other gases, not poisonous,
but not containing oxygen in which case had been observed by
Broughton and others,' that the stagnation of blood in the lungs, and
the distention of the right side of the heart, take place equally as
              TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                                     91

when the respiratory movements are suspended. But to this obser
vation it might be objected, that the animals on which experiment had
been made had been allowed to remain in the azote until they became
insensible, and their respiration of course ceased, and had not been
examined until some minutes after their apparent death, and it might
be said, that the right side of the heart had become congested only
after the acts of respiration had ceased, and in consequence of their

cessation. .

In order to avoid this source of fallacy several rabbits were con
fined in azote, only until their breathing became laboured, the re
spirations generally less frequent, but much longer and fuller

than natural. They were then taken out and instantly struck on

the head with such force as to crush the brain and cerebellum, and

arrest the circulation as instantaneously as possible. This was always
attended with violent and general convulsion, but with no attempt

at respiration, sensation being apparently instantaneously suppressed.
When the body was opened immediately after the convulsion had
subsided, the right side of the heart was always found distended
with blood, and palpitating feebly ; the left side at rest and compa
ratively empty : the quantity of blood obtained by puncturing and

pressing the right side and pulmonary artery was from 5 to 10 times
as much as could be obtained from the left side and aorta. When

a rabbit previously breathing naturally was killed in the same man
ner, the quantity of blood on the right side of the heart (apparently

accumulating there during the convulsions) was found to be greater
than on the left ; but the difference was decidedly less than when
it had been breathing azote ; and in one of these comparative trials
the blood in the left side was found to be sufficient to keep up a
feeble palpitation in that side, whereas in the animals that had

breathed azote the left side was always found quite at rest.

   It appears from these experiments that when oxygen is not ad

mitted into the lungs in inspiration, even although the respiratory
movements continued further and more forcible than usual up to

the moment of death, the blood stagnates on the right side of the
heart ; and that the application of oxygen to the blood at the lungs
is a cause of acceleration of its movement through the lungs, inde
pendently of any influence of the mechanical movements of respi

ration.

  If we further inquire, in what manner oxygen can give this sti
mulus to the flowing blood through the lungs, it appears certain
that it cannot be by stimulating the small capillaries of the lungs
                        which    it is directly
(the   only vessels to  granted    that there                  applied) to contraction, be
cause                                                          are vessels capable of con
        even if it be

otrfacstitnimg uloantinigrritaantiyonar(twerhieicsh   is very  doubtful),  the  immediate effect
                                                     capable   of taking   on   such action has

always been observed to be a constriction permanent for some
length of time, and in consequence a retarded flow of the fluids
through them, as in the experiments of Wedmeyer.
   If, again, we suppose the effect of the oxygen on the minute ves
92 BRITISH ASSOCIATION. -- 1835.

sels in the lungs to be sedative or relaxing, and ascribe to a dimi
nished action of these vessels the apparently increased efficiency of
the right side of the heart when oxygen is applied, we suppose the
oxygen to produce the very opposite effect to that which has always
been observed when it or any other stimulus has taken effect on any
individual artery.
The only mode in which it appears possible to escape from these

difficulties is to suppose that the stimulus given by the oxygen to
the flowing blood through the lungs, is a stimulus to that movement
which is independent of any contraction t)f the solids containing
the blood. This conclusion is in perfect accordance with the ob

servations of Haller o'n the derivation of blood, perceptible under
the microscope, towards any part where an opening is made in a
vessel, and air admitted into contact with the blood, because he
gives satisfactory reasons for thinking that this derivation is not
owing to contraction of the vessels ; it is also in accordance with
observations on some of the lowest tribes of animals, and on vege
tables, where currents in fluids are             in connexion with              the
act of respiration, but no movement   observed   has been detected;             and
                                      of solids

even, as Dr. Alison thinks, with the observations of Purkinje and
others, on currents connected with the respiratory organs in animals
much higher in the scale, because although these last currents have
been ascribed by most authors to vibrations of ciliae, which are seen
to accompany them in various instances, it seems very doubtful
whether they can be adequately explained without supposing a
"Jeu a" attraction el repulsion" to be commenced in these instances,
as well as in the respiration of the lowest tribes.

Experimental Inquiry      into the different  oOffAfibcesosrpotfionL.acteBaky,  Lym
   phatics, and Veins     in the Function                                       P. D.
   Handyside, M.D.

The author's general position is thus stated: " The lacteals, lym
phatics, and veins are endowed each with a peculiar office in the
general functions of absorption ; for example, 1. The lacteals are
those vessels which absorb the aliment which is necessary for main
taining the nutrition and increase of the body, and exercise the
property of refusing entrance to all
tics absorb the elements of the body  other   matters; 2. The lympha
                                      upon    their becoming useless or
noxious, so as by their final discharge from the system to make room
for the deposition of new matter, and these vessels possess no ab
sorbing power over any substances foreign to the system; 3. The
veins not only return to the heart the blood after that fluid has ful
filled the object of its
of receiving into the     diffusion   over the system, but  enjoy the office
                           animal    system by absorption   \ax\ow foreign

matters which may be brought into contact with their orifices.
In support of these views the author presents a short review of
results obtained by various eminent anatomists and physiologists.
         TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                                                        93

LacTtheealsf.o--lloTwhineigr  is the order    of the subjects discussed                       :
                               distention     a;f--tereffaecftus llofmliegaalt,u--retsheoirn
                                                                                               condition as
observed in living animals                                                                    the thoracic
Lymttdveheupaagclhttses,atf--atobiouclfenesxds,ha,--oc--ritnsAenntsrohe.aesteopmmrlyobmioclafpanhlcaaoetfrifciogorifdnvetehdosefs,e--bllysy,ma--npeahxlaoabgpmsyreiinonoacrtfeiotlyonmoiftpsohlyafamtbilcsypsomhrappatthniicodsntlhaactinot
glyaminpheantitcrsancseervinetoasththeesycshtaenmn,e--l ntohrcooumgmhunwichaictihon
                                                                                     foreign matters
                                                                                        between lym

Vepinhsa.t--icsAannadlovgeyinbs eetwxceeepnt  through the  great lymphatic                    trunks.
                                              the anatomy  and disposition                    of the veins
of animals and the vessels corresponding to these in plants, favours
the"
      doctrine of venous absorption.          of affecting  the constitution                  ge
      When foreign matters capable
nerally, and of being diluted in its solids and fluids, are brought
into  contact with the serous and mucous surfaces of the
with  the cutis vera, and with the interstitial cellular tissue                                body,

                                                                                              of dif

ferent organs, the resulting phenomena exhibited by the blood
in the veins give evidence that these vessels are the sole agents
employed in this variety of absorption." These four points are
discussed by reference to a variety of experiments, to which the
author adds the following from his own researches, as bearing on
the question of absorption of foreign matters' by veins of the cel
lular tissue.

   Exp. 1. Having made a fistulous opening in the abdominal parietes
of a dog, he took advantage of the period when a complete granu
lating surface should be formed, to apply to it very freely the solu
tion of pruss. potass. On killing the animal three minutes after the

application, and applying the appropriate chemical test to the blood,

it was seen to exhibit traces of the prussiate.
   Exp. 2. He induced the formation of a granulating surface four

finches square in extent in the fleshy substance of the back of a

large cut, and then retained pledgets of lint moistened with 1 of the
usual solution of the prussiate of potash in contact with this surface
during the space of four hours. A fair indication of the presence
of the poison in the blood was seen, on submitting to the usual test

the blood from the carotid arteries, both in its fluid and coagulated
states, while no indication whatever of its presence was observed in

the lymph.

   These experiments now put forth as evidence in favour of the
doctrine of absorption by the veins of foreign matters, from the in
terstitial cellular tissue of the animal body, when taken along with
the previous experiments also adduced to prove the absorption of
         matters from the surface of
foreign  and serous superficies, would        the cutis    vera .and                          the different
 mucous                                       appear to    justify a
                                                                                              conclusion --

that the absorption of foreign matters occurring from the interstices
and surfaces of the body occurs solely through the channel of the

venous system.
94 BRITISH ASSOCIATION.-- 1835.

Observations on the  Effects of Cold on different Parts of the  Hu
   man Body, and     on a Mode of measuring Refrigeration.       Bij
Dr. Osborne.

     In this communication Dr. Osborne began by adducing some
  facts to show the importance of cold, viewed as a cause of disease.
  He stated, that of 57, the entire number of patients on the preced
  ing day (13th August, 1835,) in Sir Patrick Dun's Clinical Ho
  spital, 34 could distinctly refer to cold as the cause of their com
  plaints, contracted in the following manner: in 12 from damp
  clothes, 5 from damp feet, 3 from bathing, and 14 from cold air
  when heated. This proportion, however, would probably be very
  different in winter. The direct effect of cold on the air-passages of
  the lungs is almost restricted to inflammation at the rima of the

  glottis, and this is usually caused by suddenly rushing from heated

  to cold air. It may be proved that the respired air, being of nearly
  the same temperature as the blood, and not deriving its heat from
  the action of respiration in the lung (see Brodie's Experiments),

  must, in its passage downwards, be heated to considerably more
  than half the difference between the temperature of the blood and
  that of the air ; that, consequently, at its arrival in the air-vesicles

  of the lungs, it must have acquired such a temperature as amounts
  to a protection against the effects of cold. Dr. Osborne considers
  this as a provision of nature in a matter in which we are not able

  to guard ourselves.

     When, owing to an oppression of nervous energy, the healthy
 temperature of the surface is not maintained, then the air arrives at

 the air-vesicles without being heated ; hence, he conceives, may be
 explained the numerous instances of sudden death which occur in

 chronic bronchitis and low fevers when sudden depressions of the
 temperature of the atmosphere have taken place during the night.
 In those, cases the cold thus admitted to the lungs causes a torpor in
 their capillary circulation ; and after death it is found that the blood
 has stagnated in the lungs, and in the veins and right cavities of the
 heart.

     The common opinion that various inflammatory diseases are con
 tracted by sleeping in newly-built houses appears to be ill founded,
 except in as far as the clothes worn by the individual may contract
moisture. The air under the bedclothes being kept up by the heat
of the body to the temperature 80°, the only way in which the damp
air can prove injurious is by the lungs, which, as before 9tated, are,
in health, enabled to resist its effects. It appears that in a regiment
which was quartered in newly-built barracks no injury resulted from
the damp.

    On the stomach the effect of cold is perceived, not by a sensation
of cold in that organ, but hy thirst, in consequence of reaction, as
is experienced after taking ices. When the cold is long-continued
or overpowering, in consequence of feeble reaction, then gastritis is
produced from torpor of the capillaries. This last mode of expla
nation is derived from the phaenomena observed in the exterior of the
             TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                      95

body on the application of cold. When the application is transient and
the circulation vigorous, the contraction of the vessels and paleness
of the surface are only momentary, and are succeeded by reaction
evinced in increased heat and diffused blush of redness. When it is

long continued, then the pale and shrunk state of the surface is gra
dually succeeded by a purple or livid colour, attended with increase
of size, as may be proved by a ring on the finger, from the swollen
        of                 --Cwohmicpharisnhgowtheedsethfaatctisnwinitfhlamtheedexppaerrtismnenottsondely
state        the vessels.
tailed   by   Dr. Alison,

the small vessels but the large arterial trunks leading to the part are
dilated, and rendered incapable of contracting like other arteries,--
Dr. Osborne proposes the question, whether there is not sufficient

evidence to prove that cold produces inflammation by producing
          and dilatation of the vessels, either   of             itself or of
torpor                                           not  the part
some    connected or adjacent part, which, if         removed   by transient

reaction, is followed by the more permanent reaction of inflamma
tion, causing a number of new phenomena.
   With regard to the effect of cold on the skin, which is the most
important of all, it is evident that meteorology has contributed very
little to our knowledge of the influences of the atmosphere on health
or disease. It has appeared to the Author, that in order to connect this

science with utility, as far as mankind is concerned, one considera
tion has been omitted, which is, the cooling power of the atmosphere
estimated with reference to ourselves. The human body has a heat
of nearly 98°, and is placed in a medium always cooler than itself.
The degree of cooling influence exerted on it has never been made
the subject of measurement, and to the present time is estimated
solely by the feelings. In order to measure the cooling influences
of the air or other media, Dr. Osborne used a spirit thermometer,
without a frame, carefully graduated from the degree 90 to 80 in
clusive, that being nearly the temperature of the exterior of the body.
Having heated the bulb to 90°, he exposed it in different situations,
observing the time during which the spirit descended from 90° to 80°,
and adopting, as a measure of the refrigerating power, the rate of
cooling deduced. And by this contrivance is exhibited the result
of radiation, and of the conducting power of the atmosphere as
modified by its temperature, its density, its moisture, and its cur
rents; and that result, the most interesting of all to the invalid,

who, in respect to temperature, may be conceived as represented
by the instrument. As the variety in the shape of the bulb, the
bore of the tube, the thickness of the glass, or the density and
quantity of the fluid employed will cause variety in the time of the
descent, the result obtained with two thermometers must not be ex
pected exactly to correspond. In order to procure uniformity for
this purpose, it will be necessary to place a number of them, pre
viously graduated between 90° and 80° and heated to 90°, in air at
60° or 50°, and to select those which contract according to the time
fixed on as a standard. The thermometer so applied, Dr. Osborne
proposes to call a psychometer, or measurer of refrigeration.

                                                                                                           S
   96 BRITISH ASSOCIATION. -- 1835.

      Amongst the observations brought forward by him to illustrate
   its use are the following :

      To show the refrigerating effect of agitation or of a breeze, the
   temperature of the air remaining the same.

   In air, temp. 70° at rest, it cooled from 90° to 80° in 5m 20*.

                     in a slight breeze                             in 2TM 50*.
                     blown on with a bellows
                                                                    in 58*.

      These observations show the fallacy of determining climate by
   the thermometer. There are situations in which, owing to constant
   currents of air, a cold is produced of the utmost consequence to
   health, but not appreciable by the thermometer. Dr. Osborne ex
   pects that by means of this mode of observation much light may be
   thrown on the climates of the western coast of Africa, and of other

   unhealthy localities. The meteorological tables at present kept in
   those places fail in showing the effect of the sea and land breezes.

      The following shows the refrigerating power of water, above air
   of the same temperature, at rest, to be above 14. to 1.

   In air at rest, temperature ?D°, it cooled from 90° to 80° in 5m 40*.
   In water at rest, same temperature
                                                                    in 24".

     It is well known that in swimming it is not the fatigue so much

   as the refrigeration which fixes the limit. This appears from the
   following observation compared with the preceding.

   The instrument agitated in water, cooled from 90° to 80° in 15".

      In order to ascertain the refrigeration produced by damp clothes,
   Dr. Osborne covered the bulb of the instrument with cotton wool,
   and having placed it at rest in an apartment at 68+°, found it to cool
   from 90° to 80° in 10m 14s. Placing it in the same circumstances,
   but with the cotton wool slightly damped, it cooled down in 2m 57*.
   This proportion must be much increased when under the influence
   of the open air. The application of cotton wool to the skin, moist
   ened with water or an evaporating lotion, he has found the most
   eligible means of cooling the surface in disease, not only on account
   of the constancy with which the refrigeration is maintained, but from
   its being peculiarly agreeable to the feelings of the patient.

   On the Injhven.ce of the Artificial Rarefaction or Diminution of At
   mospheric         Pressure in some Diseases, and the             Soifr  its Con
                     or increased Elasticity in others.  EffBecyts           James
   dMenusrartaioyn.

       The paper was divided into two parts. The first detailed the ge
   neral principles of the rarefaction of air, and its powers as a reme
   dial agent on the human body. The second part related to the local
   agency of condensation of air in topical diseases.

       The propositions were submitted, not as remedial means of them
   selves alone, but as auxiliary to those already in use. It was shown,

s
                   TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                                 97

That the  o1r5dtinoanrsy;--attmhaotspbhyeprilcacipnrgessaupreerssounstaininaend   by the whole body
averages                                                                         air-tight bath, with
provision for breathing the ordinary atmosphere, half a ton or a ton
can be removed without danger :
   That the abstraction of this elastic compression permits the easier
expansion of the chest, elicits the blood and animal heat to the sur
face of the body, opens the pores of the skin, and restores to the

surface rashes or eruptions which had been suppressed.

   It was therefore submitted, that an agent capable of producing

such effects is entitled to consideration in treating certain conditions

of pectoral diseases ; in eliciting internal congestions or inflamma

tions from central organs to the surface ; in preventing certain fevers,

and other complaints arising from obstructions of the cutaneous

functions ; in translating gout and rheumatism from vital organs to
the limbs ; in restoring a due balance of the circulation, and attract

ing the blood into the superficial veins from the deep-seated arteries.

   A case of a patient was detailed, in which congestion of the brain
was diverted from the head by inclosing one of the lower extremi

ties in a rarefying bath, and abstracting about two pounds and a half
of pressure from each inch of the surface : the influx of the fluids
was so great, that in two hours the circumference of the limb was
increased nearly three inches, the vessels of the skin rendered red,

warm, and turgid, and the head relieved.
The case of a painter was also adduced, whose right arm had long
been paralysed and cold from the effects of lead paint. The .arm
was put for two hours into the rarefying case, and afterwards con
tinued hot and vigorous, so that the man was able to resume his
work.
          second.  --As  diseases  of an opposite nature require                 opposite
   Part
remedies, the principle of rarefaction is reversed in certain cases,
and condensation, or additional pressure, employed.
   This partof thepaperdetailed several cases illustrative of the powers
of this agent. Where there was too much vascularity of parts, then
local pressure, pumped under an air-tight covering, emptied the vessels,
propelling onwards the overflow of blood contained in the veins, and
preventing its undue influx by the arteries.
    The consequences were, to diminish inflammations, dissipate tu
mours and white swellings, facilitate the reduction of hernia and other
protrusions, and to diminish the influx of fluids into indurated

breasts or enlarged glands.
    The author adduced a very interesting case, the reduction of a
prolapsus ani by atmospheric pressure, without touching or bruising

the sensitive intestine.
   The powers of condensation of air were then alluded to, for the
treatment of fungous sores or ulcers, and for the suppression of

uterine hasmorrhages, as well as bleeding from wounds or lacera

tions.

                                   H
98 BBITISH ASSOCIATION. -- 1835.

          On the Differential Puke. By Dr. MTDonnell.

"  Dr. M'Donnell's paper     began with a description of what he terms
   the Differential Pulse,"  and with proofs of his claim to priority in

ascertaining it in 1784. The observations which succeed related to

the following subjects.
   The influence of disease and of particular remedies upon the

pulse, with a reference to the effect of posture on the number of
beats; the absence of this phenomenon in quadrupeds, owing to
their natural vessels being horizontal in both the lying and standing
posture ; certain cases of health and disease, in which the maximum
and minimum of this variation are found ; the methods to be pursued
for investigating the number of the pulse in wild and ferocious ani
mals as deducible from their respirations ; the proportion between the
stops, pulses, and respirations in man and quadrupeds in active ex
ercise ; observations made at a depth of 26 feet in a diving-bell,
which corroborate the views of Sir David Barry and Dr. Carson on

the moving powers in the circulation ; proofs that barometrical va
          2h. --aveOnnothinefluliemnictaetiounpsonotfhethepudlsoectroinr ebreoafthtihnegs."
riations                                                                                                Differential
    Part
Pulse"; of stationary or permanent pulses; observations made on
the pulses of children before and after their having respired ; of the
acceleration of the pulse after birth ; observations on quadrupeds
with respect to this; supposition that the foetus remains before

birth in the state of the cold-blooded animals ; of the final cause of
this peculiarity ; of the cause of the stethoscopic sounds of the
fa'tal heart being very rapid, although the pulse in the funis be slow ;
an account of an experiment made by a watch ticking under water ;
of the remarkable strength of the foetal pulse as felt in the chord ;
of the absorption of the blood in the chord into the system of the
foetus after delivery ; and the inference from this in favour of the
views of Sir David Barry and Dr. Carson respecting the suction power
of the thorax as influencing the circulation.

OnlDatrsio.omnWse iohlilftihaLeimqrtuoiduSsntooobkrseesor.fveAdirDuiffreitrheinncethse  in the Effects  TohfoArcacxu. mBuy
                                                                                        Cavity of tht

   In this communication Dr. Stokes pointed out a new source of
diagnosis, namely, the paralysis of certain of the respiratory muscles
which results from their vicinity to an inflamed tissue.

   The excitement of muscular tissue produces at first active con
tractions, as shown by pain and spasm ; but when still longer conti
nued, the contractility is either lost or greatly diminished. These
effects may be produced in a threefold manner: 1st, by direct ir
ritation of the muscular tissue ; 2ndly, by the contiguity of muscle
to an inflamed tissue ; and 3rdly, by irritation in the cerebro-spinal
centres or nerves. Of these, the first have been recognised in cer
tain thoracic diseases ; but the second, or the paralysing effect, has
been hitherto neglected.
TRANSACTIONS OP THE SECTIONS.  99

    There are three diseases of the thoracic viscera in which this in
jury of muscular action takes place/rom the inflammation of a con
tiguous structure, namely, bronchitis, pleuritis, and pericarditis, and
in ail there is evidence of this paralysis taking place.

  - The author dwelt principally on the lesions of the intercostals and
diaphragm, and showed that in emphysema the characteristic smooth
ness of the side and depression of the diaphragm were to be attri

buted to this paralysis, resulting from the previous inflammation.
He showed that it was commonly absent in Laennecs emphysema,
even where the chest was much enlarged ; that it did not occur in
enlargements of the liver, and was often absent in hydrothorax.
Dr. Stokes suggested that in bronchitis this paralysis affecting the
circular muscles of Reissessen might be the cause of fatal accumu
lations in bod catarrhs, and further, that dilatation of the bowels might
in some instances arise from it. He offered an explanation of death
in pericarditis, by referring it to this paralysis affecting the heart, and
suggested a new explanation of the succession of hypertrophy with
dilatation to pericarditis, in which the yielding of the heart and ca
vities during its weakened state caused the dilatation, while the sub
sequent hypertrophy was due to the efforts made by the heart, on
recovering its tone, to propel the blood into vessels not proportion
ally dilated

    Lastly, the stethoscopic phenomena of accumulation of air, as in
Laennec's emphysema, were shown to be greatly modified by the
yielding of the chest. The author came to the conclusion that the
feebleness of respiration in this case is more an indication of com
pression of the lung than a direct sign of the muscular emphysema
of Laennec.

On Aneurism by Anastomosis. By R. Adams, A.M^ Member of
                         the Royal College of Surgeons.

   The subjects treated of were divided into two sections. 1. On
aneurism by anastomosis of the capillary arteries and veins. 2. On
the pulsating form of the disease. The structure of these different
forms of aneurism was described as far as is yet known, many cases
being detailed and drawings referred to ; a mode of investigating the
ultimate arrangement of the minute arteries was recommended ; and
a short allusion made to the subjects of diagnosis, prognosis, and
treatment of the disease.

AbssDWptrrhar.eicrsetHt uoJooftfitnthotaesn,B.Craaansiedn,AotwfroitdphehfiCycoieonngftethnDeiteaMvl eelmMopbamelfroesrnmtofaott/iftoe ntshaoemferthigeShidHtei.pHeamBnyid

   The subject of this observation was an idiot of adult age, and was
only three or four days under the writer's notice when he died of an
acute inflammation of the larynx and lungs. The author confined

                                    h2
  100 BRITISH ASSOCIATION. 1835.

  his observations to the instances of deficient and perverted develop
  ment.

    It appeared that the head was not deformed, but the brain was

  small, and the cranium preternaturally thick, particularly in the

 frontal region. A very considerable portion of the right hemisphere

  of the brain was deficient, and its place occupied by a large cyst
  containing limpid serum. There was also a remarkable deficiency
 of development in other parts of the cerebral mass at this side. The
 optic thalamus, corpus striatum, right pair of the tubercula quadri-
  gemina, crus cerebri, and corpus pyramidale were all less developed
 than the corresponding parts of the opposite side. The optic and
 other nerves were normal, as were also the arteries at the base of the
 brain. The total absence of convolutions and of the grey substance
 of the brain in the situation of the cyst, the deficient development
 of the other parts enumerated, the healthy consistence and appear
 ance of the cerebral mass and its membranes elsewhere, together
 with the history of the case, seemed to indicate that the phaenomena
 were the result of original conformation, and not of any subsequent
  morbid action.

     The left inferior extremity presented all the external characters of
 an accidental dislocation of the thigh upwards and outwards ; but it
 appeared from an examination after death, as well as from the history
 of the individual, that, the dislocation must have been congenital.
 The acetabulum was imperfectly formed, and not adapted to con
 tain the head of the femur. This bone was also of abnormal form.
 The axis of the head and neck fell directly on the anterior instead
 of on the internal surface of the shaft, as if the bone had been
 twisted ; the head of the femur was smaller and less spherical than
 usual, and the bone was in some degree atrophied. The ligaments
 were of healthy structure, and retained their usual connexions, but
 seemed to have been gradually elongated so as to allow the head of
 the bone to rest on the dorsum ilii. There was no cavity formed
 here, but some strong ligamentous bands connected the capsule,
 where it invested the head of the femur, with the surface of the
 ilium. The interarticular ligament was of a broad taper-like form

 and much elongated ; the cotyloid formed a flat moulding round the
acetabulum. The muscles were healthy in structure, but in some
degree atrophied, and the direction of their fibres was changed ac
cording to the altered relative situation of their usual lines and
points of origin and insertion.

    There was no trace whatever of previous violent injury or of dis
ease of any of the structures in or around the articulation.

    The left arm was flexed, atrophied, and nearly useless ; the hand
was extremely pronated. The flexed state of the limb seemed to
depend on the contracted state of the muscles ; the pronation of the
hand or the circumstance of the inferior cubito-radial articulating
surface of the ulna presenting inwards, instead of outwards and for
wards, and the radius being accommodated to it.

   The subject of these observations seemed to have very few ideas,
and these were of the most simple kind, principally connected with
              TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                                         101

his sensations. He apprehended some, however, to which he could
not give utterance. He had little use of language, and articulated
indistinctly. He was reported to have imperfect vision in the left
eye, and to have been lame from his birth ; but he walked much,
inclining forwards and to the left side, and touching the ground
with the toes only of the left foot : he used no support His left
arm was nearly useless.

    The apparent relation between the several portions of the brain
in their development ; the normal state of the optic nerves in con
nexion with the defective condition of the right pair of the tuber-
cula quadrigemina ; the similarity in the state of the arteries sup
plying either hemisphere of the brain ; the imperfect and perverted
development of the left extremities in connexion with the deficiency
in the right hemisphere of the brain ; and the anatomical condition
of the left hip-joint, seem to the author to be the principal points of
interest in the case which he detailed.

Description of a Case   osfuDcceefsosrfmulliytypoerffothremPeed.lvis,Biyn  which   the Ccesa-
                                                                           G. B.
    rean Operation was                                                            Knowles,
M.R.C.S., F.L.S., Lecturer on, Botany at the Birmingham School

of Medicine.

Propositions concerninvgatiToynps.husBFyevDerr,.dPedeurcreyd.from numerous Obser

1st. That typhus fever is an idiopathic disease, solely produced
                        by the introduction into the system of a spe
by contagion, that    is,
cific animal poison.                       is
   2nd. That this specific          the(acsoufarsreasofyetthiksniodwionp)atohnicly
rated in the human body     poison                                                  gene
                            during                                                  fever.

3rd. That no other fever, arising either from general causes, as
cold, fatigue, improper ingesta, local lesions, or marsh miasmata,
capable of generating this specific poison, or, in other words, pro
                                                                           a
ducing contagious typhus.                                                     is
                                                                                       a

                                                                                                    is
4th. That this contagious idiopathic typhus runs certain course,
which may be modified, but cannot be checked, and distinguish
able from all other fevers by certain symptoms, which, in greater
or less degree, are uniformly present during its course.
5th. That the following the usual course of the symptoms by
                            is

which contagious typhus may be distinguished, viz. languor, nau
sea, frontal headach, rigors, loss of strength and appetite, followed
by increase of thirst, quickened pulse, heat and dryness of skin, pain
of back, or general soreness over body. The tongue becomes white at
the base and centre, florid at the tip and edges, and on the fifth day
from the first attack of headach, rigors, or nausea, a reddish slightly
elevated, but irregular papular or measly eruption comes out, some
times sparingly, at other times thickly scattered over the trunk and
limbs, but rarely appearing on the face. As the fever advances in

severity, the frontal headach abates, the tongue becomes dry and brown
102 BBITI8H ASSOCIATION.. 1S35.

in the centre, the eyes dull, heavy, and suffused, the pulse quicker,
the thirst more urgent, the skin more dry and warm, and the mind

disturbed. Gn the sixth day the eruption becomes more general
and distinct, like rubeola, occasionally fading or disappearing sud
denly, and becoming as the disease advances flattened and of a
darker or duskier hue ; and when the fever is accompanied with con
gestion of the brain or lungs, or by thickening of the lining mem
brane of the bronchial vessels, it assumes that livid appearance
usually called petechia. This eruption, when slight, frequently dis

appears in a few days, but more frequently is visible during the
whole course of the disease.

6th. That simple unmixed contagious typhus usually continues

for fourteen days from the first attack, when the febrile symptoms
abate, the eye becomes clearer, the skin softer, and the mind com
posed, with less thirst ; there is sometimes a slight abatement of the
symptoms on the tenth day, particularly in children, at times nearly

complete.
   7th. That when the febrile symptoms continue beyond the fifteenth

day without abatement, local lesions exist, to which must be attri
buted the longer continuance of the febrile symptoms. The appe
tite frequently continues defective till the twenty-first day, when all

the functions resume their healthy action.

   8th. That contagious typhus is often to be met with in combina
tion with other diseases, usually of a local character, as of the
lungs, the mucous membrane of the stomach and intestines, more
particularly the aggregated glands of the ilium, or the membranes of

the brain.

   9th. That by the local diseased action of the parts above men
tioned, the febrile action of the system is kept up ; but the character
of the disease is changed ; and in such cases it frequently goes on
to a fatal termination, or abates upon the twenty-first day from the
commencement of the disease.

    10th. That between the ages of seven and fifty, nineteen out of

twenty are susceptible of being affected by contagious typhus if ex

posed to the contagion, and not protected by having previously had

the disease ; but that children under five years are rarely affected
with contagious typhus, and under two may continue to suckle or

sleep with the mother labouring under typhus without catching the

disease.

    1 1th. That contagious typhus is an exanthematous disease, and,
like smallpox, measles, and scarlet-fever, during its course produces

some change on the system, by which the individual having once

undergone the disease, is (as a general rule) secured against a se
cond   attack, and   may with impunity expose   himself to the conta
gion                  he continue to reside in  the same country in
      of typhus, if

which he previously had the disease.
   12th. That contagious typhus never exists in combination with

any of the exanthematous diseases.
    13th. That in every case of pure typhus the blood undergoes

during the disease a considerable change, becoming darker in CO
TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.  103

lour, and in many cases losing the power of coagulating when
drawn from the arm, and in all cases being more loose in texture ;
and when death ensues during the course of the disease, the blood

contained in the heart and large vessels is dark and fluid.

    14th. That inflammation of the membranes of the brain, of the
bronchia, and of the mucous membrane of the stomach and intes

tines, and various febrile affections arising from cold, fatigue, im
proper ingesta, &c. &c., more particularly disease of the aggregated
glands of the ilium, and the mucous follicles, usually termed dotheu-
enterite, have been confounded by medical practitioners with typhus
fever, and are characterized by dissimilar symptoms, and require a
very different mode of treatment.

    15th. That the congested state of the vessels of the brain, the
serous fluid on its surface, and the dark fluid state of the blood are
the most constant morbid appearances to be met with in post mor
tem inspections of those who have died of contagious typhus ; and in
many cases the only morbid appearances which are to be found, and
the next in frequency, is the thickening or darker appearance of the
lining of the bronchial membrane ; and the third in order is the dis
eased state of the mucous membrane of the intestines, more parti
cularly that of the aggregated glands of the ilium. The relative
proportion of these states to each other varies considerably, according
to the state of the weather as to heat, dryness, &c.

    1 6th. That dothenenterite, or enlargement of the mucous follicles of
the smaller intestines, and enlargement and ulceration of the aggre
gated glands of the lower third of the ilium, occurs in combination
with contagious typhus, and is to be met with in about one in six of
 those who die from typhus, but that it also exists as a disease per se,
where it is characterized by the following symptoms : A quick, irri
 tated pulse ; tongue dry and florid at the tip or throughout, often As
 sured in centre ; thirst urgent ; eyes clear ; no complaint of frontal
 headach ; face alternately flushed and pale, more particularly flush
 ing of one or both cheeks ; less decided anorezia ; pain of epigas
 trium, or in the right and left iliac regions on pressure ; occasional
 vomiting of a greenish fluid ; stools in general natural ; abdomen
 slightly tumid and puffy, but the patient makes little complaint.
 The disease may exist in every degree of mildness or severity, having
 no regular period of termination ; it may run on for two, three, or
 even four weeks, and terminate in gradual restoration to health with
 out any sensible crisis ; or the patient may sink under it from ex
 haustion, or by haemorrhage from the bowels ; or it may end by
 some of the ulcers of the aggregated glands of the lower third of
 the ilium penetrating the coats of the intestines, and part of the

  contents being effused, exciting peritonitis, under which the patient
 sinks in the course of two, or at most three days.

     The less compressible state of the pulse, the clearness of the eyes,
 the flushing of the cheeks, the more florid, parched, and fissured
  state of the tongue, the comparative absence of the frontal headach,
  and the complete absence of the typhus eruption, sufficiently distin
  guish this disease from contagious typhus. To a practised eye, ih&
 104 BRITISH ASSOCIATION. 1835.

 colour of the face, the flushing of one or both cheeks, the clear eyes,
 with the irritated state of the pulse, are sufficient to point out the dis
 ease and distinguish it from typhus.

     When in combination with typhus, all the symptoms are aggra
 vated in severity after the fourteenth day, and then become more
 distinctly marked. This disease is an equally frequent accompani
 ment of smallpox as of typhus, and presents the same morbid ap
 pearances on post-mortem inspection.

    In those who have died of this disease, of the mucous membrane,
 of the intestines, the blood in the heart and large vessels presents
 the same appearances as in those who have died of chronic inflam
 matory disease, in this respect differing from its appearance in typhus

 cases.

    The observations on which these facts are founded were not made
 to establish any theory. The reports of the cases and post-mortem
 inspections are made in the presence of all who choose to witness
 them ; the facts only are pointed out, and all are at liberty to draw
 their own conclusions from them.

     These sixteen propositions, the result of careful observation in up
 wards of three thousand cases and two hundred post-mortem inspec
 tions, are considered as facts fully ascertained. The following are
 believed, but sufficient evidence cannot as yet be adduced to prove
 them.

     1st That typhus fever does not become infectious till the sixth
 day, and is most contagious when the patient is in the convalescent
 state, when cuticular desquamation usually occurs :

    2nd. That the contagious poison is chiefly spread by the disqua-
mation of the cuticle during the period of his convalescence :

    3rd. That the earliest period of the disease making its appearance
 after exposure to contagion is eight days, more frequently fourteen,
and sometimes as long as two months :

    4th. That in every case of genuine typhus fever the vessels rami
 fied upon the pia mater are more or less enlarged, or congested, and
throw out a serous fluid betwixt the convolutions of the brain and
on its surface, which to a certain degree compresses this organ and
impairs its functions, and along with the morbid state of the blood
is frequently the cause of death in this disease.

On the Use of Chloride of Soda in Fever. By Rob. J.Graves,MJ).

   Dr. Graves commenced a series of clinical experiments in 1832
upon the efficacy of chloride of soda in petechial and maculated
fever. He has exhibited this medium at Sir Patrick Dun's Hospital
and at the Meath Hospital, where its effects have been witnessed by
a great number of physicians as well as pupils. The form recom
mended is Labarraque's solution, which is a saturated solution of
chloride of soda. This was given in doses of from fifteen to twenty-
drops in an ounce of camphor mixture every fourth hour. In the
          TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                     105

commencement of fever, where there is great heat of skin and signs

of vascular excitement, its employment is contraindicated. It is

 also inadmissible in cases where there is decided evidence of vis
 ceral inflammation. When the early stage of fever is past, when all
general and local indications have been fulfilled, when there is no
complication with local disease, when the patient lies sunk and pro
strated, when restlessness, low delirium, and more or less derange
ment of sensibility is present, when the pulse is quick, when the
body is covered with macula; or petechias, and the secretions from
the skin and mucous membranes give evident proof of what has
been termed a putrescent state of the fluids, it is then that the chlo

ride of soda may be prescribed with advantage. It operates, although
not rapidly, yet energetically, in arresting many of those symptoms
which create most alarm. It seems to counteract the tendency to
tympanitis, to correct the fcetor of the excretions, to prevent collapse,
to promote a return to a healthy state of the secretions of the skin,

bowels, and kidneys; in fact, it appears admirably calculated to
meet the bad effects of low putrid fever. Its employment does not
preclude the use of wine or other approved remedies. Dr. Graves
has used it in several hundred cases of typhus, and strongly recom
mends its employment in that disease.

Original  Views of the    Functions   and Diseases of  the  Intestinal
                  Canal,             Dr. O'Beirne.
                          fyc. By

   Dr. O'Beirne commenced by stating, that although the great ma
jority of published and private opinions are strongly in favour of the
views on this subject put forth in his late work, many objections and
prejudices remain to be removed ; and that although his ,niode of
treating enteric diseases has been most successfully employed for
nearly twelve years in Ireland, and wherever it has been tried during
the last two years and a half, it has not yet come into as general use
as might be expected. He then addressed himself to the objections
which have been urged against his theoretical and practical views,
and advanced a great number of facts and arguments to show the
unsoundness of those objections. Finally, he briefly related several
cases of dysentery, strangulated hernia, and tympanitis, in which
the new treatment proved superior to any other, for the purpose of
removing the prejudices which appear to prevail so generally against
its employment in those diseases.

       On Purulent Ophthalmia. By Dr. Evory Kennedy.
   Dr. Evory Kennedy gave a report of numerous cases of purulent
ophthalmia of infants, in which leeching, constant removal of the pu

rulent secretion, and caustic applications, modified according to the
violence of the attack, and, in aggravated cases, the solid nitrate of
silver, applied to the interior of the lids, had proved most successful.
106 BRITISH ASSOCIATION. 1835.

   A notice of the curved Drill Catheter, invented        by Mr. Fr ascis
l'Estrange, was presented to the meeting.

   Mr. Hawkins exhibited to the Section specimens of Harrington's
patent Electrizer.

Abstract of a  RCeogilsltirnys,keMpt.Din^  the Lying-in   Hospital of Dublin.   JBy
       Robert                                late Master  of that Institution.

The numerous tables accompanying this communication were
taken by Dr. Collins, with much care, from a registry kept by him
of IS,*!* deliveries occurring in the Dublin Lying-in Hospital in a
period of seven years, commencing November 1826, during which
he had the medical charge of the institution.

   The tables are placed in the following order : first, tables relating
to all preternatural presentations met with in 16,414 deliveries;
next, those relating to labours complicated with haemorrhage ; re
tention of the placenta ; convulsions ; rupture of the uterus or va

gina ; with  two or more children          ; or when the frenis     umbilicalis
descended    before the ' child ; and      lastly, relating to the
                                                                    number of
still-born children, and the number dying during the period of the

mother's residence in the hospital.
   The total number of preternatural presentations met with in the
hospital during Dr. Collms's residence as master was 409, (not in
cluding those occurring in twin cases,) or 1 in every 40. Of the
409, 242 were breech presentations, 127 were cases of presentation
of the feet, 40 of the arm or shoulder.

   Of cases of hemorrhage, 11 were unavoidable; 13 were acci

dental ; 64 occurred between the birth of the child and the expul
sion of the after-birth ; 43 were subsequent to expulsion of the pla

centa.

   Sixty-six cases of retention of the placenta occurred ; 30 cases of
convulsions ; 34 cases of rupture of uterus or vagina ; 240 women
were delivered of twins. Of the 480 children, 422 were born alive ;

245 were males; 309' presented' naturally ; 73 with the breech; 60
with the feet; 7 with the arm or shoulder.
There were 97 cases of prolapsus of the umbilical chord.
Of 16,654 children, 1,121 were still-born: 527 of these were
putrid; 614 were males.
   Of 16,654 children born, 214 died previous to the mother leaving
the hospital (generally on the 8th or 9th day after delivery).
AH the results above stated are further analvsed with reference to
the age of the mother; first, second, &c. time of pregnancy ; length of
time in   labour, and
          been found   other circumstances important to medical     science.
It has                  impracticable to abstract the numerous      and de

tailed tables and deductions contained in this valuable registry, so
as to do justice to
Dr. Collins refers   the author's views,   hwisith' oPurat cotciccuapl yTinregatimseanoynpaMgieds.
                     on some points to

wifery.'
               TRANSACTIONS OF THE SUCTIONS.                                           107

MECHANICAL SCIENCES APPLIED TO THE ARTS.

On Impact and Collision. By Eaton Hodgkinson.

Mr. Hodgkinson reported to the Section the results of certain ex
periments made by him on impact and collision, in continuation of
those communicated to the Association in the year 1834 on the
collision of imperfectly elastic bodies. The results were,
First, That cast-iron beams being impinged upon by certain
heavy masses or balls of metal of different kinds, were deflected

through the same distance, whatever were the metals used, provided
that the weights of the masses were equal.
Secondly, That the impinging masses rebounded after the stroke
through the same distances, whatever was the metal of which they

were composed, provided that the weights were the same.
Thirdly, That the effect of the masses of different metals imping
ing upon an iron beam were entirely independent of their elasticities,

and were the same as they would give if the impinging masses were

inelastic.
Mr. Hodgkinson also gave the result of some interesting experi
ments on the fracture of wires under different states of tension, from
which it appeared that the wire best resisted fracture and impact
when it was under the tension of a weight which, being added to
                      of it,  equalled one third of the force that was ne
that impinging upon
cessary to break it.

On the Solid least Resistance. By           Russell.
                                            J.

                                                  S.
                                                                           it
Mr. Russell was called upon to give an account of a new form for

the construction of ships, by which they should experience least re

sistance from the water in their passage through it. A vessel of 75
feet keel and feet beam had been built on this new formation,
               6

and made the   subject of     nvaemryedactchuera"teWaevxep"e,riemxepnetrsie, ncfreodm   which
appeared that  this vessel,                                                            much less

resistance in passing through the water than vessels of the very finest

formation and from the best builders on the old construction.
Mr. Russell then detailed very minutely the mode of forming any
vessel on his plan when the length and breadth were given. The
peculiarity, in general terms, appears to be the formation of the en
trance lines from parabolic' arcs, so as to have a point of inflection at

about one sixth part from the bow of the vessel, before which the bow

concave externally, giving the finest possible entrance at the stern,
is
           is
at an angle of contact infinitely small, and behind which the con
vexity external and the formation elliptical to the midship section,

after which the formation becomes wholly ellipsoidal. Mr. Russell
had been induced to consider this solid as the solid of least resistance

from pha;nomenon that appeared to distinguish this form from all
a
108 BRITISH ASSOCIATION. -- 1835.

 others, namely, that it entered the water at the highest velocities
without breakmg in the slightest degree the evenness of its surface ;
that, while at high velocities all other formations dashed the water
into spray or raised it in waves above the surface, this vessel, at ve
locities of 16 or 18 miles an hour, appeared to give no motion to any
particles of water, excepting such as happened to lie in its path. He
considered the entrance into smooth water without ruffling the sur
face as the criterion of minimum resistance.

   Mr. Russell observed, that the form had been constructed on a
hypothetical view of the subject, viz. that the minimum force requi
site to alter the position of any fluid particle would be that which
gave to the particle a uniformly accelerated velocity through the
former half of its path, and a uniformly retarded velocity during the
remainder ; that the well-known relation of the coordinates of the
parabola accomplished this in the manner formerly explained, but
that he rested for the proof of the correctness of the theory upon

the experiments he had already adduced.

   Mr. Ilussell then described a very simple mode of construction, by
which the ordinates of a circle or a table of sines might be used so
as, in the most elementary mechanical manner, to form a very close
approximation to the solid of least resistance ; and he concluded by
drawing the lines of a vessel of given dimensions according to the
new formation of least resistance.

       On Vibration of Railtoays. By Capt. Denham, R.N.

    Capt. Denham ascertained that the vibrating effects of a passing
laden railroad train in the open air extended laterally on the same
level 1110 feet, (the substratum of the positions being the same,)
whilst the vibration was quite exhausted at 100 feet when tested ver
tically from a tunnel.

   The tunnel was through a stratum of sandstone rock : the rails
laid in the open air on a substratum of 12 feet of marsh over sand
stone rock. The method of testing was by mercury reflecting ob
jects to a sextant. The experiments were made in the neighbour
hood of Liverpool.

On  certain points in  thDer.ThLeaorrdy noefrOteanCdonCs.trVucigtionnolloefsR.ailroads.

         By the Rev.

On the Monthly   Reports of t/ie Duty  ofBSyteaJomh-enngTinaeys loerm, pFloJyi.eSd^in
   draining the  Mines of Cornwall.
Treasurer of the British Association.

   Mr. Taylor observed that he had found at this and other Meetings
of the Association considerable interest to be expressed with regard
to this method of recording the actual effect produced by the con-
TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                  109

 sumption of a given quantity of fuel, and recommended it to the
notice of engineers in general. The monthly reports alluded to gave
 the means of comparing one engine with another in this district;
 they also afforded an historical view of the progress of improvement
in this important machine; and they had, Mr. Taylor believed,
 contributed largely to that improvement, by the emulation and at
tention excited by them in the persons who had the charge of con

structing and managing the engines.

   Mr. Taylor stated that the work done in the best engines now
employed in Cornwall by the consumption of one bushel of coal, re
quired ten or twelve· years ago the consumption of two bushels ;
that during the period of Boulton and Watt's patent four bushels
were consumed to do the same work, and that in the earlier stages of
the employment of steam power the quantity of coal used was 16
bushels. So that by the progressive advance of improvement one
bushel had become sufficient for the duty that formerly required

sixteen.

   Mr. Taylor, in remarking on the importance of this subject to the

deep mines of Cornwall, stated, that the steam-engines now at work
for the purpose of draining the mines there were equal in power to
at least 44,000 horses, and that as some doubts had frequently been
expressed as to the accuracy of the results shown by the duty re
ports, he had compared them some time since with the accounts
of the coal actually used in some of the principal mines at different
periods, by which he found the saving of money was as great as the
reports indicated, and that their general accuracy was borne out
fully by the account books, where this was incontestably proved.

    Description of a Self-regiSstteerivngellyB.arometer. By Professor

   During the oscillations of the common barometer, when it falls, a
certain quantity of mercury is added to that already in the cistern,
which of course adds so much to its weight ; on the contrary, when
it rises, mercury retires from the cistern, which thereby becomes so
much lighter than before. If, then, the tube of a barometer be fixed
firmly in its place, but the cistern be by any means so suspended as
to move downwards by equal distances for equal additions to its
weight, and to rise similarly for similar diminutions of its weight, it
is clear that a scale may be placed beside the cistern ; and an index
carried by the cistern may be made to mark upon the scale a
variety of positions corresponding to the rising and falling of the

common barometer. It may be shown to any person even slightly
conversant with mathematical subjects, that the range of this scale

may be made to bear any proportion to that of the common baro
meter. Supposing for an instant what is now stated to be accom
plished, it is obvious that a pencil may be so attached to the cistern
as to rise and fall with and thus to mark on properly ruled sheet
of paper, carried by clockwork across the instrument, the indications
it,
                                            a
110 BRITISH ASSOCIATION. 1835.

of the barometer at the successive hours of the day; and thus a
curve representing the actual diurnal oscillations of the barometer

can be placed before the eye, and a registry kept from day to day
on separate sheets of paper. The mean curve can also be had by
making the pencil traverse, day after day, for a long period, the
same sheet of paper ; for the pencil-marks will at length become

blackest and heaviest upon the parts corresponding to the mean
curve ; and thus all the labour of actual observation, registry, &c.

will be avoided, and thus, too, much of the trouble of reduction, if

not all, will be saved.
    Many mechanical methods of suspending the cistern will readily

suggest themselves to persons conversant with practical matters ; but
the method that is preferred by the author is by a mercurial hy
drometer, the cistern, for the sake of stability, being suspended
underneath the hydrometer, as in Ronchetti's modification of Nichol
son's hydrometer. The accompanying drawing will give an idea of
the form of the instrument ; the following is the description of it.
The guide-wheels and supports are omitted.

in a popular  manner,               B the barometer tube (it may be of
                                 iron) firmly fixed in its place, and dip

                                   ping below into
                                     C, the cistern, which is suspended by
                                     F, a frame, supported by
                                     S, the pillar or stem of

                                    H, the hydrometer ball, which floats
                                 in

                                    A, a vessel firmly fixed, and contain
                                 ing the mercury (or other fluid) in

                                   which the hydrometer floats.
                                     In the description of this instrument

                                  given to the Subsection, it was sup
                                 posed that the surfaces of the mercury

                               in the cistern and in the vessel A were
                                so large that the rising or falling of

                                 the fluid in these vessels might be

                                  neglected ; also, since the instrument
                                 is very sensible, it was supposed that
                                 the lower part of the barometer tube
                                  which dips into the cistern should be
                                  rendered very small, in order to di
                                 minish unsteady oscillation. Also the
                                 internal part of the barometer tube
                                 B at the upper part, the external
                                 part where it dips into the mercury in
                                 the cistern, as well as the cistern and

                                the vessel A, at the surfaces of the

                                  mercury in them, were all supposed to
                                be cylindrical. And it was then shown

                       that if the internal cross section of the baro
          TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                                                            Ill

meter tube at its upper part were made equal to the cross section of
the pillar or stem of the hydrometer, the sensibility of the instru
ment would be too great for practice ; the scale in that case would

be lengthened out indefinitely, since the hydrometer could never
sink sufficiently to attain a position of equilibrium upon a fall of the

barometer, and vice versa. But if the cross section of the stem or

pillar of the hydrometer be made twice as great as the internal cross
section of the upper part of the barometer, the rising and falling of
the cistern would be exactly equal to the rising and falling of the
common barometer ; and therefore the scale of this instrument would

then be equal to  the scale of the common barometer ; and between
these limits any
                  desired scale, however long, may be obtained. A
scale shorter than that of the common barometer may also be had
by increasing the cross section of the stem of the hydrometer be
yond the above limit ; but this is not likely to be ever desired. When
it ia desirable to save expense, the hydrometer may be made to float
in -water; but of course its dimensions will require to be much
greater in that case : or the cistern may be counterpoised, and a
cylinder like the stem of the hydrometer, dipping into the mercury,

may, by its varying buoyancy, be made to restore the equilibrium.
   The exact mathematical formula which gives the relation of the

scale to that.of the common barometer, whatever be the dimensions
of the parts of the instrument, is of the form 2 h = $ h' x C, where
8 h is the variation of the height of the common barometer, S k' is
the corresponding part of the scale of this instrument, and C a con
stant depending for its value upon the dimensions of the several parts
of the instrument.

       Professor Stevelly also described a very simple and cheap instru
mreemnatrkafobrlew, e--ighainhgydhroymdreotmere-tbraicllallyw, iththea  sensibility of which
                                                                        stem of steel wire,   is very
                                                                                              having
upon it one or two dots of gold, and a scale-pan attached to either                           it,

above as in Nicholson's, or below as in Ronchetti's modification of
the hydrometer. An index, or microscope with horizontal wire,
       attached to the side or cover of the vessel in which the hydroit a      aa
it ismeter floats in such a way that may be steadily and slowly raised
     or lowered to mark the position of the gold-dot, instead of takmg the
     indications from the surface of the fluid, as in the common method.

     The weight of the substance to be weighed then had by placing      is is
        in the scale-pan, bringing the index or wire of the microscope to

     mark the position of the gold-dot, then removing the substance and
     substituting for known weights until the dot again brought to the
       a
                 it

                         it
     same position. Since the adjustment takes place at the instant of

     using the instrument, becomes almost incapable of being deranged,
     and thus very correct balance may be had by common apothe
                                                                        it,
     cary's phial, with a little mercury to steady and a knitting-needle
     pushed down through its cork, and scale-pan placed above. Every
     person knows the difficulty of adjusting the common hydrometer, anda
     its liability to derangement.
         The same principle may be readily conceived to apply to the con
     struction of self-registering rain-gauge.
       a
 112 BRITISH ASSOCIATION. --1835.

    Mr. Andrew Pritchard exhibited examples of various kinds
 of apparatus constructed by him for illustrating the Polarization of
 Light ; and gave a brief account of his improved achromatic micro
 scope, one of which was placed upon the table.

    The construction of a simple polariscope invented by Mr. Pritch
 ard was explained. The crystals to be examined were mounted in
 slides and introduced between tourmalines, by which means sections of
 any crystals that present themselves may be examined, and the cell
 of the upper tourmaline being immoveable can be employed for other
 experiments. A lens was attached for condensing artificial light.

     The mechanical part of the achromatic microscope produced was
 constructed on the principles recently published by Dr. Goring and
 Mr. Pritchard in their works on the microscope : the chief feature in
 the optical part was the execution of a set of object-glasses which
 admitted a pencil of light of sixty-eight degrees, free from spherical
 and chromatic aberration, having the oblique pencils nearly correct
 and the field of view moderately flat. Mr. Pritchard stated expressly
 of this instrument, that it was the simplest that had yet been con
 structed that would accomplish all the work that might be required
 of a microscope, either for general examination, dissection, or minute
 investigation.

    Preparations of various classes of microscopic objects in Canada

 balsam were exhibited.

    Mr. Hawkins explained the principle of Saxton's locomotive Dif
 ferential Pulley ; and a mode of producing rapid and uninterrupted
 travelling by means of a succession of such pulleys set in motion

 by steam-engines or by horses.

    Mr. Cheverton read a paper on Mechanical Sculpture, or the
 production of busts and other works of art by machinery, and illus
trated the subject by specimens of busts and a statue in ivory, which
were laid on the table. This machine, in common with many others,
produces its results only through the medium of a' model to govern
its movements; but it has this peculiarity, that the copy which it
makes of the original is of a size reduced in any proportion, and
that it is enabled to effect this result not merely on surfaces, such as
bas reliefs, but in the round figures, such as busts and statues.

   Mr. Ettrick gave an account of certain improvements proposed

by him in the Astronomical Clock for giving the pendulum a free
motion at right angles to the line of its motion, and thereby pre
venting the tendency to acquire a circular motion by any improper
adjustment of the pendulum-spring.

    He described a mariner's steering-compass provided with two ad
justments, whereby the card was made to point true bearings on the
horizon ; the variation and local attraction being allowed for by regu
lating the position of the needle on the card.
      TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                                                                                                       113

   He also read an account of certain improvements on steam-
engines, for making available the power of the steam of high-pressure
boilers, which is below the pressure of the atmosphere, by allowing
the high-pressure steam to pass off into the atmosphere, and allowing
the steam of low pressure to pass into a condenser through a secon
dary slide. He gave a description of a method of securing the seams
of boilers by longitudinal instead of the present circular clenches ;
and of a machine for drilling boiler-plates as rapidly as they can be
punched by the punching-machine.

   Mr. Roberts exhibited a machine which renders objects visible

Ifwhile revolving 200,000 times a minute.
       a firebrand be whirled, in the dark, round a centre in a plane
perpendicular to the eye of the spectator, it will present the appear
ance of a luminous circle. From this fact it has been inferred, that

the impression on the retina made by the luminous body in its pas
sage through every point of the circle, remains until the body has
completed a revolution. How rapidly soever the firebrand may be
made to revolve, the circle, and therefore every part of will be
                                                                                                              is
                                                                                                                                     it,
distinctly visible hence probability arises, that at the greatest at
                   :
                     a

                                 a
tainable velocity perfect impression of the object in motion will
still be produced on the optic nerve, provided that the time of view

titnhhgreoursgeuhvcohlvinogbsmjebactolldysb,pe--aceliam--nditesamdlsaoltlo, tahttahtaletansowt,hoiwcthhitehra    required for passing

                                                                                                              reference to the size of

                                                                                                              object be presented on
the field of vision before the former spectrum shall have vanished
from the eye unless in the case of the same object under similar
circumstances. The former of these conditionsis
      is 1, ;                       is                                                                        provided for in
machine No. in which the eye-hole      is
                                                        ismade to travel through
   80 feet between every two inspections of the moving object, and
1

which object made to assume a different position at each succes
sive inspection. The latter condition included in machine No. 2;

the object there presented to the eye in one position only.

                                    STATISTICS.

On the Statistics  the Dublin Foundling Hospital, and on Child
      of
            of

                     of
                               of

                                                      of
                                                              of
   Desertion in the City Dublin. By Henry Mauxsell, MJD.,
   Professor Midtmfery to the Royal College Surgeons in Ire
   land, and Ordinary Member the Medical Society Leipzig.

   During thirty-four years, comprised between 1798 and 1831 (in
clusive), there were admitted 51,523 children. Of these, 700 were
immediately restored to their parents, and 12,153 died immediately
in the nursery. These latter must be considered as having been
destroyed by the act of desertion, and therefore cannot fairly be
charged to the account of the hospital.
114 BRITISH ASSOCIATION. -- 1835.

    Let U8 deduct then from the original admissions, viz. .... 51,523

    Died immediately                              J12,153 "I      .  ,,   q  _,.,
    Beturned immediately
                                                       700             '

    The remainder sent to nurse will be           under their 1   38,670

    Of these there are now alive in the country,               J      ___

       ninth year

    Balance to be accounted for                                   37,717

Let us now examine how many of these have reached their ninth
year. 16,976 deaths under the ninth year have been ascertained to
have taken place in the country ; and 8278 children were lost sight
of  in different years (from the first to                   of their
In   the records of the hospital, those    the fourteenth)             age.
                                            children whose   fate has   not

been reported are considered as dead ; but as it is certain that chil
dren were frequently retained by their nurses from motives of af
fection, it becomes necessary to inquire what proportion those so
retained bear to the whole. It appears that 6949 were never brought
back to the hospital after having been first sent to nurse ; and it is
probable that all these died so early as to make it not worth the
nurse's while to apply for the small sum of wages to which she would
be entitled. The number unreported is at its minimum in the third
year of the child's age ; and from that period it increases for seve
ral years. The fourth or fifth year being the period when the nurse
might become fearful of the child's being removed from her, we
shall probably not be far wrong in leaving out of the question those
that may have been kept back during the first three years, and in
supposing that all those unreported after that age have been re
tained from affection.
    Of the whole balance of 37,717, we shall then be able to account

for, as alive at the ninth year, the following :

    Drafted into the hospital above their ninth year                 9946
    Left in the country after their ninth year
    Bestored to parents, having been returned from nurse . . .       1477
    Probably retained from affection                                   359

                                                                     1050

    Total living at their ninth year                              12,832

   During twenty-four years of the period included in the foregoing
statement, children were received at all seasons of the year, and
without any restriction whatsoever ; many, therefore, were destroyed
by carriage from distant places in severe weather. In the year 1822,
admissions were restricted, during the winter months, to children
deserted in the city of Dublin and its environs ; and no child was
received without a certificate of its actual desertion, and of its pa
rents being unknown. Five pounds were also required to be for
warded with each child from its parish. In consequence of these
           TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.               115

changes, the average annual admissions at once fell from 2000 to

500 ; and the rate of mortality was altered as will appear in the
following statement :

/During the five years from 1822 to 1826 (inclusive) there "1 ,,,,,,,,
    were admitted
Returned to parents immediately                                      14

Balance to be accounted for                            2325

Of these,

Died immediately                             172

Died at nurse before ninth year              819

Died after return from nurse                 39
Not reported up to ninth year, many of whom may! .,,.
      have been retained from affection   J

Total dead or unaccounted for                          1161

Total alive at ninth year                              1 164

According to the Northampton table, the survivors at the ninth
year, of 2325, should be only 1 143.

Since the year 1831, the Foundling Hospital has been closed, and
each parish has been chargecftjwith the care of its own foundlings.
   The accompanying      table will
lings in those parishes  of the city  sohof wDuthbelinmionrtawlihtyichamreocnogrdsfouwnedre

kept

Return of Mortality of Foundlings in some Parishes of Dublin,
  from the closure of the Foundling Hospital in 1831 to January

    1835.

                         Anne's. Bnde 3. George's. Mary's. Peter's. Thomas'*.

Died                     18 32 20 26 74 37
                         11 12 14 10 21 24

   The following table shows the number of infanticides that have
been ascertained to have occurred in Ireland during two years pre
ceding 1831, in the course of which the hospital was closed, and
also during the years 1831, 1832, 1833, and 1834. Owing to the
imperfection of the records, the number in all those years must be

greatly below the truth. It is however so far valuable as it shows

a contrast between periods during which the Foundling Hospital
was closed and open.

                                        t2

                                                                                             .--
116 BRITISH ASSOCIATION.-- 1835.
                                    Infanticides.

                      1829. 1830. 1831. 1832. 1833. 1834.

                      Inq lot Inquest           Inquest Inquest Inquest                            Inquest
                          not            - not          ! not         1not                   not             not
                held.     held.  held. held.    held. held.    held, held.           held.  held.  held. held.
                                     |

                      16         14             29             35 ... 40                           31 1

Ulster                22 12 13 20 ... I26 29 1

                      12 2 2                                                    ...  4             3
                               a                                                                          5
                                          22

                                                    1
                                                              '

                                                       :::

                                                                             1
                      18 14 22 23 ...|so 24

         Total        58 ... 42|                66 ... 79 ... 100 ...187                           7

The average expense of each child in charge of the Foundling
Hospital, at a time when large boarding-school establishment, with
educational and hospital staff, was kept up, may be stated at 51. per
         ;
annum. In the year 1826 the whole number of children amounted
to 6339 and of these upwards of. one sixth were maintained in
the hospital at an annual expense, for feeding and clothing, of
from 6/. to 11. per child. The whole expense during that year was
33,729/. 9*. lO^rf., being fraction more than 5/. per child. This
                               a

included all expenses, salaries, wages, annuities, repairs of buildings,

and apprentice fees.

Under the present parochial system, the nurses' wages alone va
ries from Is. 6d. to 2s. per week, or frdla 3/. 18s. to 5/. 4s. per annum.
There also an additional expense incurred with each child for keep
ing beforeis

      it
           is

                                              ;
                                                          a
                sent to nurse, which in one parish (Anne's) amounts
to 5s. per diem. The parish children are as yet too young to require
any additional expenditure but in few years a considerable de
mand must be made for education, clothing, and apprentice fees.
   The items of expenditure in the Foundlmg Hospital, exclusive of
salaries and expenses of establishment, are as follow
                                                                                     :
                                                                                                ;
Allowance to nurse for first five years, 31. per annum, with, at the
end of the first year, gratuity for good nursing, of 11. after the
fifth year,  10s. allowed yearly for clothing and education.is
             has been constructed, showing the proportion of theit a                               sexes
   A table

of children received into the Foundling Hospital during twenty-four
years; from which              appears that of 82,324, 15,179 were males,

and 17,145 females.

   The large table from which the statements made in the com
mencement of this abstract were deduced, contains several particu

lars respecting the children in charge of the hospital since 1798.
These, however, would not admit of being presented in abstract.

   Tables have been constructed, showing the yearly number of ad
missions into the Foundling Hospital from the different parishes of
Dublin during twelve years preceding its closure, and also the yearly
number deserted in the same parishes since the shutting up of the
hospital in 1831. The results of these are contrasted in the accom

panying tables, which show the average yearly desertions under each

system.
Table  sher.g                    t. avearge haer.     Desert.ong           .n .-.  .r..        of Duea.      5r5g     t. 15s   182,                     188,    189, and 1830.

                                        "a
                                      a1 2                                                                         3 -s 9  Is .SC1.CO                                         3
       uadj -a                                                                           a        13 5                     lis       O li               I2 i
       !81 5<                                                                                                1 .i                                                  ia (5
                                  §                                                I-1
                                                                                                             i2            *P                                                 1*       W V. en> n o 11to O
     i& 2

              82

11 ·< 9
       13 12 12                                                                          29 10                                                                     30 10

Table  s.owing             the avearge    haery           Desert.ong     . t.e     same  Par..es   s.ce      closure of the   Foundl.g                  Hosp.tal,  compr.s.g
                                        1832,         1833, and                                   R.turns       of Numbers
                part of 1831,                                         1834; calculated      from                              and Assessments.

ia< 5                                      Vg1e       s                                                     3 y9a jq "ox -Si                                                       3a w »iH o H SIjp - JS
                                        u                                                                                                           2*
       a                         i11"is                               o                         19                                                                     11
                        <            B
<                                                                               iI                                                                                                              -
                                                                                                                                                                                             a
                                                                                i"qj
                             No                                        No                            No         «All re              No                               13 8
*6 Accounts.                                                                       +20 Accounts.                              Accounts.
                                                      te Accounts.                                           *4 fused.                                          "1

                                              5
                                 8
                                        #14                                                                                                                     *8 20 tis t24

                                                                                                      J.

                              ;

       J· ·f
       Thus marked, calculated from                          assessments.
                                                              for the whole
       Thus marked, had not accounts                                but as t.ere   per.od.
                                                                                    .ave been
       No accounts .n N.c.olas                        W.th.                                       some, t.e  av.arge  of t.e four .ears                 cannot  be less t.an
 118 BRITISH ASSOCIATION. 1835.

            On Wages in India. By Lieut.- Colonel Sykes.

    Colonel Sykes read a -statement of the rate of wages in India
 measured in kind, and also measured in money. He enumerated
 some of the various places in which he made his inquiries, for the
 purpose of showing that towns and villages the most distant from
 each other were chosen to prevent the mistake of adopting local
rates as if they were of general operation. Labourers in India are
 seldom paid in money, except when grain is very dear, a custom
 obviously injurious to the labourers. Wages in India are very low.
 When paid in money, three rupees (rather less than six shillings) is
 the usual monthly pay of a labourer in agriculture, without food,
 clothes, lodging, or any other advantages. The cause of the low
 rate of wages of labourers in India appears to be the small quantity
of useful work they do. The author states, that when in the Poona
collectorate on the 16th of February 1829, he overtook twelve or
fourteen men and women with bundles of wheat in the straw on
their heads. On inquiry, he found they had been employed as la
bourers in pulling tip a field of wheat. Their wages had been five
sheaves for every hundred gathered : two or three of the men had
got five sheaves each, the majority only four, and none of the women
more than three. Five sheaves, they said, would yield about an im
perial gallon of wheat, and would sell for about threepence-halfpenny

sterling.

   At the end of his paper the author formed some tables, in which
he placed in juxtaposition the rates of wages paid to different classes
of artificers, servants, and labourers under the British government
in 1828, and Peshwa's government in 1814; and also the prices of
grains, pulses, and other articles of the ordinary consumption of
labourers under the British government and under the Peshwa's

government at the same periods, viz. 1814 and 1828.

   These tables show a marked improvement in the wages of all
classes of labourers, although grain became from 20 to 50 per cent.
cheaper under the British than under the Peshwa government.
This increase has been greatest in the wages of the lowest classes of

labourers.

Remarks on the     Statistics contained in the Ordnance Survey  of  tlte

        Parish of  Templemore. By C. Babbage, F.R.S., fyc.

   To discover those principles which will enable the greatest num
ber of people by their combined exertions to exist in a state of phy
sical comfort and of moral and intellectual happiness, is the legitimate
object of statistical science.

   To effect this object, religious, moral, and practical instruction are
necessary ; and to enable us to reason from the sound basis of ex
perience, we must patiently collect and classify those facts which
affect the well-being of mankind. These facts have been so col
lected lor one district of Ireland on an extensive scale in the present
         TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                      119

volume, and so well arranged and classified, that each person de
siring to put his theoretical views to the test of experience, or to
generalize from the fertile field of instances here collected, may
most readily separate the facts which he desires to make use of.
Professor Babbage concluded with some observations on the man
ner in which, in future periods, this monument of industry and in
telligence will contribute to the amelioration of the moral and phy
sical condition of the people.

      Inquiries carried on by the Statistical Society of Manchester.
   Mr.W. R.Greg and Mr. W. Langton presented on behalf of the
Statistical Society of Manchester the heads of inquiry and the forms
used in conducting their inquiries into the state of education, into
the condition of the working classes, and into the means existing for
the religious instruction of the working classes.
    These inquiries have been instituted in Manchester and in some
of the neighbouring towns.

   Mr.W. Langton read to the Section an abstract of the Report of
a Committee of the Manchester Statistical Society on the State of

Education in the Borough of Manchester in 1834.

    The Report showed the following results.
    The numbers then attending the different schools in Manchester
were 43,304 ; of whom

                   10,108 attended day and evening schools only,
                  10,011 attended both day and Sunday schools,
                  23,185 attended Sunday schools only.

         43,304

   The population of the borough of Manchester being then about
200,000, the number of persons receiving instruction was 21 per
cent, of the population. Of those attending day and evening schools
the numbers gave proportion of about 10 per cent, of the popu
5
                              5lation.
                                a

                                                     it

                                                                                           5
                                                                                                                                                -J-
From the number of about 43,000 scholars 10,000 were deducted

as being under and above 15 years of age, which left about 33,000
as the number of children between the ages of and 15 under course
of instruction. The whole number of children between the ages of

   and 15 in the borough of Manchester being estimated at 50,000
(or +th of the whole population),
                                   would thus appear that about
-f-rds of this number are educated, and that -frd are receiving no in
struction whatever.

The returns made by the overseers to Government under Lord

Kerry's motion, had been examined by the committee in three town
ships out of nine which constitute the borough of Manchester, and
considerable errors had been discovered in each return.
In the township of Manchester alone, which contained popula
                                                         a
120 BRITISH ASSOCIATION. -- 1835.

tion x>f 142,000 in 1831, there were entirely omitted in those returns
1 infant school, 10 Sunday schools, and 176 day schools, which
existed at the period when those returns were made, and contained
10,61 1 scholars. False returns were made by one individual of three
Sunday schools that never existed at all, and which were stated to
contain 1590 scholars; and double returns were made of three other
schools, containing 375 scholars ; so that the total error in those re
turns for the township of Manchester alone was 181 schools and
8646 scholars. Besides this, eight dame schools were reported as
infant schools.

    The tables annexed to the report of the committee gave a classi
 fication of the schools in the borough, showing the relative number
 of scholars of each sex, and the date of their establishment ; the
 mode in which supported ; the terms of payment in the dame schools,
 common day schools, evening and infant schools ; the course and
 mode of instruction pursued ; the country and religious profession
 of the masters or mistresses ; the number of years they had been
 engaged in teaching, and the number who had been educated for
 the employments, &c.

     Upon the superior private and boarding schools no minute report
 was given. One of the Mechanics' Institutions was stated to be in a
 very prosperous condition.

     The education given in the common day schools, containing nearly
 7000 children, was represented to be generally very poor, few of the
 teachers being at all qualified for their task ; and the committee
 consider that no effectual means can be taken to render these schools
 efficient until proper seminaries are established for the instruction of
 the teachers themselves.

     The report states that of 4722 children attending the dame schools,
 the vast majority receive no instruction at all deserving of the name,
 and derive little benefit from their attendance at school but that of
 being kept out of harm during a few hours of the day. The esta
 blishment of infant schools on a large scale is recommended with a
 view gradually to supplant the dame schools.

     The Sunday schools which had above 33,000 scholars on their
 books, with an average attendance of nearly 25,000, are classed in
 various ways in the tables. They are reported by the committee to
 form a most important feature among the means existing for the
 education of the lower classes of the people, and their influence is
 represented as highly beneficial.

    Mr. Greg and Mr. Langton also presented to the Section an un
 published Table showing a general summary of schools in Bury, Lan
 cashire ; drawn up from an investigation just completed in that
 borough by the Education Committee of the Manchester Statistical

  Society.
TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.  121
col HSIJ.IHH ·NOI1VI308SV -- "5681

                Foreigners.             g
Welch, Scotch, Irish, English,                          ·

       Parents. oj Country

for there FaaremiBlye.dstnmeany How

? comfortable House the Is

furnished? well House the ls

write. can who Number

  read. can who Number
Dwelling. oj Rent Weekly

Club. Clothiers' or Order,
Secret    Building.Club   Club,
Benefit-   in Family oj  Number

     None. Jew, Catholic,
Roman Dissenter, Church,

      Profession. Religious

 Plas and Painters &ercw. otemreerns,,
  Wash Sempstresses,Tailors,
Shoemakers, Cutters, Fustian
Dyers, Calenderers, Carters,

Occupations. Other

Blacksmiths. bourers,
La Glaciers, and Plumbers
Cabinet.makers, said Joiners
Stonemasons,          Bricklayers,

Trades. Building

&c. Errand-boys, Packers, &
Porters Travellers, Salesmen,
Clerks, Warpers, and Winders

           Warehousemen.

     Cloth.  Woollen   Blanket,
Flannel,     Cotton,  Silk, Fancy,

             -Weavers.

  EL F.C. Dressers, Weavers,
Powerloom Heelers, Piecers,
Stretchers, Carders, Spinners,
Factories. Cotton in Employed

                   "Wage*.
receiving Children oj Number
19. under Children oj Number
12. above Children oj Number

            Lodgings.
or Cellar, Room, House,

Family. oj Number

             Lodger. Chiej                                 a
or Family oj Father oj Name

         Door. oj Number

             Street.
       TRANSACTIONS OF THB SECTIONS.                 123

List of Inquiries adopted by the Statistical Society of Manchester
concerning the Means existing for  the  Religious    Instruction of the
Working Classes in Manchester.

    1. How many sittings are there of all descriptions in your church
or chapel, distinguishing those which axe free from those which are
not free ?

    2. How many services have you on each Sunday, and what is the
average attendance at each, in the free sittings and in the appropriated

sittings ?

   3. Of the sittings which are not free, how many are at the rate of
51. per annum each and under, and how many of them are let ?

   4. What accommodation have you for your Sunday scholars in
your church or chapel? What is their number and average at
tendance at each service ?

   5. Is any district of the town assigned to or adopted by you as the
sphere of your personal labours among the poor, and what is that
district ?

   6. Have you connected with your church or chapel any society

for the purpose of assisting your labours among the poor ? and if so,

what is the nature and extent of that society ?

   The Rev. E. Stanley presented the results of a Statistical Inquiry

into the education and religious state of the parish of Alderley in
Cheshire, which had been drawn up for the Statistical Society of
Manchester in 1835.

On the Glasgow Bridewell or House of Correction. By Dr. Cleland.
   The following subjects are discussed :--
   The construction of the building ; the number of prisoners on the

23rd July 1835; their religious persuasion, age, and sex; abstracts
of accounts ; details of salaries and wages, and diet ; proportions of
re-committals (males, females, and terms of first sentence distin
guished). The following is a General Abstract for ten years.

Tear.       Total     Daily   Coat to the Public of  Cost of the Establish
       Committals.  Average.     maintaining each     ment to the Public.
                                      Individual.

1825.  1540         200       £ s. d.                 £ s. d.
1826.  1398         250
       1696         257       289                    593 0 0
1827.  1770         287       3 14 9                 934 13 8
1828.               274       333                    813 8 11
       1721         293       218                    598 13 6
1829.  1961                                          858 2 6
1830.  1905         291       3 2 7|                 945 17 4
       1953         302       3 4 6|                 920 10 2
1831.  2075
       1967         327       333                    796 3 5
1832.               320       2 12 9                 725 18 7
                              243                    590 10 0
1»3.
                               1 16 11
1834.
124 BRITISH ASSOCIATION. -- 1835.

   The employments of the prisoners are specified ; the medical at
tendance exemplified ; and the author adds his decided testimony to
the advantages resulting from the introduction of solitary confine

ment.

On the Causes   which affect the  Proportions between   the Numbers     of
   Accusations  and Convictions   in the Metropolitan  District, and    on

the Effects whick      well-managed Houses    of Correction     have in re
pressing Crime.
                       By E. Hals well.

On  t/u    Punishment  of  Death in Prussia,  Norway,  and Brunswick.

                                By Mr. Fox.

Extract of a letter received by the Committee of the Capital Punish
                 ment Society, dated Berlin, March 10, 1835.

           The entire Number of Executions in each Year.

    Year.  Anon.            " Voluntary       Murder.           Total.

                           Manslaughter."

1818.       1              3                  59
1819.                      2                  68
           --

1820.      --                     --                    13      13
1821.      --
1822.      --                             1              14     14
1823.                                                      4      5
1824.                                 4
                                      2                    6    10
                                                         10     12
                           In five years for  murder.. . .47

1825.      --                             1                  3   4
1826.      --                                              4     5
1827.      --                             1                      7
1828.      --                                              5    12
1829.                                 2                  10
                                      2                           5
                                                           4
                                          1   murder. . . .26

                           In five years for

r-1830.         ,                             4                 4'

1831.                      18                                   9
                                                                2
's1832.    --               2                     2             2
                                                                2
1833.      ---             --                 12
1834.
                           In five years for murder. . . .16

                1 22                          100               123

   * In the last three years 22 were sentenced to death, for murder, of whom
only 4 were executed, [the remainder being imprisoned at hard labour.]
                  TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                                     125

         Proportions of Convictions and Executions.

                                MURDER.

5 years ending    1824, capitally  convicted,  69, executed  --47 : or T%%.
5 years           1829,                        SO,           26:-- orvw
5 years                                        43            16:-- or TW
                  1834,

IfHere there is a diminution of executions in each of the two last
periods, and at the same time a diminution of crime.           we compare
the two extreme periods, we find one third less crime      in  the last with
16 executions, than in the first with 47 executions.
    The mean population of Prussia
taken at 12,303,535, that being the  during     the same   period may be
                                     amount     according    to the official
census in 1826, which year falls exactly in the middle of the same
Series of years.

    On t/te Social Statistics of the Netherlands. By W. R. Greg.
   The essay, drawn up principally from the works of M. Quetelet,

has been printed by the author. The information contained in it
is classed under the heads of: 1, density of population; 2, number

of children to a marriage ; 3, education ; 4, crimes against person ;
5, crimes against property ; 6, crimes of great violence. These sub
jects are discussed in tables for the different provinces of Belgium and

Holland, and illustrated by six maps, in which the premises are shaded
and numbered in the order of their numerical relations to the above
six subjects. Comparisons are occasionally introduced between these
results and those attained in France and England.

Account  of the Normal School in     Dublin established by the  Com
         missioners of Education.      By Dr. Dickenson.

On  Cooperative Shops for tlte     purpose  Boafbsbuapgpely,inFg .RW.So.r,kmfyec.n  with-
       the Necessaries of Life.
                                   By C.

   Mr. Babbage gave an account of an instance in which such shops
were in operation from 1818 to 1832. He produced tables showing
the number of purchases, the quantities of goods sold, and the rate
of profit in every year during that period, and explained the causes
which led to the failure and abandonment of the system at the end
of the latter year.

On  t/te State    of Education  in the Deccan.  By Lieut.-Col. Sykes,

                                F.R.S.,ifC

   Statistical documents relating to the New Colony of Australia were
presented by CoL Sykes.

                                                                                           -.
 126 BRITISH ASSOCIATION. -- 1835.

    On the Extension of the Study of Physics. By Dr. D. B. Reid.
    Dr. Reid stated that the importance of a practical knowledge of
 physical science to a great number of individuals who cannot afford
 the time or means required for enabling them to attend the courses

 at present given to professional persons, led him, some years ago,

 to pay great attention to the simplifying of apparatus, and the in
 troduction of a course of chemistry. The first branch he had paid
 more especial attention to, which might be accessible to all classes
 of society. Last winter he completed his arrangements for this pur
 pose, and gave two courses, to put his system to the test of expe
 rience. In one, 100 mechanics operated at the same time on twelve
 different occasions ; and in the other, a course was given to 40 young
 persons, where the same system was adopted. In the mechanics'

 class, the students were arranged along five boards, each being pro

 vided with twenty gas-lamps, one of which was placed alternately
 on either side. Every pupil received a blowpipe, a test tube, slips
of paper on which tests were applied, and also a broad and a narrow
slip of glass, such as glaziers throw away. These slips were used
 for the same purposes as the paper, and also for solution, boiling,
 evaporation, crystallization, and filtration : the narrow slips, on the
 other hand, were employed for imitating furnace operations, heat

being applied by a common lamp or candle, assisted, where this was

necessary, by the blowpipe. The method of using the flat glass
for the above operations was illustrated by Dr. Reid, and the spe
cimens handed to the gentlemen attending the section. Experi

ments conducted in this manner were equally ceconomical and effec
tual in communicating instruction ; and the professional student
might also, in the same way, repeat again and again, at home, at

the most trifling expense, the greater number of those illustrations
which he might see in the lecture-room. Dr. Reid stated, that at an
expense varying from tl. to 51., every schoolmaster might provide
himself with an apparatus sufficient to show thousands of experi
ments on the small scale, and awaken the minds of his pupils so as
to take an interest in science*.

    · Since this system was proposed, a number of individuals in London,
Edinburgh, and Dublin have stated their intention of introducing it practi
cally both in mechanics' institutions and in schools and academics for the
instruction of young persons.

                                                 THE END.

                Printed by Richard Taylor, Red Lion Court, Fleet Street.
                                      [ 1ST ]

          INDEX I.

REPORTS ON THE STATE OF SCIENCE.

XVULES and objects of the Associa         Edinburgh Sub-committee, report ou
                                             the registration of deaths, 251.
    tion, v.
Officers and Council, viii.               Electricity, on the recent progress and
Desiderata, xiii.                             present state of, 2.
Address of Sir William Hamilton, xli.
Synopsis of sums appropriated to sci      Fallingstars,modeofobserving,xxxviii.
                                          Forbes (Prof.), desiderata noticed in
   entific objects, xl.
                                             his report on meteorology, xix.
/Epinian theories of electricity and gal  Fourier's theory of heat, 18.
    vanism, 2, 10.
                                          Geology, resolutions of the Committee
Airy (Prof.), desiderata noticed in his      for, xx vi.
   report on astronomy, xvi.
                                          Gray (W.) on the quantities of rain
Arts, resolutions of the Committee for       falling at different elevations at York,
   the, xxxii.
                                              171.
Astronomy, resolutions of the Com
   mittee for, xv.                        Hamilton's (Sir W.) address, xli.
                                          Hansteeu (Prof.), researches in mag
Aurora borealis, directions for ob
   serving the, xxxv.                         netism, 61.
                                          Harris (W. S.) on the hourly observa
Baily (F.) on the comparative mea
   surement of the Aberdeen standard         tions of the thermometer, 181.
                                          Heart, on the motions and sounds of
    scale, 91.
Barlow (Prof.), desideratum noticed in        the, 243.
                                          Heat, on the recent progress and pre
   his report on the strength of mate
   rials, xxxii.                              sent state of the theory of, 1 .
                                                  , on the conduction of, 1 7.
Chemical notation, report of the Com              , on the radiation of, 17, 1G3.
    mittee on, 207.
                                          Hodgkin (Dr.) on the effects of acrid
Chemistry, resolutions of the Commit
    tee for, xxiii.                           poisons, 211.

Christie (Prof.), desiderata noticed in   Hodgkinson (E.) on impact upon
    his report on magnetism, xxi.
                                              beams, 93.
Constants of nature and art, proposed     Hudson (Dr.) on the phenomena usu
    new work on, xxxix.
                                              ally referred to the radiation of heat,
Conybeare (Rev. W. D.), desiderata            163.
    noticed in his report on geology,
    xx viii.                              Infraorbital cavities in decrs and an
                                              telopes, on the, 208.
Coulombian theories of electricity and
    galvanism, 2, 10.                     Impact upon beams, 93.
                                          Ireland, magnetical observations in,

                                              159.

Dublin Sub-committee, report on the       Jacob (Prof.) on the infraorbital cavi
   motions and sounds of the heart,243.      ties in deers and antelopes, 208.
128 INDEX.

Jcnyns (Rev. L.), desiderata noticed          Quetelet 's (A.) mode of observing fall
   in his report on zoology, xxx.                ing stars, xxxviii.

Laplace's coefficients, 7 ; on the theory     Radiant heat, desiderata reported by
   of heat, 21.                                  Prof. Powell, xxi.

Lindley (Prof.), desiderata noticed in        Radiation of heat, 17, 163.
   his report on botany, xxxi.                Rain, on the quantities falling at dif

Lloyd (Prof.) on the direction and in            ferent elevations at York, 171.
    tensity of the terrestrial magnetic       Registration of deaths, on, 251.
   force in Ireland, 117.                     Reports on the progress of science
         , desiderata noticed in his report
    on optics, xxiii.                            already printed, list of, xiii.
                                                      undertaken to be drawn up, list
Magnetical observations made in Ire
    land, 159.                                   of, xiv.

Magnetism, on the recent progress             Ross (Capt. J. C.) on the direction and
    and present state of, 10.
         , resolutions ol the Committee for,     intensity of the terrestrial magnetic
    xx.                                          force in Ireland, 117.
         , terrestrial, 61, 117.              Roupell (Dr.) on acrid poisons, 235.

Mathematics in Belgium, on the state          Sabine (Capt E.) on the phamomena
     of, 35.                                     of terrestrial magnetism, 61.
                                                      on the direction and intensity of
Medical science, resolutions of the               the terrestrial magnetic force in Ire
    Committee for, xxxi.                         land, 117.

Meteorology, resolutions of the Com           Standard scale of Aberdeen, on the
    mittee for, xvii.                             comparative measurement of, 91.

Mineralogy, resolutions of the Com            Statistics, resolutions of the Committee,
    mittee for, xxv.                             xxxii.

Natural history, resolutions of the Com       Terrestrial magnetism, 61, 117.
    mittee for, xxviii.                       Thermometer, on the hourly observa

Newton's law of heat, 18.                        tions of the, 181.
Notation, chemical, report on, 207.           Tides, directions for observing the,

Optics, resolutions of the Committee,            xxxiii.
   xxii.                                             , resolutions of the Committee,

Phillips (Prof.) on the quantities of            xvii.
   rain falling at different elevations
   at York, 171.                              Whewell (Rev. W.) on the recent
                                                 progress and present state of efec-
Poisons, acrid, on, 211, 235.                    tricity, magnetism, and heat, 1.
                                                     , desiderata mentioned in his re
Poisson's (M.) theories of electricity,          port on electricity, magnetism, and
                                                 neat, xxii.
    galvanism, and heat, 7, 13, 27.                  , desiderata noticed in his report

Quetelet (A.) on the state of mathe               on mineralogy, xxv.
   matics in Belgium, 35.
               INDEX II.

NOTICES OF COMMUNICATIONS TO THE SECTIONS.

Absorption, on the office of iac-                              limit de Soufflet, mechanism of, 87.
                                                               Brunswick, punishment of death in,
teals, lymphatics, and veins in the
function of, 92.                                                   124.

AAcchidrosm: --atsiculpmhoic-rmosecthoypleie, ,  112.   muria  Cambrian and Silurian systems, 58.
                                                   42;         Cape Farewell, geographical position

    tic, 45 ; hydrocyanic, 45.                                 of, 66.

Adams (R.) on aneurism by anasto                               Celacea, mammary glands in the, 86.

    mosis, 99.                                                 Chabasie, optical properties of, 44.    of

--Agassiz (Prof.) on fossil fishes, 61.                        Challis (Rev. J.) on the vibrations
        on the principles of classification
   in the animal kingdom, 67.                                     a cylindrical tube, 12.
Alison (Dr.) on the vital powers in ar
                                                               Chemistry, 30.
    teries leading to inflamed parts, and
   on the cause of death in aspnyxia, 89.                      Cheverton (Mr.) on mechanical sculp
Allman (Dr.) on the mathematical re                            ture, 112.
   lations of the forms of the cells of
                                                               Chloride of soda, its use in fever, 101.

plants, 79.                                                    Circulating organs in diving animals,
                                                                   81.

Anemometer, new, 29.                                           Classification, principles of, 67.
Aneurism by anastomosis, 99.                                   Cleland (Dr.) on the Glasgow Bride

Apjohn (Prof.) on the dew-point, 27.                               well, 123.
         on the specific heats of elastic
                                                               Coal-gas, phenomena of flame from,

fluids, 30.                                                    49.

Arteries leading to inflamed parts, on                         Cold, its effects on the body, 94.
   the vital powers in, 89.
                                                               Collins (Dr.), registry kept in the Ly
Asphyxia, on the cause of death in, 90.                           ing-in Hospital of Dublin, 106.
Astronomical clock, 112.
                                                               Collision and impact, on, 107.
Attraction, electrical, 17.
Aurora borealis, on the, 17, 18.                               Coniferte, on the structure of, 73.

                                                               Connell (A.), analysis of fossil scales,

                                                               41.

Babbagc (C.) on the statistics con                             Cornwall, steam engines of, 108.        of
   tained in the Ordnance Survey of
    Templemore, 118.                                           Corrigan   (Dr.) on     the  mechanism
         on cooperative shops, 125.                                      de Soufflet,  87.
                                                                 limit
Ball (R.) on Peulacrinus Europteus                             Corrosion of metals by sea-water, 34,
   and a species of liero'e, 72.
                                                               36.
Barker (Dr. W.) on electric currents
    passing through platinum wire, 33.                         Crystallized surfaces, reflexion and re

Barker (Prof. l'\), account ..of some                          fraction from, 7.
    chemical processes, 52.
                                                               Dalton (Dr.), analysis of pyroxylin
Barometer, self-registering, 109.                                 spirit, 44.
Birds, geographical range of, 69.
Bog timber, on, 76.                                            Daubeny (Prof.) on the volatilization
                                                                  of magnesia by heat, 51 .
Botany, 67.                                                            on the action of light oil plants.
                                                                   73.
1,30 INDEX.

Davy (Prof.), experiments to prevent          Hamilton (Prof. Sir W.), new theory
    corrosion by sea-water, 34, 36.              of logologues, 7.
        on nicotin, 38.
       on Irish and Virginian tobacco,37.     Hamilton (C. W.) on a yew found in a

Davy lamp, 55, 56.                                bog, 76.
Denham (C'apt.) on the survey of the                 . notice of the nut of the Palo de

    Mersey and the Dee, 64.                       Vaca, and of the wax-tree of Guia
        on vibration of railways, 108.            na, 78.
                                              Handyside (Dr.) on the offices of lac-
Dew-point, 27, 54.                               teals, lymphatics, and veins in the
Diving animals, on the circulating or            function of absorption, 92.
                                              Harcourt (Rev. W. V.) on observations
    gans of, 81.                                  upon the dew-point, 54.
                                              Harris (W. S.)on an electrical balance,
Echinodermata, mode of preserving,                17.
    71.
                                                       on electrical attraction, 17.
Electricity, 30 ; prismatic decompo                   , new electrometer, 56.
    sition of electrical light, 11 ; attrac   Harrison (Prof.) on the entozoa found,
    tion, 17; electric currents through          in the muscles of the human subject,
    platinum wire, 33.                            84.
                                                      on bones in the hearts of certain.
Electrical balance, 17.                           animals, 85.
Electro-magnetism, on its application
                                              Hartop (Mr.) on the manufacture of
    to manufactures, 18.                         pig iron, 52.

Ettrick (Mr.) on the Davy lamp, 55.           Heart of certain animals, on the bones
                                                  in the, 85.
          on improvements in the astro
    nomical clock, mariner's compass,         Heat, radiant, 9.
    and in steam engines, 112.                Hodgkinson (E.) on impact and colli

Fever, typhus, 101.                               sion, 107.
        , use of chloride of soda in, 104.    Houston (Dr.) on the circulating or

Flame from coal-gas, phenomena of,               gans in diving animals, 81.
    49.                                                on a variety of hydatid, 83.

Floating bodies, on the motion of, 16.        Hudson (Dr. II.) on the radiation of
Fluids, on the resistance of, 16.
                                                  heat, 9.
         , elastic, specific heat of, 30.     Mutton (Dr.) on a case of deficient de
Fossil scales, analysis of, 41 ; Polypa-
                                                 velopment of the right hemisphere
    ria, 59; fishes, 61 ; trees, 63; plants,      of the brain, 99.
    63.                                       Hydatid, on a variety of, 83.
Fox (R.W.) on the absence of magnet
    ism in cast iron when in fusion, 33.      Impact and collision, on, 107.
                                              India, on wages in, 118.
Geoghegan (Prof.), method of testing          Intestinal canal, on the functions and.
    the presence of muriatic acid in hy
    drocyanic acid, 45.                           diseases of the, 105.
                                              Ireland, geological map of, 56.
Geography, 56.                                Iron, absence of magnetism in cast
Geology, 56.
                                                  iron when in fusion, 33.
Gooch (T. L.), account of a toad found               , manufacture of pig iron, 52.
    alive imbedded in a mass of new                   , peroxide of, 52.

    red sandstone, 72.                        Jacob (Dr.) on fossil Pobfparia, 59. .
Graham (Prof.) on certain compounds                     on the mammary glands in tho

    with water, 45.                                Cetacea, 86.
          on safety lamps, 56.                Johnson (Prof.) on the cause of the

Graves (Dr.) on the use of chloride of            optical properties of chabasie, 44.
    soda in fever, 104.                                analysis of single and double

Greg (W. R.) on the social statistics             iodides of gold, 45.
    of the Netherlands, 125.

Griffith (R. J.) on the geological map

    of Ireland, 56.
INDEX.                                                                         131

Kane ( Dr.) on the interference of sound,    and the effects of its condensation in
    13.                                      others, 96.
        on the salts of sulpho-methylic
    acid, 42.                                Netherlands, social statistics of, 125.
        on the protochlorides of platina     Nicol (W.), structure of Coniferce, 73.
    and tin, 44.                             Nicotin, Prof. Davy on, 38.
                                             Niven (Mr.) on the arrangement of
Kennedy (Dr.) on purulent ophthalmia,
    105.                                         plants for a botanic garden, 80.
                                             Norway, punishment of death in, 124.
Knowles (G. B.) on a case of deformity
   of the pelvis, 101.                       OBeiroe (Dr.) on the functions and
                                                diseases of the intestinal canal, 105.
Light, electrical, prismatic decompo
    sition of, 11.                           Ophthalmia, purulent, 105.
                                             Optical properties of chabasic, 44.
Litton (Dr.) on the yew at Mucruss,76.       Osborne (D».) on the effects of cold on
Logologues, new theory of, 7.
                                                the human body, and on a mode of
MacCullagh (J.) on the laws of re               measuring refrigeration, 94.

   flexion and refraction from crystal       Paper, made from turf, 47.
   lized surfaces, 7.
M'Donnell (Dr.) on the differential          Perry (Dr.) on typhus fever, 101.
    pulse, 98.                               Phillips (Prof.) on a newly discovered

M'Gauley(Rev. J.W.) on the oeconomy             tertiary deposit in Yorkshire, G2.

    and uses of magnetism, 20.               Physics, 7 ; on the study of, 126.
Magnesia, its volatilization hy heat, 5 1 .  Plants, action of light on, 73 ; mathe
Magnetism, on practical applications
                                                matical relations of the forms of the
    of, 19, 20.
        , nature of, 24.                         cells of, 79.
       , absence of in cast iron when in     Platina, protochloridc of, 44.
                                             Platinum wire, on electric currents
    fusion, 33.
                                             passing through, 33.
Mallet (R.) on the application of elec
                                             Polariscope, simple, 112.
    tro-magnetism to manufactures, 18.       Polarization of light, 8, 112.
        on bleaching turf for the manu       Powell (Prof.) on recent discoveries

    facture of paper, 47.                       relative to radiant heat, 9.
          on phtenomena of flame from        Pritchard (A.), apparatus for illustra

    coal-gas, 49.                               ting the polarization of light, 1 12.
Mammary glands in the Cetacea, 86.           Prussia, punishment of death in, 124.
Manchester, statistics of, 1 19.
                                             Pulse, on the differentia1, 98.
Marshall (Dr.) on the zoology of Rath-
    lin, 68.                                 Pyroxylic spirit, on a fluid obtained in-

Mathematics, 7.                              ,                            40.
Maundsell (Dr.) on the statistics of the                             it,
                                             manufacturing
    Dublin Foundling Hospital, 113.
Mayne (Rev. C.) on preserving Echi-          analysis of, 44.

    nodermata, 71 .                          7. 7.Radiant heat, 9.
Mechanical science, 107.                     Railways, on vibration of, 108.
Medical science, 81.                         Reflexion,                        a
Mersey and Dee, survey of, 64.               Refraction,                                   1
Microscope, achromatic, 112.                 Refrigeration, mode of measuring, 94.
                                             Reid (Dr.) on the construction of pub                1
Moore (Mr.) on corroded leaden pipe,
                                                lic buildings in reference to sound,
     55.                                         14.

Murchison (R. I.) on the Silurian sy                 on the study of physics, 26.
                                             Resistance, on the solid of least, 107.
    stem of rocks, 59.
Muriatic acid, method of testing its         Roberts (Mr.) on a machine which

    presence in hydrocyanic acid, 45.            renders objects visible while revolv
                                                ing 200,000 times in minute, 13.
Murray (Sir J.) on the influence of ar
                                             Ross (Sir J.) on the aurora borealis,
    tificial rarefaction in some diseases,        18.

                                                                                                     ..
132 INDEX.

Russell (J. S.) on the motion of float                         Sykes (Lt.-Col.), statistics of Australia,
                                                                   125.
   ing bodies, 16.
        on the solid of least resistance,                      Taylor (J.) on the duty of steam-en
                                                                  gines in Cornwall, 108.
   J 07.
                                                               Thermometers, measurementofheights
Safety lamp, 55, 56.                                               by, 25.

Saunderson (Mr.) on yew trees, 76.                             Toad found imbedded in a mass of new
Scanlan (M.) on a fluid obtained in
   manufacturing pyroxylic spirit, 40.                             red sandstone, 72.
                                                               Tobacco, Irish and Virginian, compa
SchSioeldaetium(Dr.t)uboenrotshuem,OxCat/vuadttulblae,rotAa,-
mole, &c., 77.                                                     rative value of, 37.
                                                               Torsion balance, 18.
Sculpture, production of busts, &c. by
                                                               Trail (Dr.) on the geology of Spain,
machinery, 112.
                                                                   61.
Sedgwick (Prof.) on the Silurian and
    Cambrian systems, 59.                                      Typhus fever, on, 101.

Silurian system of rocks, on the, 59.                          Verschoyle (Archdeacon) on the trap
                                                                  dykes of Mayo and Sligo, 59.
Smith (J.) on some fossil trees, 63.
Soda, chloride of, its use in fever, 104.                      Vibrations of a cylindrical tube, 12.
                                                               Vignoles (Archdeacon) on bog timber,
Solid of least resistance, on the, 107.
                                                                   76.
Sound, interference of, 13.

, experiments on, 14.                                          Water, on certain compounds with, 45.
                                                               West (Dr.) on the geographical posi
Spain, on the geology of, 61.
                                                                  tion of Cape Farewell, 66.
Speech, by mechanical means, 14.                                       on the formation of wood, 75.

Statistics, 113.

--Steam.engines of Cornwall, 108.                              Wheatstone (Prof.) on electrical light,

    -- , on improvements in, 113.                              11.
Stevcl ly (Prof.), description of a self-
                                                                   on the imitation of the human
registering barometer, 109.

Stokes (Dr.) on the effects of accumu                              speech, 14.
   lations of liquids or of air within the                     Whewell (Rev. W.) on a new amino-
cavity of the thorax, 98.
Stotherd (Lieut.) on a patch of granite                           meter, 29.
   in Cavan, 58.
                                                               on the application of physical

Sulpho-methylic acid, salts of, 42.                                science to geology, 65.     fossil
                                                               Williams (Rev. D.) on some
Sykes (Lt.-Col.) on the measurement
   of heights, 25.                                                 plants, 63.
                                                               Wood, on the formation of, 75.
· on the geographical range of
                                                               Zinc, its protection of other metals
----birdosn,  69.    in  India,  118.                              from corrosion, 36.
              wages
                                                               Zoology, 67.
on education in the Deccan, 125.

                         KND OK THE FOURTH VOLUME.

                     Trinted by Richard Taylor, Red Lion ( rmrt, Fleet Street.
BRITISH ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT
                             OF SCIENCE.

                                          Price 13*. Cxi. in boards,

   THE Second Edition of the REPORT op the FIRST and SECOND
MEETINGS of the BRITISH ASSOCIATION.
ooPPEnnrosoqwCftT..hoe,henlelWot,rneRmhonetentohcwse-etEehnlT:leet--li,cdPpteoPrrrosniercgosi;retft--eh.ynsetsAP;SrPi--rotrayaefn.tsS,deeiFrnoooPtnrfrDbeetSashtstvhe,eaeitndeoStncPSiBoretotrfahngetecrweMeesPsitnorseoeefrsf,reGoaRnfeltoaooAgdnlsSoyiattg;ratnoyht--tene:oH--oRmePferDayvoMtr.g;.e;r----WetPesr.sJoPi.crrDohoWo.lafo.fr.CgdCOoy'Lusnpu;my--tbbrimecbevsPaoiirrnec;eo--wgk,f,,.

of Philological and Physical Researches.
   Together with Papers on Mathematics, Optics, Acoustics, Magnetism, Elec

tricity, Chemistry, Meteorology, Geography, Geology, Zoology, Anatomy,
Physiology, Botany, and the Arts ; and an Exposition of the Object and Plan
of the Association, &c.

                                           Price 12s. in boards,

   REPORT of the THIRD MEETING of the BRITISH ASSOCIA
TION, held at Cambridge in 1833.
ostVReinoeerliCinoantgnhlossyein;e;--t,A--oenofnDnaMttlrhsyrH.e.:tyi--LcdNSianr.ePladrrHuvoleTlc.oiyhecuC,eseshdoiroaSrniysnysgstsaittoeehf,BmeoroHafPn;nyh--ttcdhihlheoreMosorsoMM.tfpaaeEhPtgeinyecntgtsieenoitnrgfaisen;BBmed--oartiroHnalMofgnywr,dty.h,;rPeoJ--aodorEhnytDannrIrat.t.hhm;TeH--ai;ec--ySnsRltorerRy;erv--e,,n.vg.oMGotnhn.Jr..PthMeCGoeaifhecnoPaoeMrchlrglkiayaes,l,

on certain Branches of Analysis.
    Together with Papers on Mathematics and Physics, Philosophical Instruments

and Mechanical Arts, Natural History, Anatomy, Physiology, and History of
Science.

                                   Price 15*. in boards,

  REPORT of the FOURTH MEETING of the BRITISH ASSOCIA
TION, held at Edinburgh in 1834.

II.RHPreeoCvnf.o.rynLL,tle.onoyJntdes,ntyh:o--nens,HPLha.oywnDssi.cZaooRlfoolOoCggeopyrntsitc,a;sg--;ioo--nRn eMtv;h--r.e.
                                            Geology of North America ;-- Dr.                                                 C.
                                            JP.roCf.haClllaisr,k,          Animal
                                                                     on  Capillary  Physiology                              ;;----
                                                                   on               Attraction

                                            G. Rennie, on Hydraulics, Part
Together with the Transactions of the Sections, and Recommendations of

the Association and its Committees.

LITHOGRAPHED SIGNATURES of the MEMBERS who met at
Cambridge in 1833, with the Proceedings of the Public Meetings.
                                                                                    4to.

Price 4*. (To Members 3».)

N.B. Members of the Association are entitled to purchase from the Local
                                            Office of  Mr. R.
III.Treasurers, at the Depots, or  at  the  following              Taylor,    Printer, Red Lion
                                   at  the             prices      : Vol. I.
Court, Fleet Street, London,                                                  9». ; Vol. II. 8*. ;
Vol.
      10*.

            John Murray, Albemarle Street.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   S
    '.'                 >.iw-(..
         -              it.Si.,·

                       '

2V
               LIST OF MEMBERS

        BRITISH ASSOCIATION

                                                    FOR THE

            ADVANCEMENT OF SCIENCE.

             LIFE MEMBERS.

        HIS ROYAL HIGHNESS THE DUKE OF SUSSEX,

                           President of the Royal Society.

                                                     Arnott, G. A. Walker, Kinross. shire.
                                                     Arrow, John   JJa.,mTeus,torEdoifnCbhurrigsht . College,
Abbatt, Richard, Epping, Essex.                      Ash, Rev. E.
Abbot, Joseph, 16, Gloucester Street,
                                                     Cambridge.
   Dublin.                                           Ashhurst, Rev. Dr. T. H., All- Souls'
Abercrombie, John, M.D., Edinburgh.
Acland, Sir T. D., Bart., Killerton,                 College, Oxford.
                                                     Aspland, Rev. Robert, Hackney.
   Devon.                                            AAutkldinjos,onJ,.,JaLmoensd,onY.ork.
Adam, Walter, M.D., Edinburgh.
Adamson, John, Newcastle-upon-Tyne.                                         B.
Adare, Lord  JV.,iscBoaubnrta,haDmu,bliCna. mbridge
Adeane, H.                                           Babbage, Charles, F.R.SS.L. andE.,"fcu-

shire.                                               i,casian Professor of Mathematics in the
Airy, G. B., Astronomer Royal, Green
                                                     University of Cambridge,               Dorset

wich.                                                   Street, London.
Alderson, James, Hull.                               Babington, C.C., M.A., St. John's Col
Alexander, Edward N., F.S.A., Secre-
                                                     lege, Cambridge.
retary of the Literary and Philosophi                Bagot, Thomas  NJ..,,  County of Gal way.
   cal Society, Halifax.                             Baldwin, Rev.          M.A., Christ's Col
Alexander, Robert, F.R.S., Cadogan
                                                        lege, Cambridge.
   Place.                                            Ball, John, 85, Stephen's Green South,
Allen, William, Balbriggan, Ireland.                    Dublin.
Allis, Thomas, York.
                                                     Ball, Robert, M.R.I.A., Mountjoy
Allman, Professor William, Dublin.
Apjohn, James, M.D., Professor R.C.S.,                  Square, Dublin.
                                                     Barclay, Charles, M.P., Bury Hill, Dork

Dublin.                                              ing.
                                           LIFE MEMBERS.

Barker, Francis, M.D., 22, Baggot Street,                 Brabant, Robert H., M.D., Devizes.
                                                          Bi*dy, Daniel F., 58, Old Dominick
   Dublin.                                                 ·Street, Dublin.
Barker, Richard, M.D., M.R.D.S., 123,
                                                          Bridstock, W. P., F.G.S., Stoke Hill,
Great Britain Street, Dublin.
Barlow, Edward, Bristol.
Barnes, Rev. Joseph William, M.A.,                           Guildford.
Fellow of Trinity College, Cambridge.                     Brisbane, SirThos.M., K.C.B..F.R.SS.
Baron, John, M.D., F.R.S., Gloucester.
BBaayylledyo,n,RJeovh.nJ,.,  York.                           L. ami E., Makerstown, Kelso.
                             M.A.,  Eton.                 Brooke, Henry James, F.R.S. F.G.S.,

Beale, Samuel, Birmingham.                                   Mawbey Place, South Lambeth.
Beamish, Richard, Sans Souci, Cork.                       Brown, G. B., Halifax.
Beaufoy, Henry, F.R.S., South Lam
                                                          Brown, Robert, D.C.L., F.R.SS. L. and
                                                             E., V.P.L.S., M.R.I.A., 17, Dean

    beth.                                                    Street, Soho.
                                                          Bruce, Halliday, M.R.D.S., 37, Dame
Belcombe, Henry S., M.D., York.
Belgrave, Rev. Thomas, M.A., North                           Street, Dublin.

   Kilworth, Leicester.                                   Brunei, I. K., F.R.S., 53, Parliament
Bell, Thomas, F.R.S. F.L.S., 17," New
                                                          Street.
                                                                  James, M.A., Belfast.
   Broad Street, London.                                  Bryce,  Rev. R. J., LL.D., Principal               of
Bell, William, Edinburgh.                                 Bryce,
Bergin, Thomas F., 5, Westland Row,                          the Academy, Belfast.
                                                          Buckland, Rev. William, D.D., F.R.S.
                                                          V.P.G.S.,Canon of Christ Church, Pro
   Dublin.
                                                              fessor  RoefvG. eRo. loJ.g,yM, .feAe..,,  Oxford.
Birks, J. R., Trinity College, Cambridge.                 Bunch,                                        Fellow of Em

Black, James, M.D., Bolton, Lancashire.                      manuel College, Cambridge.
Blackburn, Charles, A.B., 40, Kensing                     Rurchell, William John, F.L.S., Fulhani.
                                                          Burke, Francis, 5, Upper Rutland Street,
   ton Square.
Blackburne, Rev. John, Attercliffe, Shef

   field.                                                    Dublin.
Blackburne, Rt. Hon. Francis, Leinster                    Burn, William, F.R.S., Edinburgh.
                                                          Buxton, Edward North, 54, Devonshire
   Street, Dublin.
Blackburne, Bewick, Clapham Common.                       Street, Portland Place.
Blackwall, John, F.L.S., Crumpsall Hall,

    Manchester.                                                       C.
Bland, Rev. Miles, D.D., F.R.S.. &c.,
                                                          Cadell, Robert, Edinburgh.
Ramsgate.    William,         York.                       Campbell, Sir Hugh Hume Purves, Bart.,
Blanshard,                   Fellow
Blick, Rev.  C, B.D.,                     of St.  John's  Marchmont House, Greenlaw, Ber
                                                          wick, and Carlton Club.
   College, Cambridge.                                    Campbell, James, Honourable East India
Bliss, Rev. Dr., Registrar of the Univer

   sity of Oxford.                                           Company's Service, Edinburgh.
Blood, Bindon, F.R.S.E., Edinburgh.                       Canterbury, His Grace the Archbishop
Blare, Edward, F.S.A., 62, Welbeck
                                                             of, Lambeth Palace.
   Street, London.                  Dundee.               Cape, Rev. Jos., M.A., Fellow of Clare
Boase, C. W., M.G.S.C,              Badger Hall,
Boddington, Benjamin,                                        Hall, Cambridge.
                                                          Carmichael, Hugh, 18, Hume Street,
                                                          Dublin.
Salop.                                                    Carne, Joseph, F.R.S. F.G.S., &c., Pen
BBoonddle,y,HTehnorymaJs.,     Brighton.
                             H., M.D.,    Cambridge.          zance.

Bond, Walter M.. Armagh.                                  Carpenter, Rev. Lant, LL.D., Bristol.
Botfield, Beriah, Norton Hall, Daventry.                  Cartmall, James, Corpus Christi Col
Botfield, Thomas, F.R.S. F.G.S., Hopton
   Court, Bewdley.                                            lege,    Cambridge.                            Rutland
Bowsted, Rev. James, M.A., Fellow of                      Ca3h,                                         34,
                                                                      George, M.R.I.A.,
                                                             Square West, Dublin.
   Corpus Christi College, Cambridge.                     Cattle, Robert, York.
Boyle, Alexander, M.R.D.S., 35, College                   Cayley, Sir George, Bart., Brompton,
                                                          Malton.
   Green, Dublin.
                               LIFE MEMBERS.                                                 3

Cayley, Digby, Brompton.                     Cotton, William, Walwood House, Ley-
Cayley, Edward S., Wydale.
                                                 tonstone.                                               .
Challis, Rev. James, Papworth St Ever-
                                             Cotton, W. C, Jun., Christ Church, Ox
   atd, Cambridge.                              ford.
Chalmers, Rev. Thomas, D.D., Professor       Coulter, Thomas, M.D., M.R.I.A., 28,

   of Divinity, Edinburgh.                   Trinity College, Dublin.
Chantrey, Sir Francis, D.C.L., R.A.,         Courtney, Richard, 117, Baggot Street,
                                                Dublin.
   F.R.S. F.G.S., Pimlico.
Chevaliier, Rev. T., B.D., New Town,         Craig, J. T. Gibson, Edinburgh.

   Cambridge.                                Crampton, Hon. Judge, 1, Merrion
Christie, S. H., M.A., F.R.S., Professor
                                                Square, Dublin.           M.D.,  M.R.I.A.,   39,
   of Mathematics, Woolwich.                 Crampton, John,
Christison, Robert, M.D.,F.R.S.E., Pro       Kildare Street, Dublin.
                                             Craven, Robert, Hull.
   fessor of Materia Medica, Edinburgh.      Creyke, Rev. Stephen, M.A. York.                of
Clark, Francis, Birmingham.                  Croft, Rev. John, M.A., Fellow
Clark, William, M.D., Professor of Ana

   tomy, Cambridge.                          CroCkherris,t'sChCaorllleesge,P.C, amMb.rDid.,ge.M.R.I.A.,
Clark, Courtney R., Ringsend.
Clarke, James, M.D., F.R.S., George          Merrion Square, Dublin.
                                             Crompton, Joseph, Edgbaston, Birming
   Street, Hanover Square.                      ham.
Clarke, Thomas, 123, Baggot Street,
   Dublin.                                   Crook, W. H., LL.D., 40, Gloucester
Clarkson,   Rev. J., B.A.,   Cambridge.      Place, New Road.

Clendining, Alexander, West Port, Ire        Croome, Rev. John, Bourton-on-the-

   land.      C.  C,  B.D.,  Archdeacon  of     Water.
Clerke, Rev.                                 Crosthwaite, Leland, M.R.D.S., 63,

   Oxford.                                      Fleet Street, Dublin.
Cloncurry, Right Hon. Lord, M.R.D.S.,        Cubitt, William, M.R.I.A., London.
                                             Cusack, James William, M.D., M.R.I.A.,
   Maritimo.
Clough, Rev. A. B., B.D. Jesus College,      3, Kildare Street, Dublin.

   Oxford.                                                                D.
Colby, Colonel T. F., Tower.
Collins, Robert, M.D., M.R.D.S., 2,          D'Aguilar, Colonel George, Royal Ho

   Merrion Square North, Dublin.             spital, Dublin.
Collins, Stephen, Merrion Square, Dub        Dalmahoy, James, Honourable East In
                                             dia Company's Service.
   lin.                                      DDaalltmoenn, y,ReLvo.rd,J.  Dalmeny Park.
Collins, John Vicars, M.R.D.S., 10,                                        E., M.A., Fellow

Denzille Street, Dublin.                                                                     of
Colvile, Sir C. H.,Duffield House,Derby.
                                                Queen's College,           Cambridge.
Combe, George, Edinburgh.                    Dalton, Edward,                              Dun
Counell, Arthur, F.R.S.E., Edinburgh.                                     LL.D., F.S.A.,
Connell, Archibald, Edinburgh.
Convbeare, Rev. W. D., M.A., F.R.S.          kirk House, near Minchinhampton.
                                             Daubeny, Charles G. B., M.D., F.R.S.
V.'P.G.S., Visitor of Bristol College,          F.L.S. F.G.S., Professor of Chemistry,

   Axminster, Devon.                            Oxford.                                      St
                                             Davies, Birt, M.D., Birmingham.
Cooke, Rev. G. L., B.D., Sedleian Pro        Davis, Charles, M.D., M.R.I.A.,

   fessor, Oxford.                              Anne Street, Dublin.
Cooke, Rev. T. L., M.A., Magdalen Col        Deck, Isaiah, Chemist, Cambridge.
                                             De la Beche, H. T..F.R.S.F.L.S.F.G.S.,
   lege, Oxford.
Cooke, Howard, M. D., 71, Blessington           London.
                                             Denison, Lieutenant, R. E., Chatham.
   Street, Dublin.                           Dickenson, John, 67, Stephen's Green.

Cooper, Joseph, Queen's College, Cam

    bridge.                                     Dublin.                       Catherine Street,
                                             Dilke, Wentworth,
Corry, Rev. Robert, M.A., Fellow of Em

   manuel College, Cambridge.                Strand.                      a2
Cotter, John, Cork.
                               LIFE MEMBERS.

D'Olier, Isaac, LL.D., M.R I.A., 18,                  Evanson, R. T., M.D., M.R.I.A.,      36,
                                                         Dawson Street, Dublin.
   Baggot Street, Dublin.
                                                      Eyre, Rev. C. W., Charlton, Notts.
D'Olier, Isaac M., M.R.I.A., Bank of
   Ireland.
Dollond, George, F.R.S., St. Paul's                                     F.

Churchyard.                                           Fairbairne, William, Manchester.
Donkin, Thomas, York.                                 Fannin, John, Dublin.
Douglas, James, Cavers, Roxburgs.                     Fannin, Robert, M.R.D.S., 10, Harring-
Dowdall, Hamilton, Belmont, Dublin.
Drake, Rev. James, Kirkthorpe, Wake                      Street, Dublin.
field.                                                Faraday, Michael, D.C.L., F.R.S., Royal
                               R.N., London.
Drinkwater,  Capt. C. R.,      Temple.                   Institution.
Drinkwater,                     Blair Drum-           Fawcett, Henry E., M.A., Inner Temple.
Drummond,    J.RE.,HMom.Ae.,,                         Fearon, John P., F.G.S., Inner Temple.
                                                      Fellows, Charles, 30, Russell Square.
mond.                                                 Ferguson, Robert, F.R.S.E., Raith, Fife.
Drummond, Lieut. Thomas, F.R.A.S.,                    Ferrall, James M...M.R.I.A., 38, Rutland

   Dublin.                                               Square, Dublin.
Dugard, Thomas, M.D., Shrewsbury.                     Ferrier, James, F.RD.S., William
Duncan, James, Farnham House, Fin-
                                                      Park, Co. Dublin.
                                                      Ferrier, Alexander James, William Street,
glass.
Duncan, James F., 37, Marlhorough
    Street, Dublin.                                   Dublin.
                                                      Field, John W., Heaton Hall, Bradford.
Dundas, Major-general Robert, Arling                  Fielding, George, Hull.
   ton Street.                                        Fielding, G. H., Hull.
                                                      Finch, Charles, Jun., Cambridge.
Dunnington, Rev. J., B.A., St. John's                          James,
                                                                        Newcastle.
. College, Cambridge.                                 Finlay,  Rev. J.  H., M.A., F.G.S.,  Kirby
Dury, Rev. Theodore, Keighley, York.                  Fisher,
Dwyer, Thomas, A.M., Corpus Christi
. College, Cambridge.                                    Lorisdale.
                                                      Fitzwilliam, the Right Hon. Earl, D.C.L.,
                           E.
                                                         F.R.S., President of the Yorkshire Phi
Earoshaw, Samuel, B.A., St. John's                       losophical Society, Milton.
                                                      Fitzwilliam, Hon. G. W., Milton.
EbdCeonll,egRee,v.CaJ.mCbr,idMge.A. ., Master of Ips  Fletcher, William, LL.D., 26, Mcrrion

   wich Grammar School.                               Square, Dublin.
Edwards, James, Downing College, Cam                  Flood, Charles James, Lower Mount
                                                         Street, Dublin.
    bridge.                                           Flower, Rev. William, Jun., York.

Edwards, John, Halifax.                               Forbes, Charles, Edinburgh.
Egerton, Sir Philip de Malpas Grey,                   Forbes,  JG.eDor.g,e,F.RF..SRS.S. .,L.EadnindbEu.r,ghF..G.S.,
                                                      Forbes,
   Bart., F.R.S. F.G.S., Oulton Park,
    Cheshire.                                         Professor of Natural Philosophy, Edin
Ellice, Alexander, B.A, Caius College,
· Cambridge.                                             burgh.
Ellis, Richard, 12, Fitzwilliam Street,               Forbes, John, M.D., F.R.S., Chichester.
   Dublin.                                            Forbes, Sir John, Bart., Edinburgh.
Ellis, Rev. Robert, M.A., York.                       Forshall, Rev. Josiah, M.A., F.R.S. &c.,
Ellis, T. F., M.A., 15, Bedford Place.                British Museum.
Empson.William.M.A., Professor of Law,                Foster, H. S., Brooklands, Cambridge.
· E. I. College, Haileybury, Temple.                  Foster, Richard, Brooklands, Cambridge.
English, Henry, F.G.S., 37, New Broad                 Foster, John, B.A., Clapham.
                                                      Foulger, Rev. William, Leiston, Norfolk.
    Street.                                           Foulgcr, William, Norwich.
                                                      Fowler, Robert, 19, Merrion Square,
Estcourt, T. G. B.,M.P.,D.C.L.,F.S.A.,
                                                         Dublin.
    Estcourt, Gloucestershire.
                                                      Fox, George T..F.L.S. F.G.S., Durham.
Estcourt, W. J., Balliol College, Oxford.             Franks, Robert, M.R.D.S., 152, Leeson

Ettrick, William, Sunderland, Durham.                 Street, Dublin.
                                LIFE MEMBERS.

                  G.                                               Grooby, Rev. James, B.A., F.R.S.,
                                                                       Swindon, Wiltshire.
Galloway, S. H., Laibach, Austria.
Garnons, Rev. W. L. P., F.L.S., Sidney                             Gwynne, Colonel A. G., F.R.S.E.,
                                                                       Aberayron, Cardiganshire.
    College, Cambridge.
Gibson, Edward, Hull.                                                                        H.
Gilbert, Davies G., D.C.L., F.R.S. and
                                                                   Haggitt, Rev. G., Bury St. Edmunds.
   F.G.S., Eastbourne.                                             Hailstone, Samuel, F.G.S., Bradford.
Gilbert, Rev. A. T., D.D., Principal of                            Halford, Sir Henry, Bart., M.D..D.C.L.,
    Brazennose College, Oxford.
Gilbertson, William, Preston.                                         F.R.S., President of the Royal College
Gilby, Rev. W. R., Beverley.                                           of Physicians, Curzon Street.
Gilby, W. H., M.D.. Clifton.                                       Hallam, Henry, M.A., F.R.S. V.P.S.A.,
Gillies, John, M.D., Edinburgh.                                        67, Wimpole Street.
Godby, Augustus, General Post Office,                              Halswell, Edmund, M.A., M.R.I.A.,
    Dublin.                                                            Gore Lodge, Brompton.
Goff, William, Street House, Glouces                               Hamilton, Sir W. R., B.A., M.R.I.A.,
                                                                      Astronomer Royal of Ireland, Dublin.
    tershire.                                                      Hamilton, W. R.,' F.R.S. V.P.G.S., 66,
Goldie, George, M.D., York.                                            South Audley Street, London.
Goldsmid, Francis Henry, 1, New                                    Harcourt, Rev. William Vernon, F.R.S.,
                                                                      F.G.S., Wheldrake, York.
    Square, Lincoln's Inn.                                         Harcourt, George, M.P., Nuneham, Ox
Gotch, Thomas H., Kettering.                                          fordshire.
                                                                   Harcourt, Rev. C. G. Vernon, M.A.
GGrraahcea,mC, aRpetva.inJ.,P.D, .DR..,NM.,asLtoenrodfoCnh.rist's      Rothbury, Northumberland.
                                                                   Harcourt, Egerton Vernon, Bishop-
    College, Cambridge.                                               thorpe, York.
Graham, Thomas, F.R.S. E., Glasgow.
Graham, R., M.D., Professor of Botany,                             J.Hare, Samuel, 47, Dorset Street, Dublin.

    Edinburgh.                                                     Harford, S., Bristol.
Grantham, Rev. George, B.D., Magdalen                              Harris, Hon. Charles, Oriel College, Ox

    College, Oxford,                                                  ford.
Granville, A. B., M.D., F.R.S. F.G.S.,
                                                                   Harrison, Robert, M.D., M.R.I.A., 1,
    16, Grafton Street.
Grasswell, A. N., Heme Hill.                                           Hume Street, Dublin.
Gray, Jonathan, Vice President of the                              Hartstonge, Major R.Weld, 15, Moles-
   Yorkshire Philosophical Society, York.
                                                                      worth Street, Dublin.
Gray, William, Jun., Secretary to the                              Hasted, Rev. H., M.A., F.R.S., Bury
   Yorkshire Philosophical Society, York.
                                                                       St. Edmunds.
Gray, Rev. Walker, M.A., Henbury,                                  Hatfield, William, M.A., Newton K vme,
    near Bristol.
                                                                      Tadcaster.
Green, Joseph H., F.R.S.F.G.S., Profes                             Haughton, James, F.R.D.S., 34, Eccles
   sor of Anatomy, to the Royal Academy,
    Lincoln's Inn Fields.                                              Street, Dublin.
                                                                   Haughton, William, 28, City Quay,
Greenaway, Edward, 9, River Terrace,
                                                                      Dublin.
    Islington.                                                     Hawkins, John Heywood, M.P., F.R.S.,
Greenock, Major-gen. Lord, Edinburgh.
Gregg, T. H., 20, Grafton Street East,                                 Athenaeum.

   Fitzroy  Square.     LL.D.,  Waterford.                         Hawkins, J. J., Parson's Vale, Hamp-
Gresham,
            Rev. John,                                                stead Road.
Gresham, Thomas M., Sackville Street,                              Hay, Sir John, Bart, F.R.S.E., Edin

   Dublin.                                                            burgh.
Greswell, Rev. Richard, Worcester Col
                                                                   Hayward, W. W., Cambridge.
   lege, Oxford.  M.D.,  Edinburgh.
Greville, R. K.,                                                   Henn, Richard, 22, Merrion Square,
Griffith, Richard John, F.G.S., Dublin.                               Dublin.
Griffiths, John, B. A., Fellow of Wadham
                                                                   Henry, Charles, M.D., Manchester.
College, Oxford.                                                   Henry, William, M.D., F.R.S., Man

                                                                       chester.
6 LIFE MEMBERS.

Henslow, Rev. J. S.f M.A., F.L.S. and                Hutton, Thomas, M.R.D.S ., 14, Sum
                                                        mer Hill, Dublin.
   G.S., Professor of Botany, Cambridge.
Herschel, Sir John F. W., F.R.S. F.G.S.              Hutton, William, Newcastle-upon-Tyne.
Hey, Richard, York.                                  Hutton, Daniel, 6, Lower Dominick
Hey, John, Curator of the Literary and
                                                         Street, Dublin.

   Philosophical Society, Leeds.                                         I.
Heywood, Benjamin, Claremont, Man

chester.                                             Jackson,  G.V., M.  AL.L.C.Dur.r,aPmroorfees, soMr,aySot..
                                                     Jackson,  Thomas,
Hey wood, James, Trinity College, Cam

    bridge.                                          Andrew's.
                                                     Jacob, Arthur, M.D., 23, Ely Place,
Hibbert, Samuel, M.D., F.R.S.E. F.G.S.,

   Edinburgh.                                        Dublin.
Hildysrd, James,B.A.,Fellow of Christ's              James, Sir John K., 9, Cavendish Row,

   College, Cambridge.                               Dublin.
Hill, Edward, B.A., Christ Church, Ox                Jarrett, Rev. Professor, Cambridge.
                                                     Jebb, Rev. John, 41, Rutland Square,
ford.
Hill, Rowland, 2, Burton Crescent.
Hill, T. W., Bruce Castle.                           Dublin.
                                                     Jeffreys, Rev. H., B.D., Fellow of St.
Hoare, J. Gurney, Hampstead.                          . John's College, Cambridge.
Hodgkinson, Eaton, Memb. of the Phil.
Soc., Manchester.                                    Jemmett, Matthew, Surgeon, 54, Marl
                                                        borough Street, Dublin.
Holditch, Rev.  HR.e,v.CNam. Jb.r,idBgoel.don,  Dur  Jenkyns, Rev. Henry, MJV., Oriel Col
Holiingsworth,
                                                        lege, Oxford.
    ham.                                             Jenyns, Rev. Leonard, M.A., F.R.S.,
                                                     Swaffham, Bulbeck.
Holme, Edward, M.D., F.L.S., Man

    chester.                                         Jerrard, Rev. Dr., Fellow of Caius Col

Holt, Henry, Notton, near Wakefield.                 lege, Cambridge, Principal of Bristol
Hone, Joseph, M.R.D.S., 47, Harcourt
                                                         College.
   Street, Dublin.                                   Inglis, John, Redhall.
Hone, Nathaniel, M.R.D.S., 53, Har                   Inglis, Sir R. H., Bart., M.P., D.C.L.,
   court Street, Dublin.
                                                        F.R.S., 7, Bedford Square.
Hope, John, Dean of Faculty, Edin                    Johnson, P., F.G.S., 19, Hatton Garden.

burgh.                                               Johnston, Jas. W. F., M.A., Professor
Hope, Thomas Charles, M.D., F.R.S.
   V.P.R.S.E., Edinburgh.                                of Chemistry, Durham.
Hopkins, William, Cambridge.
Hopkinson, William, Stamford.                        Johnstone, Sir John V. B., Bart., M.A.,
                                                     F.R.S. E., Pres. Scarborough Philoso
                                                        phical Society, Hackness, Scarborough
Horsfall,  Charles,  Everton,   Liverpool.           Jollie, Walter, Edinburgh.
Hotham,               M.A.,    Trinity Col           Joy, Right Hon. Henry, Lord Chief
           Rev. C,

lege, Oxford.                                        Baron.
Hovell, Thomas, Cambridge.
Howell, John, M.D., F.R.S.E., Deputy                 Joy, Wm. B., 2, Mountjoy Square South,
                                                     Dublin.
Inspector General, Clifton, near Bris                Joy, John H., Dublin.
tol.                                                 Irvin, Rev. Alexander, M.A., Cullens-
Hudson, Mr., Oxford.
Hudson, James, at Mr. Beaufoy's, South               wood.

   Lambeth.                                                              K.

Hudson, Henry, M.D., M.R.I.A., 24,                   Kane, R. J., M.R.I.A., 23, Lower
Stephen's Green North, Dublin.
Hunter, Adam, M.D., Edinburgh.                          Gloucester  SJt.r,eeDt,.DD.,ubAlirnd.trea.
Hussey, Rev. Robert, M.A., Christ                    Kenedy, Rev.
Church, Oxford.                                      Kennedy, John, Manchester.
                                                     Kenrick, Rev. Geo., Hampstead.
Hutchinson, James, Leith.                            Kenrick, Rev. John, M.A., York.
Hutton, Edward, M.D., M.U.I. A.,                33,  Kenrick, Samuel, West Bromwich, near

   Summer Hill, Dublin.                              Birmingham.
Hutton, Robert, F.G.8., Putney.
                                             LIFE MEMBERS.

Kidd, John, M.D., Regius Professor of                     Lucas, Edward, Castle Hayne.
KinMgesdtoicni,neA, rO. xJ.fo, rMd.osstown,               Lutwidge, R.W.S.,M.A., 21, Old Square,
Kinnear, J.                                    Longford.
             G.,  Edinburgh.                 Street, Lon     Lincoln's Inn.
Knox, Geo.        10, Nassau                              Lutwidge, Charles, M.A., Hull.
             J.,                                          Lyell, Charles, Junr., M.A., F.R.S.
don.
Knox, Thos. P., 10, Nassau Street, Lon                       F.L.S. F.G.S., London.
                                                                                    M.
don.

Lansdowne, The Most Noble the Mar-                        Macartney, Jas., M.D., F.R.S. M.R.I.A,,
   quis of, F.R.S., D.C.L., Bowood,                       MaPcrborfiedses,oJr.Dof.,ADn.aCto.Lm.,y,PriDn.ubMlaing.d. HalL
   Wiltshire.
                                                             Oxford.
Lanyon, Charles, Naas.                                    Macdonnell, Hercules H. G., F.T.C.,
Laprimaudaye, Rev. H., M.A., Leyton.                      Dublin.
Larcom, Lieut. R.E., Phoenix Park, Dub                                 Rev. Dr., F.T.C.,
                                                          Macdonnell,                       Dublin.
    lin.                                                  Maclnnnes,   Col. J., Edinburgh.
                                                          Mackenize, Sir, F. A., Bart., Gairloch,
Lardner.Rev.Dionysius, LL.D., F.R.S.,                     Ross-shire, Union Club House.
                                                          Mackie,Rev.J.W.,M.A., ChristChurch,
    London.
Latouche,D.C.,M.R.I.A., Castle Street,

    Dublin.
Lauder, Sir Thos. Dick,F.R.S.E., Edin
                                                          Oxford.
                                                          Maclagan, David, M.D., F.R.S.E., Edin
   burgh.         MA.,  Boxford,                          burgh.
Law, Rev.Wm.                                 Suffolk.
Lawrence, William, F.R.S., Whitehall                      Magu ire, Bernard, Belmont, Co. West-
Place.
Lawson, William, Liverpool.                                   meath.
Leadbetter, John, Glasgow.
                                                          Marsh, Henry, M.D., M.R.I.A., 24,
                                                             Molesworth Street, Dublin.
Lecson, H. B., Greenwich.
Leinster, His Grace the Duke of, Carlton                  MMMMaaaarrrrssstihhhnaaa,llllll,,,F.JJJoo.ChhGann.m,,, bJMHuri.nedAagr..de, i.nHHgeleeaaydd,ininLggeleleedyys...
House, Maynooth.
Lemon, Sir Charles, Bart., M. P., M.A.,                   Martineau, Rev. James, Liverpool.
F.R.S. and G.S., Carclew, Cornwall.                       Mason, Thomas, York
Lendrick, Charles, M.D., 3, Hatch
                                                          Maynard, Henry, London.
   Street, Dublin.
Liddell, Andrew, Glasgow.                                 Mayne, Rev. Charles, M.R.I.A., 2,
Lister, Jos. Jackson, F.R.S. Tokenhouse
                                                             Upper Merrion Square, Dublin.
   Yard.                                                  McAdam, James, Corr. Sec. Nat. Hist.
Littledale, Harold.
                                                             Soc., Belfast.
Lloyd, Rev. Barth., LL.D., Provost of                     McCullagh, Jas., F.T.C., 7, Trinity Col
   Trinity College, Dublin.                               lege, Dublin.

Lloyd, Rev. Humphrey, F.T.C., Profes                      McCullagh, George, Cullenswood.
   sor of Natural and Experimental Phi                    Melville, The Right Hon. Lord Viscount,
    losophy, Dublin.                                         Melville Castle.

Lloyd, Owen, Boyle.                                       Miller, Rev. W. H., M.A., F.G.S., Pro
Lloyd, W. Horton, Belfast                                    fessor of Mineralogy, Cambridge.
Lock, Edward, Oxford.
Lock, Sir Joseph, Oxford.                                 Miller, Patrick, M.D., Exeter.
Loder, John Smith, Bristol.                               Miller, David, M.A., F.R.S.E., Edin
Lodge, Rev. John, M.A. Fellow of Mag                         burgh.
                                                          Milne, Sir David, K.C.B., F.R.S.E.,
    dalen College, Oxford.
London, The Lord Bishop of, St. James's                      Edinburgh.
                                                          Milne, Captain, R.N., F.R.S.E., Edin
                                                             burgh.
    Square.                                               Milton, Lord Viscount, Milton.
                                                          Money, Rev. K. E., M.A., Ledbury,
Lowe, George, F.G.S., Civil Engineer.                     Moore, Alexander, M.D., Preston.
Lubbock, John W., M.A., V.P.R.S.,
Eaton Place, Belgravc Square.

                                                                                                                                                                            .
8 LIFE MEMBERS.

Moore. Wm. D., 9, St. Anne Street, Dub-       Owen, Robert, College of Surgeons.
   lin.                                       Owen, Jeremiah, Plymouth.

Morant, James, Magdalen College, Cam

Mobrreid, geJ.. S., Advocate, F.R.S.E., Edin  Palmer, William, M.A., 5, Essex Court,
burgh.                                            Temple. ·
Morgan, Wm.,D.C.L., 26, Old Square,
                                              Palmer, William, Harcourt Street, Dublin.
MoLrignacno,ln'Js.  Inn.  Hanwell.            Parker, C. S., Liverpool.
                    M.,                       Parker, Rev. William, M.A., Saham,

Morpeth, TheRight Hon. Lord Viscount,            Norfolk.
   M.P., M.A., &c., &c.. Castle Howard.
                                              Parsons, George, Sec. Phil. Inst., Bir
Morris, Samuel, M.R.D.S. Fortvein
                                                 mingham.
   Clontarf.                                  Pasley, Lieut.-Col.  C. W.,  R £.,                   C.B.,
Murchison, Rod. Impey, F.R.S., G.S.,          F.R.S., Chatham.
                                              Paxton, James, Surgeon, Oxford.
   Bryanstone Place.                          Peacock,Rev. Geo.,M.A., F.R.S. F.G.S.,
Murphy, Rev. Robert, M.A., Fellow of
                                                 Tutor  oRf eTvr.inWityilliCaomlle,geL, L.CDa.m, bFri.dRg.Se..,
    Caius College, Cambridge.                 Pearson,
Murphy, Lieut.,R.E.,F.R.A.S., Ordnance        V.P.R.A.S., South Kilworth, Lei

    Map Office, Tower.                            cestershire.
Musgrave, Rev. T., M.A., Professor of
                                              Pearson, Rev. Thomas, M.A., Fellow of
   Arabic, Trinity College, Cambridge.

                          N.                  Queen's College, Oxford.
                                              Pearson, Charles, Greenwich.
Nairne, James, F.R.S.E., Edinburgh.                              Hon. Sir Robert, Bart.,
Neilson, Robert.                              Peel, The   Right  Whitehall Gardens.
Newby, Richard, Bookseller, Cambridge.                    M.P.,
Newman, Wm. Lewin, York.                        LL.D.,
Nicholson, John, Dublin.
Norris, Charles, Halifax.                     Peile, Williamson, 14, Luke Street, Dub
Norris, William, Halifax.                        lin.
Northen, Richard, Sec. Lit. & Phil. Soc.      Pendarves,E.W.W.,M.A., M.P., F.R.S.
. Hull.
Northampton, The Most Noble the Mar              F.G.S., Pendarves, Cornwall.
                                              Pennefather, Edward, 5, Fitzwilliani
   quis of, M.A., F.G.S., Castle Ashby,
    Northampton.                                 Square, Dublin.
                                              Pering, The Rev. John, Kildwick, Cra
                              O.                 ven, Yorkshire.
                                              Perkins, Rev. B. R., B.C.L., Christ
O'Beirne, James, M.D., 23, North Cum          Church, Oxford.
    berland Street, Dublin.                   Perry, Rev. Charles, M.A., Fellow of
                                                 Trinity
O'Brien, Edward, Oxford and Cambridge         Pettiward,  CRoellevg. eD, ..CMa.mAb.,ridFg.Ge..S.,  Stow-
    Club, London.
                                                 market, Suffolk.
O'Callaghan, George, Tulla, County            Phillips, John, F.R.S. F.G.S., Prof.Geol.
    Clare.
                                                  King's College, London.
Oliphant, William, Junr., Edinburgh.          Philpot, Rev. H., M.A., Fellow of Catha
O'Reardon, John, M.D., 33, York Street,
                                                 rine Hall, Cambridge.
   Dublin.                                    Pike, Ebenezer, Cork.
O'Reilly, Lieut.-Col., Kelso.                 Pirn, George, 15, Usher's Island, Dublin.
Orpen, John Herbert, A.M., 13, South          Pollock, Andrew, 16, Capel Street, Dub
                                                 lin.
   Frederick Street, Dublin. .                Porter, Rev. Charles, B.D., Stamford.
Orpen, Charles, M.D., 11, North Great
                                              Porter, H. J. Castle Tanderagee, County
    George Street, Dublin.
Osborne, Jeremiah, Tommey's Hotel,               Armagh.

    Dublin.                                   Porter, Rev. Thomas, H. 12, Trinity
                                                 College, Dublin.

                                              Portlock, Captain, R.E., M.R.I.A., Ord

                                                 nance Survey Office, Dublin.
                                              Potter, Samuel Thomas, County Leitrim.
                                             LIFE MEMBERS.

Potter, Richard, junr., Smedley Hall,                   Roughton, William, junr., Kettering.
   Manchester.                                          Russell, James, Birmingham.
                                                        Russell, Rev. T., Enfield.
Powell, Rev. Baden, F.R.S., Savilian
   Professor of Geometry, Oxford.                                                  S.

Pratt, John H., B.A.,' Caius College,

    Cambridge.                                          Sadleir, Rev. Dr., Senior Fellow of Tri
Pratt, Samuel P., F.L.S. F.G.S., Bath.
Prelions, Thomas, 12, Upper North
Cumberland Street, Dublin.                              Sannditeyrs,CoJl.legNe.,,  Dublin.
Preswick,                                                                          Bristol.
Prichard,  IJ.osCep, hM, .DLo.,ndFo.nR..S.,             Sanders, William, Bristol.
                                             Bristol.   Scholfield, Edward, M.D., Doncaster.
Pring, Captain Daniel, R.N., London.
Putland, George, Lower Mount Street,                    Scoresby, Rev. William, F.R.SS. L. &E.,
                                                        &c., Exeter.
Dublin.                                                 Searle, William, Cambridge.
                                                        Sedgwick, Rev. Adam, M-A-, F.R.S.
                           R.
                                                           F.G.S., Woodwardian Professor of
Radford, John G., 11, Catherine Street,

Liverpool.                                                 Geology, Cambridge.               F.R.S.E.,
Radford, William, Trinity College, Dub                  Selby, Prideaux John,                           &c.,

   lin.                                                 Twizell House, Northumberland.
                                                        Selwyn, Rev. W., M.A., Ely.
Radice, Evasio, LL.D., Trinity College,                 Serle, Rev. Philip, B.D., Oddington,
   Dublin.
                                                           Oxfordshire.
Raffles, Rev. Thomas, LL.D., Edge Hill,                 Sharp, Rev. Samuel, M.A., Wakefield.
                                                        Sharp, John, B.A., Magdalen College,
Liverpool.

Ranee, Henry, Cambridge.                                Cambridge.
Rathbone, William, Liverpool.                           Sheppard, Henry, Bristol.
Rawson, Christopher, F.G.S., Pres. Lit.                 Sherrard, D. H., 72, Blessington Street,
Reaandd.PWhi.lH. .SRo.c,.   Halifax.
                           B.A.., F.L.S.,    Lincoln's  Dublin.

   Inn.                                                 Shore, Offley, Sheffield.
Reade, Rev. Joseph B., M.A., Halifax.                   Short, Rev. Augustus, M.A., Christ
Rennie, George, F.R.S., Whitehall
                                                           Church, Oxford.
   Place.                                               Sigmond, G. G., M.D., 24, Dover Street.
Rennie, Sir John, V.P.R.S., Whitehall                   Simms, William, F.R.A.S., 136, Fleet

Place.                                                      Street.
Rice, Right Hon. T. Spring, M.A., M.P.,
    8tc., &c.,                                          Singer, Rev. Dr. F. H., Dublin.
Richardson,     DJ.o,wMni.nDg.,  Street.     Chatham.   Sirr, Rev. Jos. D., Lower Castle Yard,

                                  F.R.S.,               Dublin.
Rickman, Thomas, F.S.A., Birmingham.
Rigaud, S. P., M.A., F.R.S., Savilian                   Sligo, George, Seacliffe, Haddington.
                                                        Sligo, John, Carnegie, Scotland.
Professor of Astronomy, Oxford.                                   R.  H., Kingston Bottom.
Robison, John, Sec. R.S.E., Edinburgh.                  Smales,  Dr.
Robinson, Rev. T. R., D.D., Professor of                Smith,        J. Pye, Homerton.
                                                        Smith, Rev. G. Sidney, Trinity College,

   Astronomy, Armagh.                        Dublin.    Dublin.
                                                        Smith, Samuel, Lincoln's Inn.
Rochfort, J. S., Sackville       Street,

Roe, George, Nutley, Donnybrooke.                       Somerset, His Grace the Duke of, Presi
Rogers, Rev. John, M.A., Canon of
                                                        dent of the Linnean Society and of the
                                                           Royal Institution, Park Lane.
   Exeter.                                              Spineto, Marchese, Cambridge.
Roget, P. M., M.D., Sec. R.S., F.L.S.                   SSStptaaonnlltelieysy,w,oJRo.deevH,.oElCt.,o,l.MMa.nAc.h, eFst.eLr..S. F.G.S.,

   F.G.S., 39, Bernard Street, Russell

    Square.                                             Alderley, Cheshire.
Roseberry, The Right Hon. the Earl of,                  Stanley, A. P., Alderley.
                                                        Stapleton, M. H., M.B.,              1,  Mountjoy
   Dalmeny Park.
Rotch, Benjamin, Furnival's Inn.                        Place, Dublin.
Rothman, R. W., F.R.A.S., F.G.S.,

   Fellow of Trinity College, Cambridge.
    10 LIFE MEMBERS.

    Stevenson, Robert, F.R.S.E., F,G.S.,                                                     Towgoocr, Edward, St. Neot's, Hunts.
    · Edinburgh.                                                                             Townsend, R. E., Doctors' Commons.
    Steventon, Edwin, M.A., Fellow of
    Corpus Christi College, Cambridge.                                                       Trevelyan.W.C, M.A., F.R.S.E., F.L.S.
    Stewart, Thomas, Liverpool.                                                                 F.G.S., Wallington, Northumberland.
    Stowe, William, Buckingham.
    Straton.Major-General, Sir Jos., K.C.H.,                                                 Tuckitl, Frederick.
       K.C.B., F.R.S.L. & E., Edinburgh.                                                     Turnbull.Rev.T. S., F.R.S., Caius Col
    Strickland,  JE.usEt.a,chLiouusg, hYGorlykn-.n
    Strickland,                                     House.                                       lege, Cambridge.
                                                                                             Turner, Samuel, F.R.S. F.G.S., Liver
    Strong, Rev. William, Stanground, Pe
    terborough.                                                                                  pool.
    Strutt, William, Temple.
    Stuart, Robert, Manchester.                                                              Turner, Edward, M.D., F.R.S. L.& E.,
    Sutherland, A. R., M.D., F.R.S., 1, Par
    Sultihaemrleanntd,StrAele.t.J., 1, Parliament Street.                                        Sec. G.S., Professor of Chemistry,
                                                                                                 London University.
                                T.                                                           Tvrconnell, The Right Hon. the Earl of,
    Tayler, Rev. J. J., B.A., Manchester.                                                       F.R.S. F.G.S., Kiplin Catterick, York
    Taylor, John, F.R.S., Treasurer of the                                                       shire.
       Geological Society,
    Taylor, John, junr.,            14, Chatham Place.                                       Upton, James Samuel, F.G.S., Trinity
    Mold.                            F.G.S., Coed du                                             College, Cambridge.

    Taylor, Richard,            AFs.Gsis.Sta.,ntF.SS.Aec.,reRtaerdy                          Verney, Sir Harry, Lower Claydon,
       Linnean Society,                                                                          Bucks.
       Lion Court, Fleet         Street.
    Taylor, Richard, junr., F.G.S., Truro.                                                   Vernon, Hon. George John, M.P., 25,
    Taylor, Rev. William, York.                                                                 Wilton Crescent.
    Taylor, W. C., Seymour Street, Euston
    Square.                                                                                  Veysie, Rev. Daniel,B.D.,Christ Church,
    Tennant,                                                                                    Oxford.
    Tennent,    CRh.aJr.le, s,    Glasgow.  of      Literary                                                           W.
                                President
    Society, Belfast.                                                                       Walker, Rev. Robert, M.A., F.R.S.,
    Thodey, Winwood, Poultry, London.                                                           Wadham College, Oxford.

    TThhooHmmouapssseoo,nn,,DiSnDigr.leEP,d.,wCaoMrud.nR,ty.IB.KiArem.r,riynB.guhranmha. m  Walker, Joseph N., F.L.S., President of
                                                                                                the Liverpool Royal Institution.
    Thompson, Leonard, Hutton Park,
       Yorkshire.                                                                           Wallinger, Rev. William, Hastings.
    Thomson, Corden, Sheffield.                                                             Walsh, John, Pi ussian Consul, Dublin.
    Thomson, George, Oxford.                                                                Wansey,W.,l, Riches Court, LimeStreet.
    Thomson,    James, F.R.S.E., Clitheroe.                                                 Ward, Rev. Richard, M.A., 24, Cadogan
    Thomson,    Anthony Todd, M.D., F.L.S.
                Professor of Materia Medica,                                                    Place.
       F.G.S.,                                                                              Warwick, W. A., Cambridge.
                                                                                            Wasse, Jonah, M.D., Moat Hall, Bo-
       London   JU.niGv.e,rsEitdyi.nburgh.
    Thomson,                                                                                    roughbridge.
                                                                                            Waterhouse, John, Halifax.
    Thomson, Thomas, Edinburgh.                                                             Watson, Henry H., Bolton.
    Thorpe, Rev. Thomas, M.A., F.G.S.,                                                      Watkins, James R., Bolton.
    Trinity College, Cambridge.                                                             Waud, Rev. S. W., Fellow and Tutor of
    Tierney, Edward, M.R.D.S., 15, Lower
    Fitzwilliam Street, Dublin.                                                                 Magdalen College, Cambridge.
    Tite, William, Honorary Secretary to                                                    Webb, Rev. John, Tretvre, Hereford.
    London Institution, 25, Upper Bed                                                       Webb, Rev. T. W., M.A., Ross.
    ford Place.
                                                                                            Weld, Isaac, Sec. R.D.S. M.R.I.A.,
    Tobyn, Sir John, Liverpool,
                                                                                                Dublin.

                                                                                            West, William, M.D., M.R.I.A., 5,

                                                                                                Great Denmark Street, Dublin.
                                                                                            Wetherherd, Rev. Thos., Leeds.
                                                                                            Wharton, W. L., M.A., Dryburn, Dur

                                                                                                ham.

                                                                                            Whewell, Rev. Wm., F.R.S. F.G.S.,
                                                                                               Trinity College, Cambridge.

                                                                                            Whatton, Rev. Robert, F.R.S., Man

                                                                                                chester,

F\
                             ANNUAL SUBSCRIBERS.                                                          11

J.Wigram, Rev.      C., 5, Cork Street,                   Wood, G. W., F.L.S. F.G.S., Singleton

Bond Street.                                                 Lodge,  MJ.aWnc.h,eFst.eRr..A.S.,            
Williams, David, F.R.S., Bleadon.near                     Woolgar,
   Cross, Somersetshire.                                                                        Lewes.
                                                          Woolley, William, Solicitor, Hull.
Williams, C. J. B., M.D., Halfmoon                        Wrottesley, John, Blackheath.

   Street, Piccadilly.                                                            Y,
Williams, Richard, Dean Street, Dublin.                   Yarrell, William, Ryder Street, St.
Williams, Robert, Bridehead, Dorset.
Williams, Robert, junr., 36, Grosvenor                       James's.
                                                          Yate, Rev. Charles, M.A., Fellow of St.
Square.    WJ.i,lliajumn,r.,BirBcehrinncooLsaen, e. Corn
Williams,                                                    John's College, Cambridge.
Williams,                                                 Yates, R. V., Toxteth Park, Liverpool.
                                                          Yates, Joseph Brooke, F.S.A., President
wall.
Willimott, John, F.G.S., 45, Great                           of the Literary & Philosophical Society,
                                                             Liverpool, West Dingle, Liverpool.
   Marlborough Street.                                    Yates, "Rev. Jas., M.A., F.L.S. F.G.S.,
Willis, Rev. Robert, M.A., F.R.S. and                        Secretary to the Philological Society,
                                                             49, Upper Bedford Place.
   F.G.S., Caius College, Cambridge.                      Yates, George, 2, Grafton Street, Dublin.
Wilson, James, F.R.S. E., Edinburgh.                      York, His Grace the Archbishop, of,
Wilson, Rev. Dr. James, M.R.I. A.,                           Bishopthorpe.
   Dublin.                                                Young, Rev. John, D.D., M.R.A.S.,
                                                             Warwick House, Cheltenham.
Winsor, F. A., M.R.I.A., 10, John                         Younge, Robert, F.L.S., Sheffield.

   Street, Adclphi.  J. E., M.A..        F.L.S.
Winterbottom, Rev.
F.G.S., St. John's College, Oxford.
Wood, John, London.

                    ANNUAL SUBSCRIBERS.

Abell, Joshua, 27, Euston Street, Dub                     Adams, William O'Brien, Cavendish
   lin.                                                      Row, Dublin.

Abercromby, Sir Robert, Bart., Edin                       Adams, Neason, M.D., 72, Stephen's
                                                              Green, Dublin.
   burgh.  J.  H.,  F.L.S.,                                          JR.,obEedrti,nbKuergnhsi.ngton.
Abraham,                     Sheffield.                   Addams,
Acland, A. H.D., B.A., Christ Church,                     Adie, A.
                                                          Adie, Alexander, Edinburgh.
   Oxford.                                                Aher, David, Castle Comer, Ireland.
Acland, T. D., M.A., All Souls' College,                  Aiken, James, M.D., Edinburgh.
                                                          Ainger, Rev. Dr., Edinburgh.
   Oxford.                   Killerton,                   Ainslie, Lieutenant-General, Falkirk.
Acland, H. Wentworth,                                     Ainslie, Robert, Edinburgh.
                                                          Ainslie, Whitelaw, M.D., Edinburgh.
   Devon.                                                 Ainslie, John, Edinburgh.
Adair, Henry, 11, Mountjoy Square                         Aitcheson, Rev. David, M.A., Queen's

    South, Dublin.                                           College, Oxford.
Adair, John, 11, Mountjoy Square                          Aitchison, Lieutenant- Colonel, Dun-

    South, Dublin.
Adam, Matthew, Rector Acad., Inver

    ness.                                                 more.
Adams, Robert, 11, Great Denmark
                                                          Aitchison, Captain Robert.
Street, Dublin.

                                                                                                      b2
   12 ANNUAL SUBSCRIBERS.

   Aitchison, George, Edinburgh.                                  Astle, W. H., A.B., Edenderry.
   Aitkcn, Rev. David, Minto.                                     Astley, Thomas, Bonnington.
   Aitkcn, Thomas Johnstone, M.D., Edin                           Aston, Lieutenant Henry, Bombay

      burgh.                                                         Army.
   Alcock, Benjamin, M.D., Frederick                              Atkins, William, Royal Canal Terrace,
   Street, Dublin.
               V.,                                                Dublin.
   Alcock, E.  R.
   Alexander,              C3,,  Hume Street, Dublin.             Atkinson, George, 26, Lower Bridge
                                 Wadham College, Ox                            DGu.bClin,.
   ford, Corsham, Wilts.                                              Street,               Newcastle.
                                                                  Atkinson,
   Alexander, Professor A., St. Andrew's.                         Atkinson, F. B., Edinburgh.
                                                                  Auchinleck, William, 39, Dominick
   Alexander, Cunninghame, Edinburgh.
   Alexander, Edward, 35, College Green,                          Street, Dublin.
                                                                  Auld, John, Edinburgh.
       Dublin.                                                    Austin, Rev. Gilbert, Merrion Square
   Alison, A., F.R.S.E., Edinburgh.
   Alison, W. P., M.D., F.R.S.E., Profes                          North, Dublin.
                                                                  Aytoun, W. B., Edinburgh.
      sor of Institutes of Medicine, Edin

   burgh.                                                         Aytoun, Roger, Edinburgh.
   Allan, Thomas, Edinburgh.
   Allen, Lieutenant,            RY..N, .,DuEmatforinesS. quare.
   Anderson, Andrew                                                                             B.
   Anderson, Rev. John, Edinburgh.
   Anderson, Adam, M.H.S. Edinburgh.                              Bacon, Robert, Londonderry.
   Anderson, John, F.A.S., Edinburgh.                             Badenach, Robert, Surgeon to the Forces,
   Anderson, David, Edinburgh.
   Anderson, David, Indian Navy.                                      Edinburgh.
   Anderson, George, Edinburgh.                                   Badnall, Richard, Isle of Man.
   Anderson, David,Exeter College, Oxford,                        Bagot, Andrew, 1, Rathmine's Road,

      Edinburgh.                                                      Dublin.
   Anderson, Adam, LL.D., F.R.S., Perth.                          Bagot, Andrew, jun., 61, Fleet Street,
   Anderson, Dr. Charles, Edinburgh.
   Anderson, Rev. Christopher, Edinburgh.                             Dublin.
   Anderson, John, jun., Edinburgh.                               Bagot, John, 1, Rathmine's Road, Dub
   Anderson, Rev. John, Newburgh.
   Anderson,   James C. E.,                                           lin.
   Anderson,                     Edinburgh.                       Bagot, Charles, 1, Rathmine's Road,
               J. W., M.D.,      Edinburgh.
   Anderson, Thomas, Montreal, Edin                                   Dublin.
                                                                  Baily, Francis, V.P.R.S., 37, Tavistock
   burgh.
   Anderson, Henry, Leith.                                            Place, London.
   Anderson, Rev. T. G., Portobello, Edin                         Baily, Samuel, President of the Literary

   burgh.                                                             and Philosophical Society, Sheffield.
   Andrew, James, Edinburgh.                                      Bain, Nicholson, Edinburgh College.
   Andrew, M. F., London.                                         Baird, Rev. Andrew, Edinburgh.
   Andrews, Thomas, M.D., Belfast.                                Baird, William, Edinburgh.
                                                                  Baird, Principal G. H., Edinburgh.
   Angus,   GJoeohrnge, ,    Edinburgh.  North  Fred-             Baird, Rev. John, Kirkliston.
   Anster,                                                        Baker, George, M.D., 22, Amiens Street,
                           LL.D., 12,
                                                                      Dublin.
       crick Street, Dublin.                                      Baker, T. B. L., 9, Ryder Street, St.
   Anstruther, Sir R. A., Ballaskie.
                                                                     James's.
   Armstrong, Rev. George, 3, Upper Lee-                          Baker, Rev. Nicholas, 2, Hamilton Row,

   son Street, Dublin.                                               Dublin.
   Armstrong, Andrew, 17, Trinity College,                        Bald, William, F.R.S.E., Board of
       Dublin.
   Arnott, John James, Leithfield.                                   Works, Dublin.
   Arnott, Neill, M.D., 38, Bedford Square.
   Arrow, Captain, R.N., Edinburgh.                               Balfour, J. H., M.D., Edinburgh.
   Ashby, S., Edinburgh.
   Aspland, Rev. R. Brook, M.A., Bristol.                         Balfour, Francis, Fefnie Castle.
                                                                  Balfour, William, M.D., Edinburgh.
                                                                  Ball, Nicholas, 85, Stephen's Green So.,

                                                                     Dublin.

                                                                  Ballantync, J. A., London.

                                                                  Ballingall, Sir George, M.D., Edinburgh.

X
                                      ANNUAL SUBSCRIBERS.                                               13

Banks, Rev. J. S., B.C.L., Hemingford,                Beaumont, Rev. J., Edinburgh.
                                                      Begbie, James, M.D., Edinburgh.
   Grey, Hunts.                                       Beilby, G. T., M.D., Edinburgh.
Barber, Robert H., Edinburgh.                         Beilby, William, M.D., Edinburgh.
Barclay.Capt. A.,Portobello, Edinburgh.               Beke,' C. T., 3, North Buildings, Fins-
Barclay, Captain, of Uiy.
Barclay, Thomas, Castlebar.                           bury Circus.
Bardin,  JR.,ev2.4,CNhaorrltehs,   D.D., Cookstown.   Belhaven, the Right Hon. Lord, Wishaw
Barker,                           Cumberland Street,
                                                      House.
                                                      Bell, David, 60, Blessington Street,
Dublin.
Barker, William, B.A., 22, Baggot Street,
                                                      Dublin.
                                                      Bell, T. B., Edinburgh.
Dublin.
Barlow, John, Clontarf, Ireland.                      Bell, John B., jun., Edinburgh.
                                                      Bell, G. H., Edinburgh.
Barlow, Peter, 51, Great George Street                Bell, Sir Charles, 30, Lower Brook
North, Dublin.
                HHo. nC. ,MLro.ndon.
Barlow,                                               BeSllt,rePerto, feGsrsoosrveGn.oJr.,SqEudairneb, uLrgohn.don.
Barlow,
                                                      Bell, James William, K.C., 1, Gardiner
Barlow, Francis, Lower Gardiner Street,

Dublin.                                               Street, Dublin.

Barlow, Major, 14th Regiment, Rich                    Bell, George William, Edinburgh.
mond Barracks, Dublin.                                Bell, William, F.R.S.E., Edinburgh.
Barnes, Rev. Frederick, D.D., Canon of                Bell, William, M.D., Edinburgh. '
                                                      Bell, John, Royal Barracks, Dublin.
Christ Church, Oxford.                                Bell, Jos., Edinburgh.
Barnes, John, Hornden, Hants.
Barnes, Jos., 100, Marlborough Street,
                                                      Bell,  GReoobrgeert,J.E, dBinabliuorlghC.ollege,  Oxford.
Dublin.                                               Bell,
Barnes, T., M.D., Carlisle.
                                                      Bell, G.
                                                      Bellingham, Sir AUan, Bart., Castle Bel-
Barnes, Thomas, 8, Upper Pembroke
                 Dublin.
BaSrrt,reeJ.t,  G, Edinburgh.                             lingham.      J. G.,   B.A.,                  Har-
                                                      Bellingham, Rev.
Barrett, James, 103, Baggot Street,                      mondsworth, near Hounslow.
                                                      Bellinghan, O'Brien, M.D., 63, Eccles
Dublin.
Barrett, James, jun., 103, Baggot Street,
                                                         Street, Dublin.
Dublin.                                               Benn, Rev. William, B.D., Harrington
Barry, Martin, M.D., Edinburgh.
Barton, John, 44, Mary Street, Dublin.                Street, Dublin.
Barton, William Henry, Royal Mint.                    Bennett, Lieutenant, R.N.
                                                      Bennett, John, London.
                                                      Benson, Robert, jun., Liverpool.
Barton, Augustin, 1, Fitzwilliam Square,              Benson, Charles, 34, York Street, Dub

   Dublin.                                            lin.
Bayley, John, Nenagh.                                 Bentham, George, Queen Square Ter
Bayley, R. H., Nenagh.                Suffolk.
                                      Edmund's.          race, Westminster.
Bayly,   HWe.nrJy.,,  Templestown,                    Berkeley, Frederick H., St. John's Priory,
Bayne,                M.D., Bury St.
Bayne, John, Edinburgh.
Beasley, H. F., 5, Fitzwilliam Square,                   Chester.
                                                      Bernard, Hermann H., Cambridge.
                                                      Berwick, Walter, Lower Fitzwilliam
   Dublin.
Beasley, Thomas, Fitzwilliam Square W.,               Street, Dublin.
                                                      Bessonet, James, 28, Leeson Street,
Dublin.
Beasley, Thomas John, Fitzwilliam
. Square, Dublin.                                        Dublin.
Beatly, Thomas E., M.D., M.R.I.A.,                    Betham, Sir William, Dublin Castle.
                                                      Betty, William, 32, Rutland Square,
16, Molesworth Street, Dublin.                        Dublin.
Beatson, Captain      W.          F., Edinburgh.      Bevan, Philip, 1, Hatch Street, Dublin.
Beatty, William                   M.D., 28, Moles-    Bevan, William, 1, Hatch Street, Dublin.
                      C,                              Bewley, Samuel, Rockville, Co. Dublin.
                                                      Bingham, Wrn., B.A.,;St. Mary's Hall,
   worth Street,      DCu,blinM..D.,  23,  French
Beauchamp, H.
Street, Dublin.
                                                      Oxford.
14 ANNUAL SUBSCRIBERS.

Bingley, Henry. Royal Mint.                                      Bourne, W. H., Mount Clarence, King
Birch, Lieut. -Col., 23, Pembroke Street,                        ston.
                                                                 Bourne, Frederick, Terenure, County
BBiirsDchhuo,bpl,iWnW.. .J.C, ,M.CAa.,mbLroinddgoen. .           Dublin.
                                                                 Bourne, Richard, Lynnbury, County
Black,  CAd,amEd, inEbduinrgbhu.rgh.                             Westmeath.
Black,                                                           Bowen, Charles Jones, 51, Stephen's
                                                                    Green.
Black, Rufus S., Nova Scotia.                                    Bowen, Charles, junr., 51, Stephen's
Black, Thomas, Edinburgh.                                           Green, Dublin.
Blackadder, Win. Gumniss, Forfar.
Blacker, Col., 8, Merrion Square North,                          Bowstead, John, Graffham, Hunts.
                                                                 Bowstead, Jos., Pembroke College, Cam.
Dublin.
Blacker, Maxwell, 19, Merrion Square
   North, Dublin.                                                    bridge.

Blacker, William, Armagh.                                        Bowstead, John, Westmoreland.

Blackley, Travers, 139. Leeson                          Street,  Boyd,  GJoehonrgeC, ,  Edinburgh.
   Dublin.                                                       Boyd,                   Belfast.
                                                                           RJ.e,v.MC.Dha.,rle3s9,,
Blake, Isidore A., Galway.                                       Boyton,                            Letterkenny.
Bland, Loftus, 23, Upper Pembroke                                Bradley,                           Lower Gloucester
                                                                 Street, Dublin.
                                                                 Bradahaw, Robert Scott, Belfast.
8treet, Dublin.                                                  Bradshaw, Rev. John, Liaburne.
                                                                 Brady, Thomas, M.D., 9, Great Charles
Bland, Rev. R. W./ 23, Upper Pembroke
   Street, Dublin.
Blood, W. B., Edinburgh.                                         BraSdtvre, eJto, hDnubJl.i,n.9, Great Charles Street,
Blood, David R., 92, Lower Gardiner

Street, Duhlin.                                                     Dublin.

Blunt, Henry, Shrewsbury.                                        Brady, Maziere, M.R.I.A., 58, Blessing-
Boase, Henry S., M.D., M.R.G.S.,                                    ton Street, Dublin.
Penzance, Cornwall.
Bodkin, Martin, Tuam.                                            BBrraannddr,eWth,illiJa. mM,.,EdPirnebsutrognh. .

Boileau, Simon, Fitzwilliam Square, Dub                          Brennan, John, Six Clerks' Office, Dub

   lin.                                                             lin.    J.  E.,     M.D.,       M.R.D.S.,  3,
Bolster, Rev. John A., Cork.                                     Brennan,

Bonar, Andrew, Edinburgh.                                           Dawson Street, Dublin.
Bonar, James, Edinburgh.                                         Brereton, David, M.D., 12, York Street,
Booker, Rev. John, Wexford.                                      Dublin.
Booth, Rev. James, 24, Trinity College,                          Brewer, Lieutenant Charles, Leith Fort.
                                                                 Brewster,  Sir David, M.A.
   Dublin.                                                          D.C.L.  Oxon., LL.D.K.,         Cambridge,
Booth, John, M.D., F.G.S., Brush                                                                    H., F.R..S.
                                                                 L. and E., Belville, Kingussie, Scot
   House, Sheffield.                                                land.
Booty, Rev. M. G., M.A., Bodlington,                             Brewster, Rev. H., Forfarshire.
Durham.
Bordes, Lieut., Ordnance Survey Office,                          Brewster, Rev. P., Paisley.
Phoenix Park, Dublin.                                            Bridges, James, Edinburgh.
Borough, Edward, M.R.I. A., 5, Merrion                           Bright, Richard, M.D., F.R.S., 11, Sa-
Square West, Dublin.                                             ville Row.
Borthwick, Dr., Edinburgh.
Boswall,           R.  A.,                                       Brodigan, Thomas, Drogheda.
Boswall,               D.,                                       Brougham, Right Hon. Lord, Brougham
          Captain  J.        Edinburgh.                             Hall.
          Captain           Wandie.                              Broughton, S. D., F.R.S. F.G.S., 12,
Boswell, Wm., 115, Stephen's Green,

   Dublin.                                                       Great Marlborough Street.
                                                                 Broughton, Edward, Edinburgh.
Boswell, J. K., 182, Great Brunswick
   Street, Dublin.                                               Broughton, Captain Bryan.
Bourne, Andrew, Lower Fitzwilliam                                Brown, James, Edinburgh.
                                                                 Brown, Arch., Edinburgh.
Street, Dublin.                                                  Brown, Thomas, Edinburgh.
Bourne, Rt. Hon. Sturges, Brook Street.
                         ANNUAL SUBSCRIBERS.                                                            15

Brown,     W.    JH. .G, .,EdGinlabsugrgowh..  Bushnan, J. S., F.L.S., Dumfries.
Brown,     Dr.
                                               Butler, Charles, M.D., 53, Lower Sack-
Brown, Robert, Edinburgh.                         ville Street, Dublin.
Brown, Captain T., Edinburgh.
Brown, William, Edinburgh.                     Butler, Wm. Archer, Cahir, County Tip -
Brown, John, Dundee.                              perary.
Brown, Rev. John, M.A., Aberdeen.
Browne, Brabazon, 115, Baggot Street,          Butt, Isaac, A.B., 12, Trinity College,
Dublin.                                           Dublin.
Browne, Wade, Roebuck.
Bruce, Sir Michael, Edinburgh.                 Buxton, T. B., Erdington, Warwickshire.
Bruce, Robert, jun., Bristol.                  Byrne, Thos., M.D., 53, William Street,
Bruce, Rev. William, Glasnevin Lodge,
                                                  Dublin.

                                                                  C.

Belfast.                                       Cadell, William, Edinburgh.
Bruce, Robert, Bristol.                        Cadell, W. A., Edinburgh.
Bruce, Stewart, Londonderry.                   Cahill, Michael, Carlow.
Bruce, O. Tyndall, F.R.S.E., Falkland.         Cairns, Rev. W., Professor, Belfast.
Brumel1,John,M.R.I.A.,Turnham Green            Calder, Lieut. -Col., 76, Upper Stephen
Terrace.                                       Street, Dublin.
Brunei, M. I., V.P.R.S., 53, Parliament        Callwell, Robert, 9. Bachelor's Walk,
. Street.                                         Dublin.
Brunton, Alexander, D.D., Edinburgh.           Callwell, Nathaniel, 9, Bachelor'sWalk,
Bryan, Robert B., M.R.D.S., 20, Eccles
                                               Dublin.
                                               CCaammperboenll,,RAelve.xaJn.,deDr.,DD.,unGdreeseh. am Hotel,
Street, Dublin.

Bryson, Robert, Edinburgh.                     Dublin.
Buchan, George, Kelso.                         Campbell, John, F.R.S.E., Edinburgh.
Buchanan, James, Edinburgh.
Buchanan, George, Edinburgh.                   Campbell, Lieut.-Col., Pigeon House
Buchanan, John, Stirlingshire.                 Fort, Dublin.
Buchanan, M. S., M.D., Glasgow.                Campbell, Thomas, Sculptor, 15, Great
Bulman, John, Newcastle.                          Marlborough  JS.t,reeJat,meLso'nsdoGna.te,
                                               Campbell, Rev.
Bunbury, Richardson, 19, Mountjoy              lin.                                           Dub

BunSnqyu,areJ.,  Dublin.                       Campbell,  JJo.,hnH,.EM.I..DC..,S.,EdiEndbiunrbguhr.gh.
                 M., Athena.um.                Campbell,
Burgoyne, Lieut. -Col. G. F. Commis
   sioner of Board of Works, Dublin.           Campbell, Sir John, M.P., Spring Gar
                                                  dens, London.
Burke, J. L., 17, Rutland Square,Dublin.
Burke, C. Granby,M.R.I.A., Cambridge.          Campbell, J. A., Edinburgh.
Burn, James, Edinburgh.
Burne, James, Upper Baggot Street,             Campbell, W. H., Edinburgh.
                                               Campbell, W. W., M.R.I.A., Lying-in

Dublin.                                        Hospital, Dublin.
Burnes, Dr. James, Bombay Med.                 Candlish, Rev. R. S., Edinburgh.
Establishment.                                 Cane, R., M.R.D.S., Dawson Street,
Burnett, George, Newcastle.
                                               Dublin.
                                               Cardwell, James, Lancashire.
Burroughs, Edward, Worcestershire.             Carfrae, Col. John, Edinburgh.
                                               Carleton.W., Edward's Terrace, Dublin.
Burrows, Commissioner Peter, M.K.I. A.,

Leeson Street, Dublin.                         Carley, John, Belfast.
Burrows, Robert, 7, Merrion Square
   North, Dublin.                              Carlisle, Hugh, Bushfield Avenue, Dub
                                               lin.
Burt, J. G. M., Surgeon, Edinburgh.            Carlisle, Rev. Jas., 30, Upper Merrion
                                               Street, Dublin.
Burton, Dccimus, F.R.S., 6, Spring
Gardens, London.
Busby, John, Monkstown Avenue, Dub             Carmichael, William, St. Andrews.
                                               Carmichael, Thomas, Dublin.
lin.                                           Carmichael, Andrew, M.R.I.A., 24, Rut
Bushe, Rev. Wm., 8, Mountjoy Square
   North, Dublin.                              land Square, Dublin.
10 ANNUAL SUBSCRIBERS.

 Cannichael, Richard, M.D., M.R.I.A.,             Clarke, Edward, Merrion and Shelburne
                                                  Hotel, Dublin.
     Dublin.                                      Clarke, Lieut. T. I., Elm Bank, Surrey.
 Carnegie, W. F. L., Kindlishmont.                Clarke, Edward S., Palmereton.
 Carnegy, David, Craige.                          Clarke,                H., Scots Greys, Piershill.
 Carr, E. H., Trinity College, Cambridge.         Clarke,    Capt.        Shadwell, K.H., F.R.S.,
 Carr, Ralph, Dunsrall Hill, Northum                         Major
                                                  Athenaeum, London.
     berland.                                     Clarke, Sir Arthur, M.D., 44, North
                                                     Great George Street, Dublin.
 Carruthers, Right Rev. A., Edinburgh.            Clarke, Sir Charles M., Bart., M.D.,
 Carson, A. R., LL.D., Edinburgh.
 Carson, James, M.D., Liverpool.                     F.R.S., 10, Saville Row, London.
 Carson, James, M.B., Liverpool.                  Claxton, William, Bristol.
 Carter, James, Edinburgh.
 Carter, Sampson, Kilkenny.                       Clayton, General Browne, Adlington
 Caulfield, \\ m., Beaumaris.                        Hall, Lancashire.
 Cay, John, Advocate, F.R.S.E., Edin
                                                  Cleland, James, LL.D., Glasgow.
    burgh.                                        Clements, Henry, Galway.
 Chaigneau, Peter, Upper Fitzwilliam              Clendining, Dr. John, London.
                                                  Clerk, Sir George, Bart., Pennycuik
ChSatlrmeeetr,s,DRuebvli.n.C, Merchiston Castle.  House.
                                                  Clerk, John, Pennycuik House.
Chalmers, Rev. P., Dumferline.                    Clift, William, F.R.S. F.G.S., College of
Chalmers, David, M.D., Edinburgh.                    Surgeons, London.
Chambers, James, Gardiner's Row, Dub              Clinton, Patrick, M.D., Dominick Street,

    lin.                                          Dublin.
Chambers, Robert, Edinburgh.                      Clonbrock, The Right Hon. Lord, Clon-
Chapman, B. L., B.A., Jesus College,              brock, Galway.
                                                  Cockburn, Alexander, Edinburgh.
    Cambridge, Norwich.                           Cockburn, John, Edinburgh.
Chapman, Rev. John, F.T.C., Dublin.               Cockburn, Henry, Advocate, Edinburgh.
Chapman, Rev. James, Edinburgh.                   Cockburn, Patrick, Edinburgh.
Charleton, Edward, Northumberland.                Cockburn, Robert, Edinburgh.
Chawner, Dr. Darwin, Notts.                       Codd, Fcancis, 52, Townsend Street,
Cheape, D., Professor, Edinburgh.
Chcvcrton, Benjamin, London.                      Dublin.
Chibborn, Edward, Cullenswood.                    Cogswell, Charles, Nova Scotia.
Chichester, William, 12, Trinity College,         Coldstream, Dr. John, Leith.
                                                  Cole, Lord, M.P., Florence Court, 111,
    Dublin.
Chichester, Rev. Edward, Kilmore.                 Jermyn Street.
Childers, Capt. William, Enniskerry.              Cole, Edward, County Kildare.
Chittick, James, Enniskillen.                     Colles, Maurice, M.D., 20, York Street,
Christie, David, Edinburgh.
Christison, John, Edinburgh.                      Dublin.
Christy, William, Jun., Cinpham Road.             Colles, William, Stephens's Hospital,
Churchill, Fleetwood, M.D., 104, Ste                 Dublin.
                                                  Colics, Abraham, M.D., 22, Stephen's
    phen's Green, Dublin.                         Green North, Dublin.
Churchill, Capt. C. H., Stirling Castle.          Collins, John Vicars, M.R.D.S., 10,
Churton, Rev. T. T., M.A., Brazennosc,
                                                     Denzille Street, Dublin.
    College, Oxford,                              Colquhoun, Capt. James, R.A., F.R.S. ,
Clancy, John, Fitzwilliam Square South,
                                                  Clonmel.                William, Dumferline.
   Dublin.                                        Colville,              M.D., Leith.
Clare, Peter, Manchester.                         Combe,     JJ.amDe, s
Claridge, James, London.
Clark, Bracev, F.L.S., Regent's Park.             Comins, Inspector-General, London.
Clark, David,' M.D., Edinburgh.                   Connell, James, Irvine.
Clark, Joseph, M.D., Dublin.
Clark, Rev. John, Edinburgh.                      Conncll, Alexander.
Clark, Thomas, Professor of Chemistry,            Connor, Shewbridge, M.D., Ecc!es

    Aberdeen.                                     Street, Dublin.
                                                  Connor, G., 5, Dawson Street, Dublin.
                                          ANNUAL SUBSCRIBERS.                                                                  17

Connor,     H., Roebuck Hquse, Dublin.                      Craig, Rev. E., Edinburgh.
Connor,     Roderick, Four Courts,                          Craig, John, Edinburgh.
Conolly,    John, M.D., Warwick.                 Dublin.

Constable,    TWho.m, aMs,.RE.Id.iAn.b,urg1h1.,  Trinity    Craigie, David, Edinburgh.
Conway, F.                                                  Craigie, Dr. T., Leith.
Street, Dublin.                                             Craigie, H., Edinburgh.
Cooke, James Richard, M.A., 71, Bles-                       Crampton, Phil., M.D., Surgeon General,
sington Street, Dublin.
Cooke, William, M.D., Durham Uni                               Merrion Square, Dublin.
                                                            Crawford, John, 111, Grafton Street,
                                                            Dublin.
versity.                                                    Crawford, Andrew, M.R.D.S., 133, Lee-
Cooke, Capt. Adolphus, Cooksboro',
County        WJ.e,stmMaeraktrhe.e,                            son Street, Dublin.
Cooper,  JEj  Sisson, M.R.I.                                Creighton, G. W., 7, Upper Pembroke
Cooper,                                   Ireland.  Mer-
                                          A. Upper             Street, Dublin.
                                                            Crichton, Sir Alex., KeDt.
rion Street, Dublin.                                        Crichton, Thomas, Dalton, Dumfries.
Cooper, Rev. Peter, 79, Marlborough
                                                            Crighton, Rev. Andrew, Edinburgh.
CopSetr,eeRt,evD.uJb.l,inM. .A., Clare Hall, Cam            Crighton, James, Edinburgh.
bridge.                                                     Cross, Robert, M.D., Wisbench.
                                                            Cruikshank, James, Edinburgh.
Copland, William, Dumfries.                                 Crum, Walter, Glasgow.
Corballis,                                                  Cubitt, Joseph, London.
Corballis,    JaJ.mRes.,  Joseph,         Raloath.   15,    Cullen, James, Etlinburgh.
                                                            Cully, Robert, Bank of Ireland, Dublin.
                          LL.D.,          M.R.I A.,

    Baggot    JS.t,reeMt,.RD.Du.bSli.n,.  11,  Fitzwilliam  Cumming, Rev. Professor, Cambridge.
Corballis,                                                  Cumming, John, Edinburgh.
                                                            Cumming, George, M.D., Chester.
Square, Dublin.                                             Cunningham, Allan, F.L S., Strand on
Corbet, William, Edinburgh.
Corbett, William, 23, Lower Baggot                          the Green, near Kew Bridge.
                                                                         JRA.l.eSxJ..,anEHdde,inr,bEuEdrdignihnb.buurgrghh. .
    Street, Dublin.                                         Cunningham,
Corr, Maurice, 22, Talbot Street, Dublin.                   Cunningham,
Corrie, John, Esq., Pres. Birmingham                        Cunningham,
Philosophical Institute, Woodville,

near Birmingham.                                            Cunningham, Wm., Castle Pollard.
Corrie, J.    R.,  M.D.,
                   M.D.,  Birmingham.                       Cunninghame, Rev. W. B., Preston.
Corrigan,     J.,         4, Merrion Square                 Cunninghame, Rev. W., Edinburgh,

West, Dublin.                                               Cunninghame, Robert, Edinburgh.
Cosby, Major William, M.R.D.S., I, Bel-
videre Place, Dublin.                                       CCuurrrraien,.WR. evH. .,C3,,  Holies Street,    Dublin.
Costello, P., 44, Old Dominick Street,                                                     M.A., Fellow      of Pem

Dublin.                                                        broke College, Cambridge.
. Cotton, Benjamin, Freshwater, Isle of                     Currie, William Lenthill, Roxburgs.
     Wight.                                                 Curry, William, K.C., 37, Summer Hill,
                                                               Dublin.
Cotton, Rev., Archdeacon, Thurlcs.                          Curry, William, jun., 9, Upper Sackville
Coventry, George, B.D., F.R.S.E., Edin                         Street, Dublin.
                                                            Curry, John, Rogerson's Quay, Dublin.
burgh.                                                      Curtis, Patrick, Roebuck, Dublin.
Coulter, John.                                              Curtis, John William, Alton, Hants.
               C. L.,     West Wickham,                     Curti3, John, F.L.S., 57, Upper Char
Courtenay,                K., Finglass.             Kent.
Courtney,     Rev. J.
Cowan, John, Moray House, Edinburgh.'
Cowan, Charles, Valleyfield, Edinburgh.                        lotte Street, Fitzroy Square.
Cowan, Capt. T., R.N., Edinburgh.                           Cuthbertson, Rev.A.,A.M.,Berwickshire.
Cowper, William, M.D., Glasgow.
Cox, John, Gorgie.                                                                         D.

Cox, Abram, Edinburgh.                                      Dalmahoy,   SPiartrJi.ckH, .,EdCinobuurlragnhd.  Park.
                                                            Dalrymple,
                                                            Dalrymple, North, Musselburgh.
Cox, Robert, Edinburgh.                                     Dalton, John, D.C.L.Oxon, F.R.S. &c.,
Crabbe, John, London.                                       Manchester,
Craig, William, M.D., Glasgow.

                                                                                                                               S
18 ANNUAL SUBSCRIBERS.

Daly, James, Dunsandle.                    Dick, David, Architect, Edinburgh.
Daly, Col. D., London.                     Dick, Thomas, LL.D., Broughtyferry.
Daly, Philip, 12, South Frederick Street,  Dick, Maxwell, Irving.
                                           Dickenson, Rev. Charles, D.D..M.R.I.A.,
    Dublin.
Dalyell, John G., Edinburgh.                  21, Baggot Street, Dublin.
Dalyel, Capt., K.N., Edinburgh.            Dickenson, Robert, 26, Summer Hill.
Dalziel, Major John, Edinburgh.            Dickinson, Johu, F.G.S., 22, Bedford
Dalziel, John, Leadhill, Lanark.
Dames, Francis, Greenhill, Dublin.            Row.
D'Arcy, Thomas, M.D., 76, Aungier
                                           Dickson, Sir D. J. H., M.D., Physician
    Street, Dublin.
Darby, Rev.J., Spaidaines Hotel, Dublin.      to R. N. Hospital, Plymouth.
Darley, Frederick, jun., 25, Lower         Dickson, A., Berwickshire.
                                           Dickson, Robert, M.D..F.L.S., 47, Fins-
    Fitzwilliam Street, Dublin.
Darley, Rev. John, M.A., Duncannon.           bury Square, London.
Darley, William F., 20, French Street,     Digby, Rev. W., Kingstown:
                                           Dillon, Edward, 39, York Stieet, Dublin.
    Dublin.                                Disney, Rev. B., 4, Westland Row, Dub
Dassauville, W. A., M.D., Edinburgh.          lin.
Davenport, E. D., Cheshire.                Disney,  Thomas, J., 4, Westland               Row,
David, A. H., Montreal.
                                              Dublin.    J.,  4,  Westland  Row,          Dub
Davidson, J. H., M.D., Edinburgh.          Disney, Rev.
                                              lin.
Davidson, Robert, Edinburgh.               Dobbin, Leonard, M.P., Armagh.
Davidson, W., M.D., Glasgow.               Dods, G. D., Edinburgh.
Davidson, John, A.M., Edinburgh.           Don, David, F.L.S., Limucan Society,
Davidson, James, Glasgow.
Davies, Alexander, B.A., Trinity College,      Soho Square.

    Dublin.                                Donaldson, T. L., Architect, 7, Hart
Davies, David, M.D., Bristol.
Davis, Francis, Waterfoid.                    Street, Bloomsbury, London.
Davis, Francis, jun., Waterford.
Daw, Edmund, Professor Chemistry,          DDooungalladss,onJ,ohJonhnC, ,EdMin.bDu.r,gh6., Dominick

   rLD.S.. M.R.I.A., Dublin.                  Street, Dublin.
Davy, Rev. Dr., Master of Caius College,   Douglas, James, M.D., Kelso.
                                           Douglas, F. B., Edinburgh.
    Cambridge.                             Douglas, W., M.D., Edinburgh.
Dawson, Robert, Ordnance Survey Office,    Douglas, Gen. Sir James, Limerick.
                                           Dowell, Rev. S., Seafield.
   Llangollen, Wales.
Dawson, Lieut., Ordnance Survey Office,    Downey George, M.A.,Ordnance Survey
                                           Office, Dublin.
   Phoenix Park, Dublin.                   Doyne, Philip, 10, Merrion Square, East,
Dawson. Charles, Ordnance Survey Of           Dublin.

    fice, Llangollen, Wales.               Drennan, W., 37, North Cumberland
Day, Robert, 8, Lower Fitzwilliam Street,
                                           Street, Dublin.
    Dublin.                                Drummond, William, 8, Walker Street,
Dcane, William, 72, Dame Street, Dublin.
Dennis, William, M.D., King's County.         Edinburgh.
Denham, John, M.D., 50, William Stieet,    Drummond, John, Edinburgh.
                                           Drummond, Dr., Richmond Barracks,
    Dublin.
Denham, Capt. H. M., R.N., Liverpool.         Dublin.

Dent, E. J., 84, Strand.                   Drummond, W. H., D.D., M.R.I.A 28,

Derbeshire, Samuel, Manchester.            Lower Gardiner Street, Dublin.
                                                      WJ.ilGlia.,mE, diEndbiunrbguhr.gh.
Desormeaux, Surgeon, E I. CS., Madras.     Drysdale,
Deuchar, John, Edinburgh.                  Drysdale,
Dewar, Alexander, M.D., Stirling.          Dublin, His Grace the Archbishop of.
Dewar, Rev., Principal, D.D., Marischal    Ducket, Joseph Fade, Carlow.
                                           Ducket, William, Tuthill's Hotel.
    College, Aberdeen.
                                           Duff, Alexander, Edinburgh.
Dick, John, Advocate, Edinburgh.           Duffv, John, 5, Upper Fitzwilliam Street,
Dick, William, Edinburgh.
                                           Dublin.
                                ANNUAL SUBSCRIBERS.                                               19

Duke, Jemmctt, County Sligo.                        Erskine, Sir John, Torrv, File.
Dunbar, Professor, Edinburgh.                       Esdaile, Rev. D., Perth.'
Duubar, William, Dumfries.                          Eustace, John, M.D., 21 M., Gloster
Duncan, P. B., M.A., Keeper of Ash-
                                                        Street, Dublin.
   molean Museum, Fellow of New Col                 Evans, John, London.
    lege, Oxford.                                   Everard, Richard, M.R.D.S., 9, Gren-
Duncan, James, M.D., Edinburgh.
Duncan, Thomas, Edinburgh.                             ville Street, Dublin.
Duncan, Rev. A.B., Perthshire.
Duncan, Rev. Dr. H., Ruthwell, Dum                  Ewing.James, LL.D..F.R.S.E., Glasgow.
    fries.                                          Eyre, John, 29, Trinity College, Dublin.
Duncan, Thomas, Professor, St. Andrews.
Duncan, W. H., M.D., Liverpool.                                         E.
Dundas, George, Advocate, Edinburgh.
Dunn, John, Edinburgh.                              Fairbairn, P., M.D., Edinburgh.
                                                    Falconar, David, Edinburgh.
DDuunnnlo,p,WJi.ll,iaSmou, thGwlaicskg.ow.
                                                    Falconar, Captain, Guards.
Dunlop, Capt. H., R.N., Edinburgh.                  Farquarson, George, Edinburgh.
Durnford, Rev. R., Magdalen College,                Farran, William, Dundrum.
                                                    Farran, Joseph, 44, York Street, Dublin.
    Oxford.                                         Fenwick, Colonel H. R.
Dwycr, Henry L., A.M., 1, Upper Cam                 Fenwick, Robert, Ford, Newcastle.
                                                    Fenwick, John, Ford, Newcastle.
   den Street, Dublin.
Dyer, William, M.D., Aberdeen.                      Ferguson, Hugh, M.D., M.R.I. A., £ack-
Dymock, W. M., Edinburgh.                           ville Street, Dublin.
Dymock, A., M.D., Edinburgh.                        Ferguson, Lieut. -Colonel James, Huntly
                                                       Burn, Melrose.

                                                    Ferguson, Lieut. -Colonel H. R., Grena
                                                       dier Guards.
                            E.                      Ferguson, William, A.B., 38, Mary

Eames, Rev. William, M.R.I. A., Tyr                 Street, Dublin.

rell's Pass.                                        Ferguson,  George,  CE,diMnb.uDr.g,h.16,  North
                                                    Ferguson,  James
Edington, Thomas, Glasgow.
Edington, William, 18, Leinster Street,                Frederick Street, Dublin.
Dublin.                                             Ferguson, Montgomery, M.D., Scuth

Edmondston,     JRaemv.esJ., ,  Edinburgh.             Anne Street, Dublin,
Edmondston,                     Edinburgh.          Fergusson, William, Edinburgh.
                                                    Ferns, the Lord Bishop of, 19, Merrion
Edwards,   JE.,dwBa.rAd.,,
Ellis, F.                   London.   4,    Garden     Square, Dublin.
                             F.G.S.,                Ferrall, Thomas, 3, Merrion Square,

   Court, Temple, London.                              Dublin.
Ellis, Francis, Bristol.                            Ferrier, Alexander, jun., Knockmaroon,
Ellis, Daniel,
                 Edinburgh.                         FerIrreielar,ndC. , Accountant, Edinburgh.
Elliot, J. F.,  Durham.
Elliot, Robert, Edinburgh.                          Ferrier, Alexander, William Street, Dub
Elliott, Sir William, Bart., Stobbs Cas
                                                    lin.
                                                    Field, Henry, M.D., Blackrock, Ireland.
tle.
Elliott, Comm. -general, 6, Lower Pem               Field, Joshua, London.
                                                              William H.,
   broke Street, Dublin.                            Filgate,  John.LL.D.,   Castle Bellinghain.
Ellis, Thomas, M.D., 5, South Fred                  Finlay,                 31, North Cumber

erick Street, Dublin.                                  land Street, Dublin.
Elphinstone, Howard, M.A., F.R.S., 19,              Finnucane, Andrew, Tommey's Hotel.
   Eaton Place, London.
                                                    Fitzgerald, Rev. J. R., Loughlinstown
EIrington, Charles, D.D., M.R.I. A., 24,
   Fitzwilliam Street, Dublin.                      House.

Emerson, J. S., 49, William Street,                 Fitzgerald, George, London.
                                                    Fitzpatrick, Matthew, 12, Peter Street,
Dublin.                                                Dublin.
Ennis, John, Harcourt Street, Dublin.               Fitzpatrick, Thomas, M.D., 12, Park
Erskinc, Alexander, F.L.S., London.
                                                    Street, Dublin.

                                                                                 C*

                                                                                              Sl
    20 ANNUAL SUBSCRIBERS.

    Fleming, Christopher M.D., 9, Moles-     French, Charles, Club House, Kildare
       worth Street, Dublin.                 Street, Dublin.
    Fleming, Lieut. -Colonel, lnverary.
    Fletcher, Samuel, Manchester.            French, Arthur,        9, Merrion Square,
    Fletcher, John, M.D., Edinburgh.            Dublin.
    Flood, P. T., F.R.D.S., Lower Mount      French, Henry.
       Street, Dublin.                       Frend, William, M.A., F.R.S., 31, Upper
    Flood, Valentine, M.D., M.R.I. A., 19,   Bedford Place.
                                             Frerc, B., M.A., 45, Bedford Square.
    Blessington Street, Dublin.              Frere,                  45, Lincoln's Inn Fields.
    Flynn, Rev. Thomas, 3, Kildare Place,    Fryer,  GJ.eoHrg.e, ,  Whitby House, Northum
       Dublin.
    Foot, Lundy, 14, Upper Fitzwilliam       berland.
       Street, Dublin.
    Footc, Simon, Essex Bridge, Dublin.      Fullerton, Hon. Lord, Edinburgh.
                                             Furlong, John William, 146, Leeson
                                             Street, Dublin.
    Forbes, William, Edinburgh.
    Forbes, Edward, Isle of Man.             Furlong, Rev. Thomas, 146, Leeson
                                             Street, Dublin.
                                         *-
    Ford, Thomas, 12, Mountjoy Square
    South, Dublin.                           Furniss, B., Edinburgh.
                                             Fyfe, Dr. Andrew, F.R.S.E., Edinburgh.
    Fordyce,  George   D., Edinburgh.
    Fonnan,           Edinburgh.                                    G.
              John,
    Forman,           Edinburgh.             Gairdner, Edward, M.D., Edinburgh.
    Forman,   J. A.,                         Gairdner, John, M.D., 18, Hill Street,
              J. N.,   Edinburgh.
    Forrest, Richard, Heathticld Terrace,       Edinburgh.
       Farnham Green.
    Forrester, John, Edinburgh.              Galbraith, William, M.A., Edinburgh.
    Forster, John, B.A., London.
    Forster, Robert, 18, Summer Hill, Dub    Gate, Peter, Queen's County.
                                             Galloway, T., M.A., R. M. College.
       lin.
    Forster, Edward, Woodford, Essex.            Sandhurst.
    Forster, William, 18, Summer Hill,       Galloway, Captain James, R.N., Clifton.
                                             Gason, John, M.D., Enniskerry.
       Dublin.                               Gason, Jos. W., M.D., Stephens's Ho

    Forsyth, Robert, Advocate, Edinburgh.       spital, Dublin.
    Foster, the Hon. Baron, 3, Merrion       Gayer, A. E., 1 1, Upper Mount Street,

       Square, Dublin.                       GeaDlue,bliJn.., 104, Gardiner Street, Dublin.
    Foster, Ebenezer, jun., Cambridge.
    Foster, Francis, Madeira.                Geddes, William, Edinburgh.
    Foster, John V., Merrion Spuare, Dub     Geoghegan, Thomas, M.D., 52, York

       lin.                                     Street, Dublin.

    Foster, William, 13, Merrion Square      Geoghegan, Rev. Edward, 8, Hume
       East, Dublin.                            Street, Dublin.

    Fox, Rev. J., D.D., Provost of Queen's   George, John, Bank of Ireland, Dublin.
                                             George, Rev. Charles H., 30, Lower
       College, Oxford.
    Fox, Robert Were, Falmouth.                 Dorset Street, Dublin.
    Fox, Charles, Falmouth.                  Getty, Edward, Belfast.
    Fox, R. B., Falmouth.                    Gibb, William, M.D., Stirling.
    Fox, Rev. S. W., 96, Stephen's Green.    Gibbon, George, Brunswick Street, Dub
    Franklin, Captain Sir John, R.N.
    Frascr, R., F.A.S., Edinburgh.              lin.
    Fiaser, Captain, Portobello, Edinburgh.  Gibson, Colonel, Edinburgh.
    Fraser, William, 59, Lauriston Place,    Gibson, John, Edinburgh.
                                             Giffen, William, Edinburgh.
       Edinburgh.                            Gilford, Alexander, Edinburgh.
    Fraser, William, Abercrombie Place,      Gilby, Lieutenant, 81st Regiment, Royal

    Edinburgh.                                   Barracks, Dublin.
    Fraser, William, 9, Mansfield Place,     Gilchrist, Rev. John, D.D., Edinburgh.
                                             Gill, John E., 17, Denzille Street, Dub
    Edinburgh.
    Frascr, James, 17, Lower Dorset Street,      lin.
                                             Gill, William, Eathorne, Portsca.

    Dublin.

..
                                   ANNUAL SUBSCRIBERS.                                       21

Gillespie, Thomas, St. Andrews.                         Graves, Robert J., M.D., M.R.I.A., 9,
Gillespie, A., M.D., Edinburgh.
Gillman, John, 160, Capel Street, Dub                      Harcourt Street, Dublin.
    lin.
Gilly, Rev. W. S., D.D., Prebendary of                  Graves, J. T., M.A., 1, New Court, Inner

    Durham.                                                Temple.
Gilly, Rev. W., Wanstead.                               Graves, Rev. Richard H., D.D., Glebi.

Oilman, Lieutenant J., Stamford Hill.                      Mitchelstown.
Girvan, A., Edinburgh.                                  Gray, James, Edinburgh.
Glover, G., M.D., Edinburgh.                            Gray, David, Dollar.
Goodall, Ebenezer, 19, Molesworth                       Gray, Roderick, Enniskillen.
Street, Dublin.                                         Green, George, M.D., 14, Harcourt

Goold, Francis, 20, Merrion Square                          Street, Dublin.
   North, Dublin.
Gordon, Alexander, Fludyer Street,                      Green, John A., LL.B., 107, Lower
    London.
Gordon, Alexander, Jun., Edinburgh.                         Gardiner Street, Dublin.
Gordon, John, Aberdeenshire.                            Greene, Francis W., Kilranelagh.
Gordon, John, Secretary to the Univer                   Greene, Richard W., 49, Stephen's Green

sity, Edinburgh.                                            East, Dublin.
Gordon, Charles, Secretary to the High                  Greenough, G. B., F.R.S., L.S., G.S.,

Golradnodn,AgJ.ricWualttusroanl ,  Society, Edinburgh.      Regent's Park.
                                    Edinburgh.          Greg, W. R , Manchester.
Gordon, George, London.                                 Gregory, William, M.D., Edinburgh.
Gordon, L. L. B., Edinburgh.                            Gregory, Right Hon. William, 3, Mer
Gordon, A. F., Belfast.
Gordon, Osborne, Oxford.                                    rion Square, Dublin.
Gordon, William, Edinburgh.                             Gregory, Rev. James, Dean of Kildare,
Gordon, Major A., Croydon.
Gore, Phil. York, Dublin Castle.                            17, Upper Fitzwilliam Street, Dublin.
Gore, Francis, Stephen's Green, Dublin.                 Gregory, John, Edinburgh.
Gorman, John, M.D., London.                             Gregory, John, 17, Gloster Place, North
Gotch, Frederick W., 19, Charlemont
                                                            Dublin.
                                                        Greig, John, Lancaster.
                                                        Greham, George, 19, Rutland Square,

                                                            Dublin.
                                                        Gresley, R. K., M.A., London.
                                                        Gresson, William, 17, Dominick Street,

Street, Dublin.                                            Dublin.
Gowan, William, Advocate, Edinburgh.                    Grey, Rev. H., Edinburgh.
                                                        Grierson, William, Edinburgh.
Gracie, J. B., F.A.S., Edinburgh. ·                     Grier, John.
                                                        Griffin, Daniel, Limerick.
Gradon, Col. George, R.E., Bath.
Gradon, William,                                        Griffin, Nathaniel, Portsmouth.
Grafton, John, Cambridge.                               Griffith, Arthur Henry, 8, South Fre
Graham, Thomas, Edinburgh.
                                                           derick Street, Dublin.
Graham,  CHaupmt.phJ.reGy,.,       Edinburgh.           Griffith, W.V.,9,MountPleasant, Dublin.
Graham,                            R.N., Edinburgh.     Griffith, Walter, H., 13, Clare Street,

Graham, James, Edinburgh.                                  Dublin.
Graham, James, Limekilns, Lanark.                       Grimshaw, Robert, Belfast.
Graham, Rev. R. B., North Berwick.                      Groat, A. G., Edinburgh.
Grainger, Thomas, Edinburgh.                            Grosvenor, General, Hare Park,
Grant, G. M., Edinburgh.                                                                     Cam.

Grant, George, Liverpool.                                   bridgeshire.  LL.D.,  Shenstone  Park,
Grant, Robert, Edinburgh.                               Grove, Edward,
Grant, Robert E..M.D., Professorof Zoo
                                                           Staffordshire.
logy, London University, UpperGower                     Grove, Francis, R.N., Trinity House.
                                                        Grubb, Thomas, Parnel Place, Dublin.
Street                                                  Grut, Nicholas, Colinton.
                                                        Grundy, Rev. John, Liverpool.
Grant, William, Edinburgh.                              Guest, Edwin, M.A., Temple.
Grantham, Richard, Limerick.                            Guillemard, John, M.A., F.R.S., G.S.,
Graves, Charles, 22, Trinity College,
                                                           27, Gower Street.
Dublin.
22 ANNUAL SUBSCRIBERS.

Guinness, B. L., M.R.D.S., James's                     Hamilton, Rev. John, 7'J, Marlborough
                                                           Street,  DJu.,blFina.irholm.
   Gate, Dublin.                                       Hamilton,
Guinness, A. Beaumont, Dublin.
Guinness, Arthur L., St. James's Gate,                 Hamilton, Robert, Edinburgh.
                                                       Hamilton, R. W., Lavrock Bank.
    Dublin.                                            Hamilton, John, Edinburgh.
Guinness, Robert R., Stillorgan, Ireland.              Hamilton, James, Durham.
Guinness, Rev. W., Beaumont.                           Hamilton, Rev. R. K., Salton.
Gwatkin, Frederick, London.                            Hammick, Rev. St. Vincent, London.

                        I1.                            Handyside, Dr. P. D., Edinburgh.

Hackett, Dr., Newry.                                   Hanna, Samuel, M.A., Leinster Street,
Hackett, Michael, Book Lawn, Palmers-                     Dublin.
                                                       Hanna, Rev. W., Belfast.
ton.                                                   Harbottle, Thomas, Manchester.
Haig, Charles, 3, Warrington Place,                    Hardie, P., Haddington.
    Dublin.                                            Hardly, James, 49, York Street, Dublin.
Hailstone,   Rev.  J., Trinity College, Cam
                                                       Hardiman, James, M.R.I. A., Galway.
    bridge.        K.  C,    19,  Summer Hill,
                                                       Hardman, Edward, 4, Upper Mount
Hair, Robert,                                             Street, Dublin.

   Dublin.                                             Hardy, Philip Dinon, M.R.I. A., 37,
Hair, James, 19, Summer Hill, Dublin.

Halahan, George, 13, Stephens's Green,                    Stephen's Green, Dublin.
                                                       Hargrave, William, M.B., T.C.D., 37,
   Dublin.
Haldane, John, Haddington.                                York Street, Dublin,
Halkett, Colin, Fifeshire.                             Harper, Rev. Mr., Leith.
Hall, Elias, Derbyshire.                               Harris, William L., 46, William Street,
Hall, John, 17, Upper Gloster Street,                     Dublin.
    Dublin.                                            Harris, William Snow, F.R.S., Ply
Halt, William, 17, Upper Gloster Street,
Dublin.                                                   mouth.
Hall, I. T., Mountjov Square, Dublin.                  Hart, John, M.D., M.R.I.A., 17, Clare
Hall, James, F.G.S.,' 40, Brewer Street,                    Street, Dublin.
                                                       ' Hart, William Sterne, 17, Fitzwilliam
    Golden Square.                                        Square West, Dublin.
Hall, Sir John, East Lothian.                          Hart, Andrew S., F.T.C.D., 12, Trinity
Hall, W. D., Ross Trevor.
Hall, Major Jasper, 44, Charles Street,                    College.

    London.                                            Hartop, Henry, HoylandHall, Barnsley.
Halliday, A. H., M.A., Belfast.                        Hartness, Kev. Robert, Somersetshire.
                                                       Hartshorn, William, 86, South Great

Halpin, George, 10, Middle Mountjov                       George Street, Dublin.
HaSlptriene, t,ReDvu.bNli.n.J., Seville Place,Dublin.  Harty, William, M.D., Gardiner Street,

Hamilton, Charles William, 37, Domi-                   Dublin.

   nick Street, Dublin.                                Harvey, Alexander, Aberdeen.
Hamilton, Rev. H. P., M.A., F.R.S.                     Harvev, Sir John, 4, Fitzwilliam Square,

   L. & E., F.G.S., Wath, Ripon.                          Dublin.
                                                       Hastie, Archibald, London.
Hamilton, William Tighe, Fitzwilliam                   Hastings, Charles, M.D., Worcester.
   Square, Dublin.                                     Haughton, Wm., 28, City Quay, Dublin.
Hamilton, Arthur,            LL.D., 10, South          Hawkes, William, Birmingham.
                                                       Hawley, R. M., M.D., Edinburgh.
Cumberland Street, Dublin.                             Hawtrey, Rev.M. I. G., M.A., Liverpool.
Hamilton, Rev. James, St. Mary's Ab                    Hay, D., M.D., Edinburgh.

   bey, Dublin.    J.,  Secretary  G.S., C6,           Hay, James, Leith.
Hamilton, W.                                           Hay, Capt. James, R.N., Bilton.
                                                       Hay, Alexander, Edinburgh.
South Audley Street.                                   Hay, G. F., Edinbuigh.
Hamilton, Dacre, New Leach, Monaghan.
Hamilton, John, 13, Nassau Street, Dub

lin.                                                   Hayden, George Thomas, 32, Harcourt
Hamilton, Alexander, F.R.S. .Edinburgh.
                                                       Street, Dublin.
                        ANNUAL SUBSCRIBERS.                                                  23

Hays, John, Edinburgh.                   Hope, Sir John, Bart., Pinkie House.
Hayes, Charles, 40, Lower Mount Street,  Hope, Capt. Charles, R.N., Mayrield.
                                         Hope, John, 31, Moray Place, Edinburgh.
    Dublin.                              Hopkins, Thomas, Manchester.

Hely, Matthew, London.                   HHoorpnkbinys,onJ.,  Dr. W. L., Stamford.
Hemming, John, Cold Bath Square,                              H., M.A., London.

   London.

Henderson, Eagle, Edinburgh.             Horner,         CLeoBn.a, rJdu,n.E, diYnobrukr.gh.
Henderson, Thomas, Mackenzie Place,      Hornor,
                                         Horsfall, John, Wakefield.
    Edinburgh.                           Horsman, Edward, Advocate, Edinburgh.
Henderson, Dr. Thomas, H.E.I.C.S.        Houldsworth, T. G., Glasgow.
Henderson, Thomas, Coate's Crescent,

    Edinburgh.                           Houston, Col., Edinburgh.
Henderson, Dr. William, Aberdeen.        Houston, John, M.D., 31, York Street,
Henry, D. 92, Stephen's Green, Dublin.   Dublin.
Henwood, William I., F.G.S., Perrun      Howard,
                                         Howard,         Alfred,  67, Dame  Street,          Dublin.
    Wharf, Truro.                                                 London.
                                                         J. E.,
Hepburn, Robert, Edinburgh.              Howard, Luke, F.R.S., Ackworth, Pon-
Hetherington, George, M.D., Stephen's
                                         tefract.
    Hospital, Dublin.
Hill, George B., London.                 Howell, George, 33, Molesworth Street,
Hill, H.D., Edinburgh.                   Dublin.
Hill, James, Omagh.                      Howison, Dr., Edinburgh.
Hill, Ninian, M.D., Greenock.            Huddart, Rev. T. P., 14, Mountjoy
Hill, Charles, Mackin's Hotel.           Square, Dublin.
Hincks, Rev. T. D., LL.D., Belfast.      Hudson, Rev. Edward, 39, Upper Fitz
Hoare, Lieut. Thomas, Cullenswood.       william Street, Dublin.
Hodder, Thomas, U. S. Club, Dublin.      Hudson, Alfred, M.D., 13, Nassau Street,
Hodgkin, Thomas, M.D., 20, Finsbury      Dublin.
                                         Hudson, R., F.G.S., Clapham Common.
   Circus.                               Hughes, Rev. H. H., B.D., Tutor St.
Hodgkinson, Dr. E., Manchester.
                                            John's College, Cambridge.
Hogan, William, 15, Fitzwilliam Street,  Hughes, Rev.T. S., B.D., Cambridge.
   Dublin.                               Hughes,         JR.,ev1.0F, .DRcn.,ziBlleorrSotwresetto, wnDeusbsl.in.

Holl, W. D., Birmingham.                 HHuuggho,esJ,.  P., Oxford.
Holland, Dr., V. P. Literary and Philo   Hull, Ar. H., Donaghadce.

   sophical Society, Sheffield.          Hume, Arthur, Dawson Street, Dublin.
Holland, P. H., Surgeon, Manchester.     Hume, Dr., 53, Dawson Street, Dublin.
Holliday, W. H., Liverpool.              Hume, William, 3, Belvedere Place,
Holmes, Peter, Nenagh.                   Dublin.
Holmes, Rev. W., 5, Belvedere Place,     Hume, Hon. Baron, F.R.S.E., Edinburgh.
                                         Hume, John, 23, James Square, Edin
   Dublin.
Homan, John, M.A., 19, Trinity Col
   lege, Dublin.
Home, James, M.D., Professor, Edin       burgh.

                                         Humfrey, Henry, 14, Park Street, Dublin.
burgh.                                   Hunt, Robert, Derbyshire.
Home, A.G.,M.D.,F.R.S.E., Edinburgh.     Hunt, Percival, M.D., 14, Merrion Square,
Home,  John,   M.D.,
Hood,  P. J.,  Dublin.  Edinburgh.          Dublin.
                                         Hunter, John, Jun., Edinburgh.
Hooke, Bridges J., 17, Harcourt Street,  Hunter, John, Edinburgh.
    Dublin.                              Hunter, Rev. John, Edinburgh.
                                         Hunter, Rev. Joseph, F.S.A., 30, Tor-
Hooker, Sir W. J., Professor of Botany,

   Glasgow.                              Hurnintegrt,onJ.SqDu.,areM. .D., Edinburgh.
Hooper, W. H., Trinity College, Cam
                                         Hunter, David, F.R.S.E., Edinburgh.
    bridge.                              Hunter, David, Blackness.
                                         Hunter, William Percival, London.
Hope, Rev. Frederick, K.W., President
of the Entomological Society, 56, Up
                                         Huntingdon, The Earl of, London.
per Seymour Street.
   24 ANNUAL SUBSCRIBERS.

   Hussey, William, Glasgow.                                Jardine, James, F.R.S.E., Edinburgh.
   Hutcheson, George, Glasgow.                              Jeffcott, Sir John, Ireland.
   Hutchinson, James, Edinburgh.                            Jeffrey, Professor, Glasgow.
   Hutton, Henry, Barrister, 01, Marlbo                     Jeffrey, Hon. Lord, Edinburgh.
      rough Street, Dublin.
   Hutton, Henry, 6, Mountjoy                      Square   Jeffrey, James, jun., Glasgow.
                                                            Jerdan, W., M.R.S.L., Grove House,
      South, Dublin.                                                                           «
   Hutton, Rev. Joseph, M.A., Fairfield,                    Brompton.
                                                            Jerrard, G., Bristol.
   Glasnevin.                                               Jerrard, Frederick, Bristol.
   Hyndman, John E.. Belvedere Place,
   Dublin.                                                  Jervis, Swynfen, Roehampton.
                                                            Jessop, Frederick R., Longford.
                        I.                                  Jobson, D. W., Edinburgh.
                                                            John, H. Joy, Belfast.
   Ibbotson, John, London.                                  Johns, Alexander, Carrickfergus.
   Imlach, Henry, Edinburgh.                                Johnson, Charles, M.D., 13, Molesworth
   Inglis, James, M.D., Edinburgh.
   Inglis, Archibald, M.D., Edinburgh.                      Street, Dublin.
                                                            Johnston, Rev. Evans, 44, Harcourt
   Innes, Thomas, Aberdeen.
   IInnvnccrsa, riCtyo,smJ.o,FE.,diLnobnudrognh..              Street, Dublin.
                                                            Johnston, John, Ardee.
                                                            Johnston, W. G. R., Perth.
   Ireland, R. S., M.D., 121, Stephen's                     Johnston, Robert, Edinburgh.
      Green, Dublin.                                        Johnstone, T. M., Edinburgh.
                                                            Johnstone, R. A., Edinburgh.
   Irvine, John, H.E.I.CS., Hawick.
   Irvine, Hans.A.M., 10, Hardwicke Place,
                                                            Johnstone, Henry, Leith.
   Dublin.                                                  .loni's. Rev. F., Middleton.
            John, London.                                   Jones, Edward, M.D., Waterford.
   Irving,  John J., London.                                Jones, Theophilus, 18, Harcourt Street,
   Irving,
   Irving, Patrick, Edinburgh.
   Irving, George, Edinburgh. ·                                Dublin.
   Irwin, Rev. H., Cullenswood.                             Jones, Rev. H. L., M.A., Fellow of

   Ivory, Holmes, Edinburgh.                                    Magdalen College, Cambridge.
                                                            Jones, Rev. W., M.A., 2, Great Denmark

   Jackson, A., M.D., Gardiner's Place,                        Street, Dublin.
                                                            Jones, Edward, M.D., Waterford.

                                                            Jopp, John, Edinburgh.
   Dublin.                                                  Joy, Henrv H., 17, Mountjoy Square
   Jackson, William, 37, Clarendon Street,                  East, Dublin.
                                                            Joy, Frederick, Belfast, Ireland.
   Dublin.   JR.o, bCeartrnWar.v, oAnr. magh.
   Jackson,
   Jackson,                                                                            K.

   Jackson, S. B., Edinburgh.                               Kane, W. Joseph, Mayor Street, North
   Jacob, John, M.D., Marlborough,                             Wall, Dublin.
       Queen's County.
   Jacob, Ebenezer, County Wexford.                         Kearney, Thomas, Enfield.
   James, John, Monkstown.                                  Kcene, A. B., A.M., 6, College Green,
   James, Lieut., Ordnance Survey Office.
   James, Samuel, Monkstown.                                    Dublin.
                                                            Keene, B. D., Leeson Street, Dublin.
   James, J. P. R., M.R.S.L., Melrose.                      Keith, James, Limerick.
   Jameson, Robert, F.R.S.L. and E., Pro                    Keith, John, Edinburgh.
   fessor of Natural History, Einburgh.                     Kelland, P., Queen's College, Cambridge.
   Jameson, R. G., Edinburgh.                               Kelly, John, 2,Fitzwilliam Place, Dublin.
   Jamieson, D. W., Edinburgh.                     Jardine  Kelly, Thomas L., 93, Lower Gardiner
   Jamieson, Robert, Edinburgh.
   Jardine, John, Dumfriesshire.                               Street, Dublin.
   Jardine.SirW., Bart., F.R.S.E.,                          Kelly, William G., 9, Great Charles

      Hall.                                                    Street, Dublin.
   Jardine, Sir Henrv.                                      Kelly, Thomas, 93, Lower Gardiner

                                                               Street, Dublin.

>
                                   ANNUAL SUBSCRIBERS.                                                  ·25

Kelly, A., M.D., Perth.                               L'Amy, John, Edinburgh.
Kemmis, Henrv, 12, Merrion Square, Lang, James, London.
Dublin.                                               Langrishe, Robert, 13, Ely Place, Dublin.

Kemmis, Henrv R., 12, Merrion Square                  Langton, Thomas, Liverpool.
   East, Dublin.'                                     Langton, William, Manchester.
                                                      Latham, W. T., A.B., Co. Antrim.
Kemp, K. T., Edinburgh.                               Law, Edmund, London.
Kennedy, Evory, M.D., Master of Lying-
    in Hospital, Dublin.                              Law,  HWa.mJil.to0n3,,3U9,ppTeermSpeleymStoreuert,SDtruebelti.n.
                                                      Law,
Kennedy, G. A.M.D., 49, Summer Hill,
                                                      Law, Dr. Robert, 54, Grantly Row, Dub
    Dublin.

Kennedy, John, Edinburgh.                             lin.

Kennedy, Thomas, 2, Upper Gloucester Lawless, Hon. Edward, Maritime Black
Street, Dublin.                                       Rock.
                                                      Lawless, John, 4, Russell Street, Dublin.
Kennedy, William, Edinburgh.                          Lawrence, John, Leicester.
                                                      Lawrie, W. F. H., Edinburgh.
Kent, William J., M.R.D.S., 29, Upper                 Lawrie, W. A., Edinburgh.

    Pembroke Street, Dublin.
Ker, Henry Bellenden, F.G.S., London.
Kerin, James, 9, South Frederick Street, Lawson, W. De Lancy, Liverpool.
Dublin.                                               Lawson, Charles, Edinburgh.

Kerney, Thomas, Waterford.                            Lawson, Rev. Alexander, Criech.

Kerr, Charles J., Edinburgh.                          Leader, J. T., M.P., 8, Stratton Street,
Kerr, Rev. William, 16, Eccles Street,
                                                      Piccadilly, London.
    Dublin.                                           Leader, N. P., Merrion Square, Dublin.
Key, Charles, Edinburgh.                              Lear, Edward, 20, Dame Street, Dublin,
King, Right Hon. Lord.                                Learmouth,   John, Edinburgh.
                                                                   A., Wakefield.
King, J. W., 74, Dame Street, Dublin.                 Leatham, J.
Kirby, John, LL.D., Harcourt Street,                  Lee, N., Ufracombe.
                                                                  DJ.r.PJ.o, hMn.,AE.,diRnubgubrgyh. .
   Dublin.                                            Lee,  Rev.
Kirby, Rev. William, M.A., F.R.S.                     Lee,  Rev.

   F.G.S., Barham, Suffolk.                           Lee, James, Edinburgh.
Kirkpatrick, Rev. W. B., 71. Eccles                   Lee, Thomas, M.D., 1, Fitzgibbon Street,
Street, Dublin.                                       Dublin.

Knapp, Dr., Edinburgh.                                Leeson,  Edward      G., Queen's    County.
                                                      Leeson,  W. E.,     8, Ely Place,   Dublin.
Knight, A. J., M.D., Sheffield.                       Lees, George, M.A., Edinburgh.
Knight, Professor W., LL.D., Aberdeen.                Lees, Sir E. S., Edinburgh.
Knight, Capt., R.N., Edinburgh.
Knight, Patrick, Cookstown.                           Legh, George Cornwall, High Legh,
                                                      Cheshire.
Knight, George, Edinburgh.                            Leifchild,  John,
Knight, William, Chelmsford.                          Lendrick,           Bushy   Park.   Dublin.
Knight, Rev. T., Ford, Northumberland.                            J., 4,  Hatch  Street,
Knipe, John A., Surrey.                               Lentaigne, Jos., 12, Great Denmark Street,
Knowles, G. B., 23, Great Charles Street,             Dublin.
                                                      Lentaigne, John, 12, Great Denmark
Dublin.

Knox, Rev. Robert,Killaloe, Co. Limerick.             Street, Dublin.
Knox,Rev. Thos., Killaloe, Co. Limerick. Leslie, Charles, 40, Bride Street, Dublin.
Knox, Charles, London.                                L'Estrange, F., 39, Dawson Street, Dub

Konig,  WC.haCrle,s,LBLr.iDtis.h,  Museum.   Street,     lin.
Kyle,                              8, Clare           Leven and Melville, Earl of, Fife.
                                                      Lewins, Dr. R., Leith.
Dublin.               L. Lewis, Right Hon. T. Frankland, 17,

Labat, Hamilton, 1, Rutland Square,                      Henrietta Street, Cavendish Square.
                                                      Lewis, Rev. T. T., Aymestry, near Leo
   Dublin.  C,  118,  Lower        Baggot Street,
Labat, Dr.                                                minster.
                                                      Ley, W., B.A., Roval Barracks, Dublin.
   Dublin.                                            Liddell, Rev. T., Edinburgh.
Laing, David, F.A.S., Edinburgh.                      Lilly, John, Ardincaple.
Lambert, Alexander, Ballinrobe.
   2G ANNUAL SUBSCRIBERS.

   Limerick, W., 14, New King Street,                                                        Lyne, James, 63, Lower Mount Street,
                                                                                                Dublin.
      Dublin.
   Lindsay, H. L., Civil Engineer, Armagh.                                                   Lyne, Cornelius, 15, Hume Street, Dublin.
   Lindsay, Colonel James, Ballanis.
   Lindsay, Dr. Owen, jun., United Service                                                   LLyynone,doJc.h,S.W, K. irSktmuaicrht,aeEld. inburgh.

   Club.

   Lindsay, George, Dublin Castle.                                                                                     M.
   Lindsay, 11., Glasnevin House, Dublin.
   Lingwood, Robert, Cambridge.                                                              MacAdam, D. H., M.D., M.R.D.S., 37,
   Linton, Rev. H., M.A., Magdalene Col
                                                                                                Upper Merrion Street, Dublin.
      lege, Oxford.                                                                          Macadam, Lieut-Colonel W., Bath.
   Lister, John, Edinburgh.                                                                  Macadam, S., London.
   Little, Rev. W., Dumfriesshire.                                                           MacArthur, Dr., 30, Upper Mount
   Litton, Samuel, M.R.I. A., 10,    Lower                                                   Street. Dublin.
                                                                                             Macaulay, Dr. Alexander, Edinburgh.
      Gloucester Street, Dublin.                                                             Macaulay, Dr., Mil. Road, Royal Ho
   Litton, Edward, K.C., 37, North, Great

      George Street, Dublin.                                                                 spital, Dublin.
   Litton, Daniel, 18, Lower Mount Street,
                                                                                             Macaulay, James, junr., Edinburgh.
                                                                                             Macbean,   jDErn.eaJ.s,,
   Dublin.                                                                                   Macbrair,                 Edinburgh.
   Lizars,  BPR.reovCf.e,sJs.8o,rCLJ,oeihnMns.t,ReEr.Id.SAitnr.be, eutr,g1h9D., uFbliitnz.-                            Edinburgh.
                                                                                             MacCallum, George, Edinburgh.
   Lloyd,                                                                                    MacCann, Joseph H., 38, Stephen's
   Lloyd,                                                                                    Green, Dublin.
   william Street, Dublin.
   Lloyd, G., M.D., Leamington.                                                              MMaaccCCaauskl,ill,JoWhinll,iaLmL,.DC.a,nTaa.Cn.,,EDdiunbbluinr.gh.
   Lloyd, George, B.A., St. John's College,
   Oxford.                                                                                   MacCaul1, M.  KRienvg. stJo. wCn.,
            Thomas, M.D., Ludlow.                                                            MacCausland,                        Armagh.
   Lloyd,   W. O., M.D., Swaffham.
   Locke,                                                                                    MacClellan, Dr. Robert, Edinburgh.
   Lockhart, J. G., London.                                                                  MacCook, James, Edinburgh.
   Loddiges, George, Hackney.                                                                MacCrea, Charles, M.D., Clondalkin.
   Long, Thomas, 19, Mary Street, Dublin.                                                    MacCullagh, John, 13, College, Dublin.
                                                                                             MacDermott, E. D., Boyle.
   Long, W. 19, Mary Street, Dublin.                                                         MacDonald, John, M.D., 15, Belvedere
   Longfield,Mountfort, LL.D., Regius Pro                                                    Place, Dublin.
   fessor of Law, Trinity College, Dublin.
              Thomas, jun., London.                                                          Macdonald,  AH.o,n.EdDinubdulergyhC. , 5,
   Longman,   William, F.G.S., Somerset                                                                                                 Albany.
   Lonsdale,                                                                                 Macdonald,  Colonel W., Powder              Hall.'
                                                                                             Macdonald,
      House.                                                                                 Macdonell, James, M.D., Belfast.
   Lothian, Maurice, Edinburgh.                                                              Macdougal, Patrick, Edinburgh.
                                                                                             Macdougall, Alexander H., F.R.A.S.,
   Lover, Henry, London.
   Low, Professor David, Edinburgh.
   Low, Alexander, Edinburgh.                                                                46, Parliament Street.
   Low, Rev. Alexander, F.A.S., Reig.                                                        Macdowall, W,, Edinburgh.
   Loyd, John, County Wexford.                                                               Macdowall, John, Edinburgh.
            Denis G., Kingstown.                                                             Macdowall, W., M.D., Edinburgh.
   Luby,    Rev. Thomas, F.T.C.,  Dublin.                                                    MacDowell, George, 13, Trinity College,
   Luby,
   Lucas, William, Tommey's Hotel, Dublin.                                                      Dublin.
   Lumsden, James, Glasgow.                                                                  Macfarlane, John, Edinburgh.

   Lunell, W. P., 49, Great George Street                                                    Macfarlane, Rev. J., Edinburgh.
      North, Dublin.                                                                         Macfie, John, Dean of Guild.
   Luscombc, Sir Thomas, Royal Hotel,                                                        MacGauley, Rev. J.W.,79, Marlborough

      Dublin.                                                                                   Street, Dublin.
   Lyell, Charles, Kinnordy, Angus.
   Lvle, Acheson, 17, Gardiner's Place,                                                      MacGhee, Rev. R. J., Enniskerry.
                                                                                             MacGillicuddy, F., 8, Upper Pembroke

     'Dublin.                                                                                   Street, Dublin.
   Lynch,F.J., Stephen's Hospital, Dublin.                                                   Macgillivray, W., F.R.S.E., Edinburgh.

\
                                      ANNUAL SUBSCRIBERS.                                                      27

MacGlasken, J., 9, Upper Sackville                         Macquarie,  J.S,.,MS.cDot.s,  Greys.
                                                           Macrobio,                     Aberdeen,
   Street, Dublin.
Macintosh, George, jun., Edinburgh.                        Mactyer, Dr. W., Ayr.
Macintosh, Charles, F.R.S., Glasgow.                       Macvicar, Rev. John G., St. Andrew's.
Macintosh, Lauchlan, Edinburgh.
Mackain,  JD. .D, .G, laDsugboliwn..                       Macwhirter, Dr. Edinburgh.
Mackay,                                                    Madden, R. R., M.D., London.
MacKay, James T., M.R.I.A., 5, Cottage                     Madden,SirF., British Museum, London.
Terrace, Dublin.                                           Maddison, G., B.A., Catherine Hall,

MacKay, John, Dublin Castle.                                   Cambridge.
Mackellar,  RJe.v, .MM.Rr..,D.PSin.,ce1n3tl,anBde.resford  Magan, F., 20, Usher's Island, Dublin.
MacKenny,                                                  Magee, James, 8, Lower Mcrrion Street,

                                                           Dublin.
MaPclkaecnez, ieD,ubJ.linW. ., Edinburgh.                  Magee,ArchdeaconT.P.,LL.D.,M.R.I.A.,
                                                                       A.SqCua,re3,9,DGurbolisnv.enor
Mackenzie, Sir G. S., Edinburgh.                              Merrion                                  Place.
                                                           Magenis,
Mackenzie, T. S., Edinburgh.                               Mahon, J. R., Booterstown.
Mackenzie, Hon. Lord, Edinburgh.                           Mahony, Pierce, M.R.I.A., Merrion
Mackenzie, Right Hon. Holt, Edinburgh.
Mackenzie, James, Edinburgh.                                  Square, Dublin.
Mackenzie, Captain A. W., Edinburgh.                       Maitland, John, Edinburgh.
Mackenzie, John, Edinburgh.                                Maitland, Augustus, Edinburgh.
                                                           Major, Rev. A., 10, North Great George
Mackenzie, J. H., Edinburgh.
Mackenzie, Lieut-Colonel, Edinburgh.                          Street, Dublin.
                                                           Malcolm, Vice-Admiral Sir Pulteney,
Mackenzie, William, Edinburgh.
Mackeon, James, M.D., 1, College Street,                      Edinburgh.
                                                           Malcolm, Neil, Edinburgh.
Dublin.                                                    Malcolm, Dr., Edinburgh.
Mackinlay, David, Edinburgh.                               Malcolm, Walter, Edinburgh.
Macknight, James, Edinburgh.                               Mall, Gerard, M.D., Stephen's Green,
Macknight, Rev. Dr. T., Edinburgh.
Macknight, Thomas, Edinburgh.                                 Dublin.

Macknight, Alexander.Edinburgh.                            Mallet, Robert, M.R.I.A., 94, Capel
Maclagan, A. D..M.D., Edinburgh.
Maclaren Charles, Edinburgh.                                   Street, Dublin.
                                                           Malthus, Rev. H., Ploughhill, Devon.
MacLean, Rev. S. J., F.T.C., Dublin.                       Manning, H., Sherrard Street, Dublin.
                                                           Mansfield, N. M., College Green, Dublin.
MacLean, Rev. Wm., Newton Hamilton,                        Manson, David, Edinburgh.
                                                           Marcet, Professor.
   County Armagh.                                          Marks, Rev. E., 34, Peter Street, Dublin.
MacMeehan, Wm., 27, Blessington Street,                    Marshall, John D., M.D., Belfast.
                                                           Marshall, H., Deputy Inspector General
   Dublin.
MacMeehan, Dr., Belfast.                                       of Hospitals, Edinburgh.
                                                           Marshall, Captain D., Edinburgh.
MacNamara, Rawdon, M.R.I. A., 28,
York Street, Dublin.
Maclaren, Rev. Alexander, Dundee.                          Marshall, James, Edinburgh.
Maclean, H., Edinburgh.                                    Marshall, Walter, Edinburgh.
Maclean, C. H., M.A., 10, Lincoln's Inn                    Martin, Lieut- Colonel, Edinburgh.
                                                           Martin, George, Edinburgh.
   Old Square, London.                                     Martley, Henry, 95, Lower Gardiner
Maclean, W. Swinton, Kirkaldy.
Macmillan, James, Edinburgh.                                   Street, Dublin.

Macmillan, J., F.L.S., Culross.                            Mason, H. Monk, LL.D., King's Inn,
MacNab, W., Lower Dorset                                   Henrietta Street, Dublin.
                                           Street,

   Dublin.                                                 Mason, Captain Monck.
Macneil, Duncan, Edinburgh.                                Massey, Lord, Castle Connor.
Macneil, Alexander, Edinburgh.                             Mathews, W. P., Dublin Castle.
Maconochie, Captain, M.R.G.S., 7, Park                     Maule, Rev. T., Dunse.
                                                           Maund, B., F.L.S., Bromsgrove.
    Village East, Regent's Park, London.                   Maunsell, H., M.D., 45, York Street,
Maconochie, A. A., London.
Macpherson, Duncan, M.D. Edinburgh.                        Dublin..                      d2
2S ANNUAL SUBSCRIBERS.

Maxton, John, Edinburgh.                                    Montgomery,     JH.ugFh.,,   County Tyrone.
Maxwell, Henry, Edinburgh.                                  Montgomery,                 Edinburgh.
                      JCoh, nF,reEndcihnbSutrrgehet.,       Montgomery, Rev. Robert M., Taunton.
Mayne,    Colonel                                      Dub                  Robert,     MEd.Din.b,urMgh..R.I.A.,
Mayne,    Edward                                            Montgomery,     W. F.,
                                                            Montgomery,
lin.
Mayne, Wm., 65, Eccles Street, Dublin.
MMeeaasdeo,wRbeavn.k,J.,LoRrda,thEmduinllbinu.rgh.          18, Molcs'worth Street, Dublin.

Medwyn, Lord, Edinburgh.                                    Moore, Thomas.
Meikle, G., F.R.S., &c., Edinburgh.
                                                            Moore, Rev. J. L., F.T.C., Dublin.
                                                            More, George, Edinburgh.
Melley, Andrew.                                             Moresby, Captain F., R.N., Allerford,
Melville, Hon. A. L., Lincoln.
Melville, Alexander, F.R.S., 34, Upper                          Somersetshire.

                                                            Morgan, Sir Charles, M.D., Kildare

MeHmaeral,eyJ.  Street.      Ayr.                              Street, Dublin.

                 S., LL.D.,                                 Morrison, A. J. W., Cambridge.
                                                            Morrison, Robert, Edinburgh.
Menteith, C. G. S., M.A., F.R.S.E.,
                                                            Morrison, Robert, 12, Suffolk Street,

Edinburgh.                                                  Dublin.
Menteith,
Menzieg,   J.SaHm.u,elH, .EE.dI.iCn.bSu.r,ghE. dinburgh,    Mortimer, Michael, 60, Baggot Street,

Menzies, James, M.D., Edinburgh.                            Dublin.

Menzies, Rev. Wm.,Keir,Dumfriesshire.                       Morton, Dr.
Menzies, Rev. Robert, Hoddam.                               Moseley, Rev. Henry, B.A., Professor
Menzies, Allan, Edinburgh.
                                                               Nat. and Exper. Phil. King's College,
                                                            London, Wandsworth.
Meredith, Sir H., Bart., 25, Rutland                        Mott, W. R. S., 4, Lincoln's Inn Fields,

Square, Dublin.                                                London.
Messer,   ACdaWm.,,  M.D., Edinburgh.
Metcalf,              Lincolnshire.                         Mowbray, J. T., Edinburgh.

Meyler, Rev. Walter, Chapel House,                          Moyes, James, 28, Castle Street, Leices

Townsend Street, Dublin.                                       ter Square.

Meynell, Thomas, jun., Friarage, Yarm,                      Muir, P. B., Advocate, Edinburgh.
                                                            Muir, T., a Director Phil. Soc., Glasgow.
                                                            Muir, Rev. Wm., D.D., Edinburgh.
Yorkshire.                                                  Muir, James, Glasgow.
Millar, Andrew, Edinburgh.
Miller, W. R., London.                                      Mullins, Bernard, Fitzwilliam Square,
Miller, Lieut.-Colonel, Urquhait, Fife.
Miller, James, Edinburgh.                                   Dublin.

Milliken, Andrew, 104, Grafton Street,                      Mulvancy, Charles, 2, Grenville Street,
                                                            Dublin.
                                                            Mundell, Robert, Wallace Hall, Dumfries.
Dublin.
Milne, James, Edinburgh.
Minchin, Humphrey, 4, Fitzgibbon                            Murphy, Pat., 33, Baggot Street, Dublin.
Street, Dublin.                                             Murphy, W., M.D., Co. Meath.
M:nikcn, James Augustus, Larchgrove.                        Murphy, E. W., M.D, Lying-in Ho
Mitchell, James, M.D., New Town,                               spital, Dublin.
                                                            Murphy, Thos., 15, Dame Street, Dublin.
Mount Kennedy.                                              Murray, Sir James, M.D., 2, Merrion
Mitchell, John, jun., New Laverock Bank.                       Square South, Dublin.
Mitchell, John, M.D., Manchester.                           Murray, John jun., Albemarle Street.
Moir, David, M.D., Musselburgh.                             Murray, Rev. Dr., 9, Mountjoy Square
Moir, John, M.D., Edinburgh.                                South, Dublin.
Mollans, John, M.D., 32, Upper Glos-
   tcr Street, Dublin.                                      Murray, Peter, Edinburgh.
Molloy, Dr. T. M., Belcaire Moat.                           Murray, John, M.D., Edinburgh.
                                                                     John, Edinburgh.
Moncrieff, Lord, Edinburgh.                                 Murray,
Moncrieff, William, Edinburgh.                              Murray,  J. A., M.P., 13, Mecklenburgh

Monson,    DJr..  R.  D.,    Glasgow.                          Square, Edinburgh.
Monteith,         S.                                        Murray, William, London.
                                                                     John,  TS,unEddeirnlabnudrg. h.
Monteith, A. E., F.R.S.E., Edinburgh.                       Murray,  Rev.
                                                            Murray,
Montgomery, Lieut.-Colonel, London.                         Murray, Andrew, Edinburgh.
                             ANNUAL SUBSCRIBERS.                                                        29

Murray, William, Edinburgh.                           O'Brien, Christopher, M.D., Navan.
Murray, Wm., 36, Eccles Street, Dublin.               O'Brien, William, 5, Trinity College,

Murray, George, Edinburgh.                            Dublin.
Murtagh, Edward, 35, Paradise Row, O'Dwyer, John, 1, Fitzwilliam Place,
   Dublin.                                               Dublin.
Musgrave,             Rev. C, B.D.,  Halifax.         O'Farrell, James, Baggot Street, Dublin.
                                                      O'Farrell, John, 17, Baggot Street, Dub
MMuyrstglera, veJ.,,  Dr., Antigua.
                       M.D., Edinburgh.                  lin.
                                                      Ogilbv, W., M.A., F.L.S., 19, Gower
                             N. Street.

Nairne, Charles, Edinburgh.                           Ogilivie, James, Edinburgh.
Nalty, John, M.D., Clare Street, Dublin.                       J.P.   W., Edinburgh.
Napier, Macvey, Professor, Edinburgh.                 Ogilvy,        A., M.D., F.R.S.,  Aldrichian
Napier, William, Edinburgh.                           Ogle,
Napper, James L., Loughcrew,Co.Meath.                 Professor of Medicine, Oxford.
Nash, Richard W., 58, Upper Mount
                                                      Ogle, Henry, Eastbourne.
                                                      O'Grady, James, T. C. D., M.R.I.A., 7,
                                                      D'Olier Street, Dublin.
    Street, Dublin.                                                  DrR.e, vL. aRm.aJn.c,haC.larendon
Nash, Rev. T. E., Cove of Cork.                       O'Grady,                                          Street
Nasmyth, Robert, Edinburgh.                           O'Hanlon,
Neaves, Charles, Advocate, Edinburgh.
Needham, Thos. R., Foster Place, Dublin.                 Chapel.
Neild, William, Manchester.                           O'Hara, Charles, Annaghmore, Co. Sligo.
Neill, Patrick, Professor, F.R.S.E., Edin             O'Hara, Henry, 19, Kildare Street, Dub

burgh.                                                   lin.        Matthew   J., 147, James's
                                                      O'Kelly,
                                                         Street, Dublin.
Newbigging,           DJr..  William, Edinburgh.      Oldham, John, 91, Lower Gardiner
Newbingging,                 S., Edinburgh.
                                                         Street, Dublin.
Newbigging, G. S., Edinburgh.                         Oldham, William, 7, York Street, Dub
Newbigging, P. S. K., M.D , Edinburgh.
Nevin, Ninian, Glasnevin.                             lin.
                                                      Oliphant, Charles, Edinburgh.
Newcombe, W., Baggot Street, Dublin.                  O'Malley, Rev. T., 79, Marlborough
Newton, Abram, Seacot.
Nicholl, Wm. M.A., F.S.A., Edinburgh.                 Street, Dublin.
                                                      Omond,          J.  R.,  Edinburgh.
Nicholson, Samuel, Ballymena.                         O'Neill,  Rev.  J.  T.,  Nenagh.                  C,
Nicholson, C. A., Balrath.                                      Rev.
Nicol, Walter, Edinburgh.                             Onslow, Colonel the Hon. Thomas
Nixon, Robert Law, 121, Great Britain
                                                         Hants.
   Street, Dublin.                                    O'Reilly, Richard P., 37, Upper Sack-
Nolan, Andrew, 20, Montpellier                           ville Street, Dublin.
                                               Hill,  O'Reilly, Charles, M.D., 25, Lower Do-

   Dublin.                                               minick Street, Dublin.
Nolan, John, jun., Tuam.                              Orpen, Thomas H., M.D., 13, South Fre
Norman, John, 16, North Cumberland
                                                         derick Street, Dublin.
   Street, Dublin.                                    Orr, Alexander Smith, Herbert Place,
Nugent, Eugene, Trinity College, Dublin.
Nunn, Richard, 26, Holies Street, Dublin.                Dublin.
Nuttall, John, 5, Cottage Tenace, Bag-                Orr, James, 24, Merchant Quay, Dublin.
                                                      Osborne, Jonathan, M.D., 71, Harcourt
got Street, Dublin.
                                                      Street, Dublin.
                                                      Osborne, Edmund, Tommey's Hotel.
                              O.                      Osbrey, Gerald, M.D., 25, Molcsworth
                                                         Street, Dublin.
O'Beirne, Rev. Andrew, Enniskillen.                   O'Sullivan, Rev. Samuel, Phoenix Park,
O'Brien, Rev. James, Limerick.
O'Brien, Lucas, Dromoland.                               Dublin.      C,       55,  Aungier             Street,
O'Brien, Henry, 32, Kildare Street, Dub               Otway, Rev.

   lin.                                               Dublin.
O'Brien, John, Mountjoy Square East,                  Overend, Wilson, Sheffield.

   Dublin.
30 ANNUAL SUBSCRIBERS.

Ould, Rev.  Fielding,     sen.,  Rathmore                  Penrhyn,   EJd. wBa.r,dL, onEdaostn.Sheen.
    Glebe.                                                 Pentland,

Oweu, Jacob, 12, Cumberland Street, Penny, A. M., F.S.A., London.
North, Dublin.                                             Perkins, A. M., 21, Great Coram Street.

Owen,  TJ.hoHm.,asH.EEll.iIs.C, .PSo.,rtsmEdoiuntbhu.rgh.  Perry, James, Obelisk Park, Blackrock.
Owen,                                                      Perry, Robert, M.D., Glasgow.

Owen, Rev. Joseph B., Northampton                          Petrie, George, R.H.A., M.R.I.A., 21,
shire.
                                                              Great  GC.haRr.le, sEdSitnrebeutr, ghD.ublin".
                                                           Philips,
                                                           Phillips, Richard, F.R.S., London.

Pack, G. I., Kent.                                         Philipps, Thomas, 3, Soho Square.
                                                           Phillips, Thomas, 22, Lower Abbey
                                                           Street, Dublin.
Pagan, Dr. Samuel, Edinburgh.
Paget, G., M.A., Fellow Caius College, Philipps, Nathaniel, D.D., Moor Lodge,
                                                              near Sheffield.
   Cambridge.
Pakenham, Daniel, 58,. Henry Street,                       Philipps, N. R., Temple.
                                                           Philp, F. R., M.B., Liverpool.
   Dublin.                                                 Phipps, Robert, LL.D., F.T.C., Dublin.
Palfreyman, Luke, Secretary to the                         Pilgrim, C. H., 17, York Terrace, Re

   Literary and Philosophical Society,                     gent's Park.

Sheffield.
Palliser, John, Conrogh.
                                                           Pilkington, Henry, County Westmeath.
Palliser, Hugh, 4, Kildare Street, Dublin. Pillans, James, F.R.S.E., Professor of
Palmer, Abraham, 38, York Street, Dub                      Humanity, Edinburgh.
lin. Pillans, James, Edinburgh.
                                                           Piiu, William H., 22, William Street,
Parke, Henry, Architect, London.                              Dublin.
Parker, George, Glasgow.
Parkinson, W. H.                                           Pim, James, jun., M.R.I. A., 35, College
ParneU, R., Devonshire.
Parsons, Rev. H., Arundel.                                    Green, Dublin.

                                                           Pim, Richard, 25, City Quay, Dublin.
Pasley, Joseph, 3, Lower Rutland Street, Pim, Jonathan Greenwood, 35, College
Dublin.                                                    Green, Dublin.
Paterson, George, M.D., Edinburgh.                         Pitcairn, John, Perthshire.
Paterson, Dr. James, Edinburgh.                            Pitcairn, John, M.D., Edinburgh.
Patten, John, Sandymount.                                  Playfair, W. H., F.R.S.E., Edinburgh.
Patterson, Henry, M.D., 32, Blessington                    Pollock, Matthew, William Street, Dub

Street, Dublin.                                            lin.
                                                           Pomeroy, Hon. William, 27, Merrion
Patterson, James, Edinburgh.
Patrick, William, Edinburgh.                               Street, Dublin.
                                                           Ponton, William, Edinburgh.
Patrick, John, Edinburgh.
Patton, Captain Robert, R.N., Fareham, Ponsonby, Hon. Frederick, Morrison's
Hants.                                                     Hotel, Dublin.
                                                           Poole, R., M.D., Edinburgh.
Paul, Robert, Edinburgh.                                   Pooler, Robert, 14, Summer Hill, Dublin,
Paul, William, Edinburgh.
Peacock, Captain Thomas, 11, Harcourt Popham, John, M.B., 2, Trinity College,
Street, Dublin.                                            Dublin.
Pearsall, T. I., Literary and Philosophi                   Porter, W. H., 18, Kildare Street, Dublin.
   cal Society, Hull.                                      Porter, William, Barrister, Blackball

Pearson, A., M.D., London.                                    Place, Dublin.
                                                           Porter, John, 22, Lincoln's Inn Fields,
Pearson, Alexander, Edinburgh.                                London.

Peebles, J. H., M.D., Edinburgh.                           Potter, John, Manchester.

Peers, Charles, Chislehampton.
Peile, Robert.jun., M.R.D.S., Stephen's Potter, Richard, jun., Broughton, near

Green, Dublin.                                             Manchester.
Pellew, Very Rev. G., D.D., Dean of Potter, Thomas, Manchester.
Norwich.                                                   Potter, John, Manchester.
                                                           Powell, Rev. John, Naas.
Penfold, Rev. James, C'hcam, Surrev.
                                     ANNUAL SUBSCRIBERS.  31

Power, Robert F., 56, Great Dominick             Rathbone, Wm. Scrippletown, County
                                                    Dublin.
   Street, Dublin.
Power, William John, Serpentine Avenue,          Rathbone, Henry Jun., Dunsinea, County
                                                    Dublin.
   Dublin.
Prendergast, John P., 78, Stephen's              Rattray, Robert, Edinburgh.
                                                 Rattray, Dr. R. G., London.
   Green, Dublin.                                Ravenshaw, E., 9, Lower Berkeley Street,
Preston, Captain H., R.N.
Preston, Charles, London.                            London.
Price, John R., Queen's County.                  Read, Alexander, President of the College
Priece, R. M., Carnarvon.
Pridie, P. H., Edinburgh.                           of Surgeons, 16, York Street, Dublin.
Primrose,             B. F., Dalmeny Park.       Read, Henry, 5, Mountjoy Square North,
            HJo.,n.  Surgeon, Balsham, Cam
Prince, J.                                           Dublin.
                                                 Read, T. F. R., University College, Ox
   bridgeshire.      J.  W..F.G.S.,  Edinburgh.
                                                     ford.
Pringle, Major
Pringle, Alexander, F.A.S.                       Reed, W. H., M.D., 63, Upper Baggot
Prior, Rev. H. E., 12, Merrion Square,               Street, Dublin.

   Dublin.                                       Reid, David B., M.D., F.R.S.E., Edin
Prior, Rev. Thomas, D.D., Trinity Col
                                                     burgh.
   lege, Dublin.                                 Reid, Alexander, Edinburgh.
Pritchard, Andrew, London.                       Reid, John, M.D., 1, Pleasant View, Rock
Prittie, Henry, Corville, County Tip-
                                                     Road, Dublin.
Propuetr,arWy.illiam, M.D., F.R.S., 40, Sack-
                                                 Reid, J. S., Edinburgh.
   ville Street, London.                         Reid, Robert, M.D., M.R.I. A., 16, Bel
Prower, Rev. John, Purton, Wilts.
Pullen, Joseph, M.A., Corpus Christi                 vedere Place, Dublin.
                                                 Reid, George, M.A., Glasgow.
   College, Cambridge.                           Reid, Dr. John, Edinburgh.
Purdie, Robert, M.D., Edinburgh.                 Rennie, Matthew B., Whitehall.
Purdie, William, M.D., Edinburgh.                Rennie, Professor, King's College, Lon
Purdon, Thomas, South Circular Road,
                                                      don.
     Dublin.
' Purdy, Richard, Lower Ormond Quay,             Renny, William, M.D., M.R.I. A., Army

     Dublin.                                         Medical Office,5, Dame Street, Dublin.
                                                 Renny, H. L., Royal Hospital, Dublin.
 Pursell, J. W., M.D., Edinburgh.                Renton, Robert, Edinburgh.
                                                 Renton, Rev. H., M.A., Kelso.
 Purser, John, M.R.D.S., Rathmine's              Renton, John, Pennycuik.
                                                  Rhind, William, Edinburgh.
   Castle.                                        Rhind, John, Edinburgh.
Purves, John, Haddington,                         Rhind, Macduff, Edinburgh.
Pyper, Hamilton, Advocate, Edinburgh.             Richardson, Rev. William, Magdalene
Pyper, William, M.A., Edinburgh.
                                                     College, Oxford.
                              Q.                  Richardson, John, 11, Lothian Street,
Quin, John William, 101, Stephen's
                                                      Edinburgh.
   Green, Dublin.                                 Richardson, John, 1, Fetter Row, Edin
Quintin.T., HatleyPark, Cambridgeshire.
                                                     burgh.
                              R.                  Richardson, John, London.
Radcliffe, John, Pembroke Street, Dublin.         Richardson, Thomas, Newcastle.
                                                  Richmond, Theophilus, Edinburgh.
Radcliffe, Right Hon. John, LL.D.,
   M.R.I.A., Hume Street, Dublin.                 Riddell, Sir J. M., Bart., F.R.S.E., Edin

Rae, Peter, Edinburgh.                                burgh.
Raikes, Henry, B.A., Chester.                     Ringley, Jeffries, M.R.D.S., Dublin.
Ramage, Dr. James, Edinburgh.                     Ritchie, H., Cloncairn, Maybole.
Ramage, John, Aberdeen.                           Ritchie, Rev. Dr. David, Edinburgh.
Ranken, William, Ayr.                              Roberts, Arthur, Bath.
Ransford, Charles, M.D., Edinburgh.                Roberts, Richard, Manchester.

                                                  RRoobbeerrttss,onJ,ohJ.n,CY, oArbke.rdeen.
32 ANNUAL SUBSCRIBERS.

Robertson, J. A., M.D., F.R.S.E., Edin                 Russell, George, jun., Milltown Park.
burgh.                                                 Russell, John, 8, Stafford Street, Edin
Robertson, William, Edinburgh.
Robertson, George, Edinburgh.                             burgh.
Robertson, Henry, Callender.                           Rutherford, John, 7, Rutland Square,
Robertson, William, jun., Edinburgh.
Robertson, Major D., Edinburgh.                           Dublin.
Robinson, Frank, Lower Mount Street,                   Rutherford, Thomas.                Square,
                                                       Rutherford, M. B., Merrion
   Dublin.
Robinson, Captain H., R.N.                                Dublin.
                                                       Rutherfurd, Andrew, Edinburgh.
Robinson, Hartatonge, 27, Temple Street,               Rutherfurd, John, Edinburgh.
    Dublin.
                                                       Rvnd, Francis, M.R.I A., 19, Ely Place,

Robinson,  JCoh,nM, oArnthinlognseid.e,                Dublin.
Robson.T.
                                         Edinburgh.                        F.R.S., Limerick.
Roche, William, 6<J, Grafton Street,                                       D., F.T.C.D., M.R.I.A.,
Dublin.                                                Sabine,   Captain,
Roche, William N., 23, Gardiner's                      Sadleir,  William

Place, Dublin.                                            College, Dublin.
Roche, Benjamin, B.A., 5, Lower Mount                  Sanders, Gilbert, 3, Lombard Street.
Street, Dublin.                                        Sanders,Thomas,jun., M.D., Edinburgh.
                                                       Sanders, James, M.D., Edinburgh.
                                                       Sandeman, D. G., Springland.
Roe, Henry, 2, Fitzwilliam Square, Dub                 Sanderson, Alexander, Castle Anderson.
   lin.                                                Sanderson, John, Edinburgh.
                                                       Sandes, Rev. Dr. S.F.T.C.D., College,
Roe, Robert, Sansouci, Booterstown.
Rofe, John, Birmingham.
Rogers, Colin, M.D., London.
                                                       Dublin.
                                                       Sandford, E. D., Edinburgh.
Rolland, Adam, jun., Edinburgh.
                                                       Sang, John, Kirkaldy.
Romilly, Henry, 5, Raymond's Buildings,                Sang, Edward, Edinburgh.
    Gray's Inn.                                                     Richard S., M.D., London.
                                                       Sargent,
Roper, Charles, 26, Park Street, Dublin.               Sargent,     Rev. J. P., 47, North Great
Rose, Rev. H., M.A., Brington, North                   George Street, Dublin.
                                                       Sass, Henry, 6, Charlotte Street,
   ampton. '

Rose, Rev. H. J., B.D., Fellow of St.
John's. College, Cambridge.
Rose, Alexander, Edinburgh.                               Bloomsbury.
Rose, Capt. H., Edinburgh.                             Saull, W. D., F.G.S., Aldersgate Street.
                                                       Saumarez, Richard, F.R.S., Bath.

Ross, Capt. David, Ross Trevor.                        Savage, Marmion, Mecklenburgh Street,
Ross,  C. C,
Ross,         TR. oCss,. F.R.S.,         London.          Dublin.   C,  Bristol.
       Capt.
Ross, A. M., M.D., Edinburgh.                          Savage, J.
                                                       Sawers, Simeon, Dunbar.
Ross, Capt. Sir John, R.N.                             Scarth, Pillans, Leith.
Ross, George, jun., Edinburgh.
Roupell, G. L., M.D., 15, Welbeck                      Scanlan, Maurice, Rogerson's Quay,

                                                       Dublin.
                                                       Schoales,Georjre, 3, Hume Street, Dublin.
    Street.                                       13,  Scot, David, M. P., Professor, St. Andrews.
                                                       Scott, James, Merrion Square South,
Rowan, Rev. Ar. B., M.R.I. A.,
                                                       Dublin.
    South Frederick Street, Dublin.                    Scott, William, Edinburgh.
                                                       Scott, Major-General Sir H., 9, Bel
Rowan, Hill Wilson, Ballinglass.
Royle, J. F., 62, Berners Street.
Russell, John, Whittlesea.
Russell, James, V.P.R.S.E., Professor
                                                       vedere Place, Dublin.
   of Clinical Surgery, Edinburgh.                     Scott, Dr. John, Edinburgh.
Russell, James, M.D., Edinburgh.                       Scott, Alexander, F.A.S., Edinburgh.
Russell, John, 9, Shandwick Place,
                                                       Scott, Sir William, Edinburgh.

   Edinburgh.                                          Scott, R., Edinburgh.
Russell, Colonel James, Selkirkshire.                          J.   E., B.A.,
Russell, Ven. Archdeacon, Castle Blaney.               Scott,  J.,  Melbie,     Dublin.
Russell, Claude, Edinburgh.                            Scott,                  Shetland.
                                                       Scott, C. A., Edinburgh.
                            ANNUAL SUBSCRIBERS.                                               33

Scouler, John, Professor R.D.S., Dublin.         Slack, Wm. R., 3, Annadale, Dublin.
Scrivens, William,                               Slade, Hercules, Sligo.
                         Hastings.               Slight, James, Engineer, Edinburgh.
Scrymgeour, J. S.,       Glasgow.                Small, John, Librarian to the Univer
Seddon, Professor, London.
Sedgwick, Rev. James, M.A., Fresh
water, Isle of Wight.                               sity, Edinburgh.
                                                 Small, Thomas G., M.B., 5, Merrion

Segrave, Patrick, 6, Harcourt Street,            Row, Dublin.
   Dublin.                                       Smellie, William, Leith.
                                                 Smith, Henry William, 12, Mountjoy
Selkirk, Earl of, Christ Church, Oxford.
Seller, Dr. Wm., Edinburgh.                      Square West, Dublin.
Semple, James, Donnybrook.                       Smith,  John,   M.D., Edinburgh.
Semple, John jun., Assembly House,               Smith,          London.
                                                         J. G.,
   William               Dublin.                 Smith, James, F.R.S., Glasgow.
Seton, Sir  WSt.reCet,,  Advocate,               Smith, John, youngest, Glasgow.
Shand, John, Edinburgh.             Edinburgh.
                                                 Smith, James, Deaneton.
                                                 Smith, Jos., Manchester.
Sharpe, George, Kilkenny.                        Smith, John, Glasgow.
Sharpey, William, M.D., Edinburgh.               Smith, Robert William, Trinity College,
Shaw, Sir Robert, Bushy Park, Dublin.
Shaw, Robert, Bushy Park, Dublin.                Dublin.
Sheckleton, Robert, M.D., 15, Gloster            Smith, Sebastian, 1, Connaught Place
                                                 West, Edgeware Road.
Street, Dublin.                                  Smith, Archibald, Edinburgh.
Shee, James, 32, North Cumberland
                                                 Smith,  TDhro. mJ.asP, yNe,ewLcoansdtolen..
   Street, Dublin.                               Smith,
Sheehan, R., M.R.I.A., 27, Parliament            Smith, Aquila, M.D., M.R.I. A., 1-20,

   Street, Dublin.                                  Lower Baggot Street, Dublin.
                                                 Smith, Francis Wm., 25, Baggot Street,
Shepherd, Rev. Wm., LL.D., Gateacre,

   Liverpool.                                    Dublin.
Short, Rev. Thomas, B.D., Trinity Col
Siblebgaeld, ,OxJ.forRd.., M.D., F.R.S.E., Edin  Smith, George, 64, Baggot Street, Dub
                                                    lin.
   burgh.
Sibson, F., Cockermouth.                         Smith, John, M.D., Stillorgan.
Sillery, C. D., Edinburgh.                       Smith, Colonel Webber.
Silvertop, Colonel Charles, F.G.S., 55,          Smith, William, F.G.S., Hackncss,

Lower Grosvenor Street.                             Scarborough.
                                                 Smylcy, Josias, 7, Ely Place, Dublin.
Simpson, Steph., 2, Lower Gloster Street,        Smyth, Charles S., A.B., Edinburgh.
   Dublin.                                       Smyth, Captain John, R.E., 36, Lower
                                                 Gloster Street, Dublin.
Simpson, T., Liverpool.                          Smyth, Spelman, junr., Edinburgh.
Simpson, James, Edinburgh.                       Smyth, Rev. Mitchell, Edinburgh.
Simpson, Wm., Thames Bank, Pimlico.              Smyth, William.
Simpson, James, M.D., Edinburgh.                 Solly, S. R., F.R.S., Surge Hill, King's
Simson, James, M.D., Edinburgh.
Sinclair.Rev.John, F.R.S.E., Edinburgh.             Langley, Herts.
Sinclair, William, Edinburgh.                    Somerville, Rev. John, D.D., Currie.
Sinclair, Captain John, Edinburgh.               Somerville, Captain James, Scots Greys.
Sinclair, Veitch, Edinburgh.                     Souter, F. G., Edinburgh.
Sinclair, Alexander, Edinburgh.                  Southwood, Thomas Allen, Devonport.
Singer, Paulus E., 1, Temple Street,
    Dublin.                                      Sparkes, Robert, M.D., M.R.I. A., 25,
Singleton, John, Co. Clare.                         Suffolk Street,  DCu,bl2in7.,
Sisson, William, 17, Parliament Street.          Spear, Frederick                  College    Green,
Sivright, T., F.R.S.E., Edinburgh.
Skair, Alexander, London.                           Dublin.
Skene, William, Edinburgh.
Skinner, Rev. G., M.A., Tutor of Jesus           Spelman, J. S., Edinburgh.
                                                 Spence, Henrv, London.
                                                 Spence, R. H., Hull.
                                                 Spence, W. B., London.
                                                 Spence, John, Edinburgh.
College, Cambridge.
   3-1 ANNUAL SUBSCRIBERS.

   Spence, William, F.R.S.                             Stokes, Whitley, M.D., 16, Harcourt
   Spens, William, Edinburgh.
   Spens, Thomas, M.D., Edinburgh.                     Street, Dublin.
   Spens, Nathaniel, Edinburgh.
   Spittal, Dr. Robert, Edinburgh.                     Stone, George, Edinburgh.
   Spittal, Dr. John, Glasgow.                         Stone, Dr. Thomas, Edinburgh.
                                                       Stoney, George, B.A., Trinity College,
                                                          Dublin.
   Spittal, James, Edinburgh.                          Storey, Lieut.-colonel, Charlemont Fort,
   Sprot, Thomas, F.R.S.E., Edinburgh.
   Sprot, Mark, Lankirk.                                  Armagh.
   Sprott, James, Edinburgh.                           Stothard, Lieutenant, R.E., Cavan.
   Stack, Thomas, 6, Trinity College, Dub              Stowell, Rev. W. H., 33, Richmond

                                                       Street, Dublin.
                                                       Strickland, Charles, Lough Glynn House.
      lin.                                             Strickland,  WN.illCia,mM, .LAo.u,gLhinGclyonlnn   House.
   Stack, Rev. Jos., F.T.C., Dublin.                   Strickland,                                       College,

   Stafford, Rev. J. H., Liverpool.
   Stamer, Captain.
   Stanger, Wilham, Wisbeaeh.                          Oxford.

   Stanhope, Hon. Sir F., Denzille Street,             Stringer, Joseph.      M.R.I.A,                   26, Dor
                                                       Strong, Rev. Charles,
   Dublin.
   Stanley, Thomas W., 19, Trinity Col                    set Street, Dublin.
      lege, Dublin.                                    Studholme, John, Kingmore, Carlisle.
   Stanley, Sir Edward, Rose Vale, Raheny.             Sturgo, John, Kilkenny.
   Stannus, Rev. T. B., Edinburgh.                     Stutchbury, Samuel, Bristol.
   Staples, Sir Thomas, Bart., 9, Merrion              Sullivan, James, M.B., 51, Lower Gar

      Square, Dublin.                                     diner Street, Dublin.
   Stark, John, F.R.S.E., Edinburgh.                   Sweeney, Daniel, A.B., 13, King's
   Stark, James, Edinburgh.
   Steele, Thomas, Dublin Coffee-house.                   Street, Dublin.
   Steele, Wilkinson, F.S.A., Edinburgh.               Swift, John, 5, Sackville Garden, Dublin.
   Stephenson, John, 18, Margaret Street,
                                                       Swinny, Rev. George, 9, Kildare Street,
                                                       Dublin.
                                                       Swinton, Archibald, Edinburgh.
      Cavendish Square.                                Swinton, James, Edinburgh.
'  Stephenson, Rev.L.,   Fellow  of St.      John's    Syer, Lieutenant Richard, Kiddington,

   College, Cambridge.                                    near Haverhill, Suffolk.
   Steuart, Robert, Alderston.                         Sykes, Lieut.-colonel W. H.. F.L.S.
   Steuart, Robert, M.P., Treasury.
   Stevelly, Professor John, Belfast.                     F.G.S.,47, Albion Street, Hyde Park.
                                                               Professor, Edinburgh.
   Stevelly, Rev. Robert, 5, Charlemont                Syme,   John, M.R.D.S., Glanmore,                 Co.
      Mall, Dublin.                                    Synge,
                                                       Wicklow.
   Stevens, Dr. Robert, Ely.                           Synnott, Mark, 19, Trinity College,
   Stewart, James R., 6, Leinster Street,
                                                       Dublin.
   Dublin.

   Stewart, Rev. Andrew, Erskine.                                         T.
   Stewart, A. P., Erskine.
                                                       Tagart, Rev. E., 33, Porchester Terrace,
   Stewart, William, Edinburgh.
   Stewart, John, M.D., Edinburgh.                        Bayswater.
   Stewart, Captain John, Linlithgow.                  Talbot, Lord D. E., Mallahide Castle.
   Stewart, M. S., Stevenson.                          Tattershall, Rev. Thomas, A.M., Cam

   Stewart, David, Edinburgh.                          bridge.
                                                       Tawse, Andrew, Edinburgh.
   Stirling, James, Island Bridge, Dublin.             Taylor, Rev. G., Manchester.
   St. Leger, Noblet,  CC,arrLiocnk-doonn-.  Shannon.  Taylor, Hibbert, M.D., Dumfries.
   Stoddart, Captain
   Stokes, Rev. Henry, Carlow.                         Taylor, Peter, Manchester.
   Stokes, John W., 93, Stephen's Green,                        Ph.  M.,  Harold's Cross,                Dublin.
                                                       Taylor,       W.,  Edinburgh.
      Dublin.                                          Temple,  J.
                                                       Tench, Gerrald, 55, Harcourt Street,
   Stokes, Wm, M.D., M.R.I.A., 50, York
                                                          Dublin.
   Street, Dublin.                                     Tennant, William, Dollar.
   Stoker, William, 21, York Street, Dublin.
                             ANNUAL SUBSCRIBERS.                                                              3:,

Tennent, James Emerson, M.P., Belfast,                Todd, R. B., M.D., 26, Parliament

  J.25, Duke Street, Westminster.                         Street, London.
                                                      Todhunter, Jos., 3, College Green, Dub
Tennent, T., Belfast.
Thackery, Colonel, Royal EngineerOffice.                  lin.  James J., F.G.S.,                 Edinburgh.
Thatcher, John, M.D., Edinburgh.                      Torrie,
Thom, John, Glasgow.                                  Torry, Rev. John, Cupar, Angus.
Thomas, Morgan, R.A., Island Bridge.                  Townley, R. G., M.A., M.P., Cam
Thompson, H., St. John's College, Cam
                                                      bridgeshire.
                                                      Townsend,                   Newbury, Berks.
bridge.                                               Townsend,  GJe. orgCe,,     M.A., Milton, Ox

Thompson, George, Edinburgh.                          fordshire.
Thompson, Dr. John, Glasgow.                          Townsend, Richard, Cove of Cork.
Thompson, Alexander, Cambridge.                       Traill, Professor T. S., Edinburgh.
Thompson.William, V.P. Nat. Hist. Soc.                Traill, Rev. Wm., Haddington,
                                                      Traquaire, William, Edinburgh.
    Belfast.                                          Trench, Rev. Fred., M.A., Mackncy,
Thompson, William, 12, Fitzwilliam
                                                      Ballinasloe.
ThoSmqupasreon,WeRs.t,J.,DuKbirlibny. Hall, Borough-  Trevelyan, Sir John.
                                                      Trevelyan, Ar., Wellington, Northum
    bridge.
Thomson, Thomas, Glasgow.
Thomson, Rev. James, Muchart.
Thomson, Rev. Adam, Fenwick.                             berland.
Thomson, Rev. A. junr., Hawick.                       Trezevant, O. A., London.
                                                      Trimmer, Joshua, Carnarvon.
Thomson, Dr. Robert, Glasgow.                         Trotter, Rev. Alex., Northumberland.
Thomson, Thomas, Clitheroe.                           Trueman, Thomas, Flintshire.
Thomson,  AJonhdrne,w,juEndri.n, buRrgohy.al
Thomson,                                      Bank,   Trulock, Rev. George, Skreen Rectory,

                                                      Sligo.
   Edinburgh.                                         Tucker, Lieutenant Henry, Ordnance
Thomson, John, Royal Bank Buildings,
   Edinburgh.                                         TucSkuervr,eyHO. ffJi.c,e,   Dublin.
Thomson, Thomas, Royal Bank Build                                                 Bermuda.
                                                      Tudor, William, Bristol.
                                                      Tulloch, Professor, Aberdeen.
   ings, Edinburgh.                                   Tuohill, Richard, M.D., 4, Clare Street,
Thomson, Allen, M.D., Edinburgh.
Thomson, John, M.D. Edinburgh.                        Dublin.
Thomson, William, M.D., Edinburgh.
Thomson, Robert, Advocate, Edinburgh.                 Turnbull, George, Edinburgh.
Thomson, Rev. John, F.R.S.E., Edin                    Turnbull, David, Edinburgh.
                                                      Turner, Charles, R.A., Island Bridge,

   burgh.                                                 Dublin.
                                                      Turner, Rev. Jos., D.D., 23, Talbot
Thomson, James, LL.D., Professor,

    Glasgow.                                              Street, Dublin.
Thomson, George, Leith.                               Turner, Rev. Wm., Sec. Lit. and Phil.
Thorburn, Rev. D., M.A., Leith.                       Soc., Newcastle.
Thorp, D. L., B.M., Leeds.                            Turner, Jos. junr., 23, Trinitv College,
Thurnall, W., Duxford, Cambridgeshire.
Thwaite, Joshua, Edinburgh.                              Dublin.
Tickell, Edward, 10, Clare Street, Dublin.            Turner, Wm., M.D., Melrose.
Tims, Robert, 85, Grafton Street, Dublin.                       JR.evW. .W, mPr.o, fejusnsor.r,,
Tims, Richard Moore, Grafton Street,                  Turner,                                     Halifax.
                                                      Turner,                                     Edinburgh.

    Dublin.                                           Twigg, James, Linen Hall, Dublin.
Tobin, Sir John, Liverpool.                           Twigg, Paul, 11, Eden Quay, Dublin.
Tod, Charles, Exchange Court, Dame                    Twycross, Edward, 69, Dame Street,
                                                      Dublin.

    Street, Dublin.                                   Tyers, Thomas, London.
Tod, John, Edinburgh.
Tod, James, Sec, S.A., Edinburgh.                                                  U.
Tod, Walter, Selkirkshire.                            Upcher, Henry, B.A., Shcringham Hall.

Todd, Rev. J. H., F.T.C.D., M.R.I.A.,                    Norfolk.
Dublin.
                                                                                       e2

                                                                                                                   /-
,M) ANNUAL SUBSCRIBERS.

Urquhart, Adam, Edinburgh.                        Waterhouse, G. R., Trinity College,
Urquhart, Rev. George, M.A., Magdalen
                                                     Cambridge.
   College, Cambridge.                            Watford, A., Engineer, Cambridge.
                                                  Waters, George, Kilkenny.
                         V.                       Watson, Captain Charles Hope, R.N.,

Yachell, Rev. G., Chaplain at Macao.                  Edinburgh.
Vance, Robert, Belfast.                           Watson, H. G., Edinburgh.
Vandeleur, Lieut. -general Sir John, 7.           Watson, Alexander, Edinburgh.
Merrion Square, Dublin.                           Watson, James, M.D., Edinburgh.
Vandeleur, Rev. Wm., Johnstown Glebe.             Watson, John, Edinburgh.
Vallange, Dr., Portobello, lulinburgh.            Watt, M. R., Newington.
           John,                                  Waugh, John, Edinburgh.
Veevers,  Dr. A.  J2.,,  Kildare Place,  Dublin.  Webster, Charles, Boswell Court, Carey
Veitch,                   Galway.
Verachoyle, Archdeacon, Killala.                      Street, London.
Vignoles, Dr. Charles, M.R.I. A., Dublin          Webster, W. M., 60, Chancery Lane,
Castle.
Vignolles, Charles B., 5, VVestland Row,              London.
                                                  Weld, Charles, 24, Upper Merrion Street,
    Dublin.
                                                      Dublin.
Vose, Dr. J. A., Liverpool.                       Wellbeloved, Rev. Charles, V.P. Yorks.

                         W.                           Philos. Soc., York.
                                                   Wellesley, Hon. Capt. Wm., London.
Wakelv, Rev. W. G., Ecclcs Street,                 Wemyss, Dep. Com. Gen., Edinburgh.
                                                   West, Wm., Sec. Lit. & Phil. Soc.
   Dublin.
Waldie, John, Hendersyde Park, Kelso.                  Leeds.
Walker, R. Cotton, 6, Upper Glostcr                West, Wm., Rath Ballinacarrigy.
   Street, Dublin.
Walker, William, Edinburgh.              6,        Westmacott, H., Sculptor, Edinburgh.
Wall, Rev. Dr., S.F.T.C, Dublin.                   Wheatstone, Professor, 20, Conduit
Wall, Rev. D. H., Kingstown.
                                                       Street.
Wall, Rev. R. H., M.A., M.R.I. A.,                 Whelun, William, Watling Street.
   Hume Street, Dublin                             Whigham, D., Edinburgh.
Wall, Garrett, Foster Place, Dublin.     4,        Whigham, Robert, Edinburgh.
Wallace, Wm., M.D., M.R.I.A.,
                                                  Whishaw, John, F.R.S., London.
   Great Denmark Street, Dublin.                   White, Francis, V.P. College of Surgeons,
Wallace, W. Baily,junr., 68, Blessington
Street, Dublin.                                       42, Dawson Street, Dublin.
                                                   White, Adam, Leith.
WTallace, Thomas, 72, Stephen's Green,
                                                  White, C. J. Kildare Street Club.
Dublin.
                                                   White, A., InspectorGeneralof Hospitals,
Wallace, Dr. Thomas.
Wallace, Wm., M.A., Professor of Ma               WhPiotertsoidbee,llo,ReEvd.inJb.urgNh.., 3, Fitzwilliam

thematics, Edinburgh.                                  Square, Dublin.
Wallace, Rev. Dr., Whitekirk.                      Whiteside, Jas., M.A., 9, Lower Pem
Wallace, Lewis, Edinburgh.
Walsh, Rev. H. G., M.A., Claybrook,                    broke Street, Dublin.
                                                   Whitley, Rev. John, D.D., Galway.
Leicestershire.                                    Whitwell, Stedman, 22, Sussex Street,
Walsh, Thomas, 1, Dominick Street,
                                                       University of London.
    Dublin.                                        Whyte, Thomas, Edinburgh.
Warburton, Elliot, 64, Lower Mount                 Whytock, Richard, Edinburgh.
                                                   Wightman, Rev. Dr., Kirkmahoe.
Street, Dublin.                                    Wilbraham, George, M.P., 56, Upper

Wardlaw, Peter, Whitehill.                             Sevmour Street.
Warren, R. B., K.C., 55, Leeson Street.            Wilk'ie, Sir David, R. A., D.C.L., 7, Ter

Dublin.                                                race, Kensington.
Waterfield, Rev. R., B.D., Fel. Emmn.              Wilkie, Rev. Dr., Edinburgh.
                                                   Wilkins, T. W., M.D., Edinburgh.
Col., Cambridge.                                   Wilkinson, John, London.
                                                   Wilkinson, Matthew, Edinburgh.
                   ANNUAL SUBSCRIBERS.                                                       37

Wilkinson, A. O., V. P. Lit. and Phil.   Wood, Sir Alexander, K.C., &c.,
    Soc., Islington.                     M.R.G.S., Colonial Office, London.
Willand, Rev. Wm., Cloyne.                          WThileliaVmer,yEdRinebv.urgJ.h,. D.D.,
Willans, Wm., 6, Bridge Street, Dublin.  Wood,                                               Dean
Williams, John D., 14, North Cumber      Wood,
                                         of Ely, Master of St. John's College,
    land Street, Dublin.
                                         Cambridge.
Williams, Robert C, 37, Baggot Street,   Wood,      AJ.ndGr.e, wE, dMinb.Dur.,gh.Edinburgh.
    Dublin.                              Wood,
                                                    JW. .SR.,.,CaMnaanacnhePsatrekr,.
Williams, W. J., Lieutenant R.N., Cork.  Wood,
Williamson, Andrew, Monkstown.           Wood,
Willis, Rev. A., M.A., Shrewsbury.                                                      Edinburgh.
                                         Wood, Walter, A.M., Edinburgh.
Willoughby, Wm., Berwick.                WWooooddh, oJuoshen, ,T.EdJ.i,nbBuerglfha.st.
Wilmot, Samuel, 120, Stephen's Green
    West, Dublin.                        Woodlock, Wm., 21, Lower Ormond
Wilmot, Edward, Cullenswood House,
                                             Quay, Dublin.
Dublin.                                  Woodward, Rev. Francis B., Mount
Wilmot, John, Birmingham.
Wills, Antony, 17, Upper Gardiner        Street, Dublin.

                                         Woollcombe, Henry, President of the
Street, Dublin.                              Plymouth Instit., Plymouth.
Wilson, Rev. Dr., M.R.I.A., Kildare      Wordsworth, Charles, M.A., Christ

Street, Dublin.                          Church, Oxford.
Wilson, John, 116, Grafton Street, Dub   Wray, Rev. H., D.D., F.T.C.D., 4, Mer-

   lin.                                     rion Square     JN.,orNthe,wcDasutbleli-nu.nder-Line.
                                         Wright, Rev.
Wilson, Rev. J., M.A., Queen's College,  Wright, Thomas, M.D., 26, Great Ship
Oxford.
Wilson, Robert, A.M., Fitzwilliam
                                         Street, Dublin.
                                         Wright, T. G., Edinburgh.
    Square, Dublin.                      Wright, Thomas, 6, Great Charles Street,
Wilson, Wm., Littleton, Stillorgan.      Dublin.
Wilson, John, M.A., Lincoln's Inn.       Wright, H. G., Edinburgh.
Wilson, Lieutenant, Richmond Barracks,   Wylie, John, M.D., Madras.

Dublin.
Wilson, Thomas, M.R.D.S., 6, Mount-
  joy Square East, Dublin.               Wyndbam, Major, Scots Greys.
Wilson, John, 6, Northumberland Street,  Wynne, Lieutenant, Boyle.
                                         Wyon, Wm., Royal Mint, London.

Edinburgh.
Wilson, James, 51, Melville Street,

   Edinburgh.                            Yelloly, John, M.D., F.R.S., Woodton
Wilson, R. Sym., Royal Bank, Edin           Hall, Norfolk.

burgh.                                   Yorke, Grantham, Hampton Court Pa
Wilson, Andrew, Edinburgh.
Wilson, John, R. E. Civil Depdt, Edin        lace.  J. G.,  A.B.,         26, Trinity College,
                                         Young,
    burgh.
Wilson, W. H., Professor, Edinburgh.        Dublin.
Wilson, William, Edinburgh.              Young, William, Edinburgh.
Wilson, T. W., M.D., Edinburgh.          Young, James, Glasgow.
Wilson, John, jun., Seacroft, Hull.      Young, David, Aberdeen.
Wilson, the Rev. Professor, Oxford.      Young, A. R., M.D., Paisley.
Witham, H. T. M., Lartington, Barnard    Young, Andrew, Edinburgh.
                                         Yule, Major William.
Castle.                                  Yule, Robert, Edinburgh.
Wolfe,
         Stephen,  Serjeant-at-law,
M.R.D.S., Ely Place, Dublin.
                                         Yule, Henry, Edinburgh.

                   rrintedby Richard Taylor, Red Hon Court, Fleet SltcM.
s
II

   32101 049356353

