Report of the ... Meeting of the British Association for the Advancement
of Science.

British Association for the Advancement of Science.
London : J. Murray, 1834-1917.
http://hdl.handle.net/2027/njp.32101076796323

                                          Public Domain, Google-digitized
                                              http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google

                                                          We have determined this work to be in the public domain,
                                                          meaning that it is not subject to copyright. Users are
                                                          free to copy, use, and redistribute the work in part or
                                                          in whole. It is possible that current copyright holders,
                                                          heirs or the estate of the authors of individual portions
                                                          of the work, such as illustrations or photographs, assert
                                                          copyrights over these portions. Depending on the nature
                                                          of subsequent use that is made, additional rights may
                                                          need to be obtained independently of anything we can
                                                          address. The digital images and OCR of this work were
                                                          produced by Google, Inc. (indicated by a watermark
                                                          on each page in the PageTurner). Google requests that
                                                          the images and OCR not be re-hosted, redistributed
                                                          or used commercially. The images are provided for
                                                          educational, scholarly, non-commercial purposes.
jftbrarg of
               .llhtrl n 7}->-.r

REPORT

SIXTH MEETING

BRITISH ASSOCIATION

ADVANCEMENT OF SCIENCE;

                    HELD AT BRISTOL IN AUGUST 1836.

                                  VOL. V.

                  LONDON:

     JOHN MURRAY, ALBEMARLE STREET.

                                                   1832
CONTENTS.

Objects and Rules of the Association                              Pig*
Officers and Council                                                 v
Treasurer's Account
Reports, Researches, and Desiderata                               viii
Address of Dr. Daubeny
                                                                    xi
                                                                   xii
                                                                  xxi

REPORTS ON THE STATE OF SCIENCE.

Report on the Present State of our Knowledge with respect to      1
   Mineral and Thermal Waters. By Charles Daubeny, M.D.,

   F.R.S., M.R.I. A., &c, Professor of Chemistry and of Botany,

   Oxford

Observations on the Direction and Intensity of the Terrestrial     97
   Magnetic Force in Scotland. By Major Edward Sabine, R.A.,      121

  F.R.S., &c
Report on North American Zoology. By John Richardson,

   M.D., F.R.S., &c

Supplementary Report on the Mathematical Theory of Fluids.

  By the Rev. J. Challis, Plumian Professor of Astronomy in

the University of Cambridge                                       225

Comparative View of the more remarkable Plants which charac

terize the Neighbourhood of Dublin, the Neighbourhood of

Edinburgh, and the South-west of Scotland, &c. ; drawn up

for the British Association, by J. T. Mackay, M.R.I. A., A.L.S.,

&c, assisted by Robert Graham, Esq., M.D., Professor of Bo

tany in the University of Edinburgh                               253

flN a 2

* "V & 65380
IV CONTENTS.

                                                                      Page

Comparative geographical notices of the more remarkable Plants
which characterize Scotland and Ireland. By J. T. Mackay,
M.R.I.A., A.L.S., &c
                                                                      257

Report of the London Sub-Committee of the Medical Section on

the Motions and Sounds of the Heart                                   261

Second Report of the Dublin Sub-Committee on the Motions and

Sounds of the Heart                                                   275

Report of the Dublin Committee on the Pathology of the Brain

and Nervous System                                                    283

Account of the recent Discussions of Observations of the Tides

   which have been obtained by means of the grant of Money
   which was placed at the disposal of the Author for that purpose

  at the last Meeting of the Association. By J. W. Lubbock, Esq. 285

Observations for determining the refractive Indices for the Standard  288
   Rays of the Solar Spectrum in various media. By the Rev.

  Baben Powell, M.A., F.R.S., Savilian Professor of Geometry

   in the University of Oxford

Provisional Report on the Communication between the Arteries

and Absorbents on the part of the London Committee.  By
Dr. Hodgkin                                                289

Report of Experiments on Subterranean Temperature, under the

direction of a Committee, consisting of Professor Forbes, Mr.
W. S. Haeris, Professor Powell, Lieut. -Col. Sykes, and Pro
fessor Phillips, (Reporter)
                                                                      291

Inquiry into the Validity of a Method recently proposed by George

B. Jerrard, Esq., for Transforming and Resolving Equations of

Elevated Degrees : undertaken at the Request of the Association

by Professor Sir W. R. Hamilton                                       295
          OBJECTS AND RULES

                  THE ASSOCIATION.

                            OBJECTS.

The Association contemplates no interference with the ground
occupied by other Institutions. Its objects are, --To give a

stronger    impulse and a   more systematic direction to scientific
inquiry,                    intercourse of those who cultivate Sci
          --to promote the

ence in different parts of the British Empire, with one another,
and with foreign philosophers,-- to obtain a more general atten

tion to the objects of Science, and a removal of any disadvan

tages of a public kind, which impede its progress.

                           RULES.

                                              MEMBERS.

   All Persons who have attended the first Meeting shall be

entitled to become Members of the Association, upon subscri
bing an obligation to conform to its Rules.

   The Fellows and Members of Chartered Literary and Philo
sophical Societies publishing Transactions, in the British Em
pire, shall be entitled, in like manner, to become Members of
the Association.

   The Officers and Members of the Councils, or managing
Committees, of Philosophical Institutions shall be entitled, in
like manner, to become Members of the Association.

  All Members of a Philosophical Institution recommended by

its Council or Managing Committee, shall be entitled, in like
manner, to become Members of the Association.

   Persons not belonging to such Institutions shall be elected by
the General Committee or Council, to become Members of the
Association, subject to the approval of a General Meeting.
VI RULES OF THE ASSOCIATION.

                                         SUBSCRIPTIONS.
    The amount of the Annual Subscription shall be One Pound,
to be paid in advance upon admission ; and the amount of the
composition in lieu thereof, Five Pounds.
    Subscriptions shall be received by the Treasurer or Secre

Iftaries.

        the annual subscription of any Member shall have been in
arrear for two years, and shall not be paid on proper notice, he
shall cease to be a member ; but it shall be in the power of the
Committee or Council to reinstate him, on payment of arrears.

                                         MEETINGS.
    The Association shall meet annually, for one week, or longer.
The place of each Meeting shall be appointed by the General
Committee at the previous Meeting ; and the Arrangements
for it shall be entrusted to the Officers of the Association.

                                GENERAL COMMITTEE.
    The General Committee shall sit during the time of the
Meeting, or longer, to transact the business of the Association.

It shall consist of all Members present, who have communicated

any scientific Paper to a Philosophical Society, which Paper
has been printed in its Transactions, or with its concurrence.

    Members of Philosophical Institutions, being Members of
this Association, who may be sent as Deputies to any Meeting
of the Association, shall be Members of the Committee for that
Meeting, the number being limited to two from each Institution.

                              SECTIONAL COMMITTEES.
    The General Committee shall appoint, at each Meeting,
Committees, consisting severally of the Members most conver
sant with the several branches of Science, to advise together for
the advancement thereof.
    The Committees shall report what subjects of investigation
they would particularly recommend to be prosecuted during the
ensuing year, and brought under consideration at the next
Meeting.
    The Committees shall recommend Reports on the state and
progress of particular Sciences, to be drawn up from time to
time by competent persons, for the information of the Annual
Meetings.
                          RULES OF THE ASSOCIATION.

                     COMMITTEE OF RECOMMENDATIONS.
   The General Committee shall appoint at each Meeting a Com
mittee, which shall receive and consider the Recommendations
of the Sectional Committees, and report to the General Com
mittee the measures which they would advise to be adopted for
the advancement of sciences

                                 LOCAL COMMITTEES.
    Local Committees shall be formed by the Officers of the Asso
ciation to assist in making arrangements for the Meetings.
    Committees shall have the power of adding to their numbers
those Members of the Association whose assistance they may
desire.

                                              OFFICERS.

   A President, two or more Vice-Presidents, two or more Se

cretaries, and a Treasurer, shall be annually appointed by the
General Committee.

                                               COUNCIL.

   In the intervals of the Meetings the affairs of the Association

shall be managed by a Council, appointed by the General Com
mittee. The Council may also assemble for the dispatch of
business during the week of the Meeting.

                           PAPERS AND COMMUNICATIONS.
    The Author of any paper or communication shall be at liberty
to reserve his right of property therein.

                                               ACCOUNTS.
    The Accounts of the Association shall be audited annually, by
 Auditors appointed by the Meeting.
         OFFICERS AND COUNCIL, 1836-7.

   Trustees (permanent). -- Charles Babbage, Esq. R. I. Murchi-
son, Esq. John Taylor, Esq.

President. --The Most Noble the Marquis of Lansdowne.
   Vice-Presidents. --The Most Noble
ampton. Rev. William D. Conybeare.    theJ.  Marquis of North
President elect. --The Earl of Burlington.
                                             C. Prichard, M.D.

   Vice-Presidents elect. --The Right Rev. The Bishop of Nor
wich. Rev. William Whewell. John Dalton, LL.D. Sir
Philip Egerton, Bart.

  General Secretaries. --Rev. W. V. Harcourt. R. I. Mur-
chison, Esq.
Assistant General Secretary. -- John Phillips, Esq., York.
  Secretaries for Liverpool. --James S. Traill, M.D. J. N.

Walker, Esq. Wm. Wallace Currie, Esq.
Treasurer. --John Taylor, Esq., 14, Chatham Place, Black-

friars.                     »

Treasurer to the Liverpool Meeting. -- Samuel Turner, Esq.

Council. -- Professor Christie, Woolwich. Professor Daniell,
London. G. B. Greenough, Esq., London. H. Hallam, Esq.,
London.  R.   HHuottdognk,inE, sqM.,.DL.o,ndLoonn.doPnr.ofeJs.soWr .SiLruWbb.Hocakm, ilEtsoqn.,,
Dublin.   T.

London. Professor Lindley,     LDorn.doRno.gePtr,oLfeosnsdoornO. weJn.,  London.
Professor Powell, Oxford.                                                Robison,
Esq., Edinburgh. N. A. Vigors, Esq., London. William
Yarrell, Esq., London.

   Secretary to the Council. -- Rev. James Yates, 49, Upper
Bedford Place, London.

   Local Treasurers. -- Dr. Daubeuy, Oxford. Professor Hens-
low, Cambridge. Dr. Orpen, Dublin. Charles Forbes, Esq.,
Edinburgh. Jonathan Gray, Esq., York. George Bengough,
Esq., Bristol. Samuel Turner, Esq., Liverpool. Rev. John
James Tayler, Manchester. James Russell, Esq., Birmingham.
William Hutton, Esq., Newcastle on-Tyne. Henry Woollcombe,
Esq., Plymouth.
      OFFICERS OF SECTIONAL COMMITTEES.

OFFICERS OF SECTIONAL COMMITTEES AT THE
                      BRISTOL MEETING.

SECTION A. MATHEMATICAL AND PHYSICAL SCIENCE.

SPVreieccesrie-dPteraenrsite.ids--.e--nRtseP.vro.--feWSssiilroliraDmF.oBrWbreehwse.swteeWlrl.. .  Sir W. R.   Hamilton.
Jerrard, Esq.                                                                                     S. Harris,  Esq. F. W.

      SECTION B.-- CHEMISTRY AND MINERALOGY.

President. -- Rev. Professor Cuniming.
SVeiccere-Ptareriseisd.e--ntDs.r.--ADprj.ohDna.ltonD. r.  Dr. Henry.
Esq.                                                      C. Henry.                                    W. Herapath,

      SECTION C. GEOLOGY AND GEOGRAPHY.

PVriecsei-dPenrte.si--deRntesv. .--DRr..  Buckland.                                               G. B. Greenough, Esq.
                                   R. I.  Griffith, Esq.
J.(FoSer cGreetoagrriaepsh. y--)          Murchison, Esq.
                                  Wm.     Sanders, Esq.                                           S.   Stutchbury,  Esq.
T. Torrie, Esq.

      8ECTION D. -- ZOOLOGY AND BOTANY.

PVriecsei-dPerenst.id--enRtse.v.--PRroevfe. ssFo.r  Henslow.                                          Dr. J. Richardson.

                                                    W. Hope.

ProSfeecsrseotrariReosy. --le.John Curtis, Esq. Professor Don. Dr. Riley.
S. Rootsey, Esq.

               SECTION E. MEDICAL SCIENCE.

President. -- Dr.                 --RoDgre.t.Bright.      Dr. Macartney.
Vice-Presidents.
Secretary. -- Dr. Symonds.

                                  SECTION F. STATISTICS.

President. -- Sir Charles Lemon, Bart.
Vice-Presidents. --               JH..     Hallnm, Esq.                                           Dr.  Jerrard.
Secretaries.-- Rev.                       E. Bromby.      C.                                       B.  Fripp, Esq.  James

Heywood, Esq.
                              OFFICERS OF SECTIONAL COMMITTEES.
                            SECTION G. MECHANICAL SCIENCE.

        PVriecsei-dPerenst.id--enDtas.vi--esMG.ilJb.eBrtr,unEesiq, . Esq. John Robison, Esq.

          Secretaries.-- G. T. Clark, Esq. T. G. Bunt, Eiq. Wil

        liam West, Esq.

                        CORRESPONDING MEMBERS.
          Professor Agassiz, Neufchatel. M. Arago, Secretary of the
       Institute, Paris. Professor Berzelius, Stockholm. Mr. Bow-

       ditch, Boston, North America. Professor De la Rive, Geneva.
       Baron Alexander von Humboldt, Berlin. Professor Moll,
        Utrecht. Professor OZrsted, Copenhagen. Jean Plana, Astro
       nomer Royal, Turin. M. Quetelet, Brussels. Professor Schu
        macher, Altona.

V

             like
                    BRITISH                 ASSOCIATION           FOR                 THE  ADVANCEMENT                       OF SCIENCE.

                                 TREASURER'S             ACCOUNT                      from 30th Junb,    1835 to 15th July,         1836.

                                 RECEIPTS.                                                                                   PAYMENTS.

Balance ill hand from last year's Account                        £.                  E».   penses of Meeting at Dubliu                                                             *.£ 5 79  8 9 0 0 00000 1 0 6 0./. 4 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 :> 0 (» 8 6 0 0 7
                                                                509               16                                      3                                               286
Compositions from 205 Members                                    995        d. 3 0 0 0 0   Disbursements
                                                               1158      0100     10                              by                                                        01 IS 10
                                                                     8            16                              Local Trcasuri/s                                        DIG
                                                                   12                                                                                                     230
Subscriptions 1835, 1158 do                                                                Purchase of £1000 in per cent. Consols
                                                                 127                                                                                                      163
Ditto                                                              72                      !!}Salaries to Assistant
                                                                   78                          months to Christmas                                                        105
                                                                                           Psid the " Committee                                                             CO
         1836, 12 do                                             215                                              Secretary         and Accountant,                         r.o
                                                                                                                  last
Arrays                   831834,do                                                                                                                                           10
                      6
        '.                                    1J                                                                  for the Discussion of Tide Obser                          17
Dividend on £2500 in       per cent, consols,        --. « ,,                                                                                                               19
                                                       52 10
12 months to January last                                                                  vations"                                                                  [ J1   19

Ditto   on £3500,     mouths to July                                        070033         Pcid the Committee     on Brit's!: and Foreign Ichthyology                              16
                                                                         2405                           Ditto     on Lun-r Nutation                                         2.")
                                                                   90
Receive on account  of Sale of Reports, 1st vol., 2nd edit.                                Paid Win. Snow Harris for Ti/crr lometrical Experiments                                 13
         Ditto                                               0                                                                                                            517 16
         Di.to        ditto                 2nd vol                                        Paid Executors of George Harvey                 ditto
         Ditto                                                                                                                                                              25
         Di.io        ditto                 3rd vol                                        Paid Professor Johnston, Pruitiug Chemical Constants                             18
                                                                                                                                                                            47
                      ditto Lithographs                                                    Paid Rev. W. Vernon Karcoutt, Experiments on Long-1                              43
                      ditto Notices of Communications
                                                                                           continued Heat                                                                 607 13

                                                                                           Paid Rev. Baden Powell, Experiir.entB on Refraction
                                                                                                                                                     9
                                                                                           Paid Committee         on Subterrauean   Temperature,  herno-'I
                                                                                               meters
                                                                                                                                                                     f 690
                                                                                           Paid Mr. H. CarUsle, Experiments         on the Heart, 1831
                                                                                           Paid Dr. Nolan                    ditto                             1835

                                                                                           Paid Professor Phillips, Rain Gauges                                                              317 S
                                                                                           Paid Richard Taylor, Printing Reports, 3rd vol., 1500 Copies

                                                                                                 Ditto,           Sundry Printing

                                                                                         J.Paid        W. Lowry, Engraving for Reports, 3rd vol
                                                                                   4       Paid                                         ditto
                                                                                                 Sundry Expenses on Publishing
           }                                                                               July        Ditto      on Rep /rts, 2nd vol

J.                                                                                               15, Balance in the Banker's hands                540      59

                                                                                                       Ditto      Treasurer's                     57

                                                             £3185 15                                  Ditto      Local Treasurer's                        18
                                                                                                                                                                   -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    34
FRANCIS     BAILY,                                                                                                                                                    £3185 15

R. HUTTON,                   Auditor).

        W. LUBBOCK                                                                                     [Signed,]  JOHN TAYLOR,                 Treaturer.
xii SIXTH RKPOllT -- 183G.

The following Reports on the progress and desiderata of dif
  ferent branches of science have been drawn up at the request

  of the Association, and printed in its Transactions.

On the progress of Astronomy during the present century, by
G. B. Airy, M.A., Astronomer Royal.
                                               Tides,   by J. W.
   On the state of our knowledge respecting
Lubbock, M.A., Vice-President of the Royal Society.
   On the recent progress and present state of Meteorology, by
James D. Forbes, F.R.S., Professor of Natural Philosophy, .
Edinburgh.
   On                     of our knowledge    of the Science   of Ra
diant  the present state   Baden Powell,                      Savilian
       Heat, by the Rev.                    M.A., F.R.S.,
Professor of Geometry, Oxford.

   On Thermo-electricity, by the Rev. James Cumming, M.A.,
F.R.S., Professor of Chemistry, Cambridge.
   On the recent progress of Optics, by Sir David Brewster,

K.C.G., LL.D., F.R.S., &c.
   On the recent progress and present state of Mineralogy, by
the Rev. William Whewell, M.A., F.R.S.
   On the progress, actual state, and ulterior prospects of Geology,
by the Rev. William Conybeare, M.A., F.R.S., V.P.G.S., &c.
   On the recent progress and present state of Chemical Science,

by James F. W. Johnston, A.M., Professor of Chemistry, Dur
ham.

  J.On the application of Philological and Physical researches to

the History of the Human Species, by C. Prichard, M.D.,
F.R.S., &c.

   On the advances which have recently been made in certain

branches of Analysis, by the Rev. G. Peacock, M.A., F.R.S., &c.
   On the present state of the Analytical Theory of Hydrostatics
and Hydrodynamics, by the Rev. John Challis, M.A.,F.U.S.,&c.
On the state of our knowledge of Hydraulics, considered as a
branch of Engineering,                         F.R.S.,
                          bv  George  Rennie,           &c.   (Parts
I. and II.)
On the state of out knowledge respecting the Magnetism of
the Earth, by S. H. Christie, M.A., F.R.S., Professor of Mathe
matics, Woolwich.

   On the state of our knowledge of the Strength of Materials,
by Peter Barlow, F.R.S.
   On the state of our knowledge respecting Mineral Veins, by
John Taylor, F.R.S., Treasurer G.S., &c.
           DESIDERATA, ETC.                                XU1

   On the state of the Physiology  of the Nervous System,  by
William Charles Henry, M.D.
   On the recent progress of Physiological Botany, by John Lind-
lcy, F.R.S., Professor of Botany in the University of London.

   On the Geology of North America, by H. D. Rogers, F.G.S.
   On the philosophy of Contagion, by Wm. Henry, M.D.,F.R.S.
   On the state of Physiological Knowledge, by the Rev. William
Clark, M.D., F.G.S., Professor of Anatomy, Cambridge.
   On the state and progress of Zoology, by the Rev. Leonard
Jenyns, M.A., F.L.S., &c.
On the theories of Capillary Attraction, and of the Propagation
of Sound as affected bv the development of Heat, by the Rev.

John Challis, M.A., F.R.S., &c.
   On the  state of the science  of Physical Optics,  by the Rev.
                                 Natural Philosophy,  Dublin.
H. Lloyd,   M.A., Professor of

On the state of our knowledge respecting the application of
Mathematical and Dynamical principles to Magnetism, Electri
city, Heat, &c, by the Rev. Wm. Whewell, M.A., F.R.S.

   On Hansteen's researches in Magnetism, by Captain Sabine,
F.R.S.
On the state of Mathematical and Physical Science in Bel
gium, by M. Quetelet, Director of the Observatory, Brussels.
    On the present state of our knowledge with respect to Mine

ral and Thermal Waters, by Charles Daubeny, M.D., F.R.S.,
M.R.I.A., &c, Professor of Chemistry and of Botany, Oxford.
Observations on the Direction and Intensity of the Terres
trial Magnetic Force in Scotland, by Major Edward Sabine,

R.A., F.R.S., &c.
   Report on North American Zoology, by John Richardson,
M.D., F.R.S., &c.

  J.Supplementary report on the Mathematical Theory of Fluids,

by the Rev. Challis, Plumian Professor of Astronomy in the
University of Cambridge.
Comparative view of the more remarkable Plants which cha
racterize the Neighbourhood of Dublin, the Neighbourhood of
E&thdecin,bBuarirstgsisihsh,tedaAnsdbsyothcieRaotSibooenur,tth-bGwyreaJsh.taTomf. ,SMcEaosctqkla.a,nyd,M, &M.Dc..R.,;.Id.PArrao.w,fenAssu.oLpr.Sfo.o,rf
Botany in the University of Edinburgh.
XIV SIXTH REPORT -- 1836.

The following Hcports of Researches undertaken at the re
  quest of the Association have hern published, viz.

Report on the comparative measurement of the Aberdeen
Standard Scale, by Francis Baity, Treasurer U.S., ike.
On Impact upon Beams, by Eaton Hodgkinson.
Observations on the Direction and Intensity of the Terrestrial
Magnetic   FJo. rcCe.  in Ireland,               H. Lloyd, Capt. Sabine,
and Capt.              Ross.        by the Rev.

   On the Phaenomena usually referred to the Radiation of Heat,
by H. Hudson, M.D.
    Experiments on Rain at different elevations, by Wm. Gray,
jun. and Professor Phillips.
   Hourly observations of the Thermometer at Plymouth, by

W. S. Harris.
   On the Infra-orbital Cavities in Deers and Antelopes, by A.
Jacob, M.D.
On the Effects of Acrid Poisons, by T. Hodgkin, M.D.
On the Motions and Sounds of the Heart, by the Dublin Sub-
Committee.

On the Registration of Deaths, by the Edinburgh Sub-Com

mittee.

Report of the London Sub-Committee of the Medical Section,
of the British Association on the Motions and Sounds of the

Heart.
Second Report of the Dublin Sub-Committee on the Motions
and Sounds of the Heart. (See vol. iv. p. 243.)
   Report of the Dublin Committee on the Pathology of the

Brain and Nervous System.
Account of the recent Discussions of Observations of the

Tides which have been obtained by means of the grant of Money
J.which was placed at the disposal of the Author for that purpose at

the last Meeting of the Association, by W. Lubbock, Esq.
Observations for determining the refractive Indices for the
Standard Rays of the Solar Spectrum in various media,
                                                          by the
Rev. Baden Powell, M.A., F.R.S., Savilian Professor of  Geome
try in the University of Oxford.
Provisional Report on the Communication between the Arteries
and Absorbents on the part of the London Committee, by Dr.
Hodgkin.
Report of Experiments on Subterranean Temperature, under
the direction of a Committee, consisting of Professor Forbes,
Mr. W. S. Harris, Professor Powell, Lieut. Colonel Sykes, and
Professor Phillips, (Repcrter.)
             DESIDERATA, ETC.                                                    XT

   Inquiry into the Validity of a Method recently proposed by
George B. Jerrard, Esq., for Transforming and Resolving Equa
tions of Elevated Degrees : undertaken at the request of the
Association by Professor Sir W. It. Hamilton.

The following Reports and Continuations of Reports have
  been undertaken to tie drawn up at the request of the Asso
  ciation.

    On the progress of Electro-chemistry and Electro-magnetism,
so far as regards the experimental  part of the subject, by P. M.

Roget, M.D., Sec. R.S.
   On the Connection of Electricity and Magnetism, by S. H.
Christie, F.R.S., &c.

    On the state of knowledge on the Phaenomena                      of  Sound,  by

the Rev. Robert Willis, M.A., F.R.S.

    On the state of our knowledge respecting the relative level of
Land and Sea, and the waste and extension of the land on the,
east coast of England, by R. Stevenson, Engineer to the North
ern Lighthouses, Edinburgh.
andOnSitrheWB. oJt.anHyoookferN, oMrt.hD.A, mPerorifceas,sobry  Jacob Greene, M.D.,

                                                                of Botany, Glasgow.
  J.On the Geographical Distribution of Insects, and particularly

the order Coleoptera, by Wilson, F.R.S.E.
    On   the influence of Climate upon Vegetation, by the Rev.
J.  S.
        Henslow, M.A., F.L.S., Professor of Botany, Cambridge.
   On circumstances in Vegetation influencing the Medicinal

Virtues of Plants, by R. Christison, M.D., &c.
    On Salts, by Professor Graham.
    Gn the progress of Medical Science in Germany, by Dr.

Graves.

   On the Differential and Integral Calculus, by the Rev. G.
Peacock, M.A., F.R.S.
   On the present .state of our knowledge of the Phenomena of
Terrestrial Magnetism, by Captain Sabine, F.R.S.

   On the Geology of North America, by H. D. Rogers, F.G.S.,
Professor of Geology, Philadelphia.
   On the Mineral Riches of Great Britain, by John Ta- lor,
F.R.S. G.S.
    On the Methods of Printing for the Blind, hv the Rev. Win-
Taylor, F.R.S.
   On the Statistics of Dukhun, by Lieut.-Colonel Sykes, F.R.S.
            PhJ.ysFic.aWl .anJodhnCshtoenm,icFa.lR.PSr.operties  of
   On the                                                            Dimorphous
Bodies, by
XVI SIXTH REPORT -- 1836.

Researches recommended, and Desiderata noticed by the Com

            mittees of Science at the Bristol Meeting*.

                              ASTRONOMY.
   Mr. Lubbock's proposition for the construction of new em
pirical lunar Tables was referred to a Committee, consisting of
Mr. Lubbock, the Astronomer Royal, Mr. Baily, Professor
Rigaud, Professor Challis, and Professor Sir W. R. Hamilton;
and Mr. Lubbock was requested to report to the next Meeting
on the best mode of carrying it into effect.

                                   WAVES.
   An experimental investigation on Waves, having particular

reference to the manner in which they are produced, the effect

J. J.of wind, and the effect of the form of the canal, was entrusted

to Mr. S. Russell and Mr. Robison, and a sum not ex

fceeding 100/. was placed at their disposal for the purpose .

                           METEOROLOGY.

The Meteorological Committee was requested to endeavour
                           observations of                 and Wet-bulb
to establish  hJo,uarlnyd  a grant of 30/.  the Barometer  their disposal
Hygrometer                                  was placed at
for this object.

                                   OPTICS.

   The sum of 150/. was placed at the disposal of a Committee,
consisting of the Rev. W. V. Harcourt, Dr. Turner, and Dr.
Faraday, for the purpose of experimental investigations into the
fabrication of glass §.

                            CHEMISTRY.
   A series of Experiments on the comparative analysis of Iron

   * In addition to those contained in vol. v.
   t This inquiry is in progress.
   J Mr. W. Snow Harris nas commenced these researches at Plymouth.
   § Mr. Harcourt has heen sometime occupied in this investigation.
      DESIDERATA, ETC.                                           XV11

in the different stages of its manufacture, with the hot and cold
blast, was entrusted to Dr. Dalton, Dr. Henry, and Mr. H. H.
Watson.

   Dr. Turner was requested to undertake experiments on the
Amount of Heat evolved in Combustion and other kinds of
Chemical Action.

   Dr. Daubeny suggested the following points with reference
to Mineral Waters, as peculiarly worthy of investigation by
British Chemists.

    1 . The chemical composition and physical properties of the water
drunk in places subject to peculiar endemics, as Goitre.

    2. The nature of the organic matter present in hot springs.
    3. The evolution of Nitrogen from springs of ordinary temperature,
as well as from thermal ones.
    4. The state in -which Alkali exists in certain thermal waters.
    5. The means by which Silica is held in chemical solution.
    6. The geological relations of the country in which thermal waters
are found.
   7. An exact estimate of their temperature, taken with accurate instru
ments at different periods of the year, together with the amount of
water discharged in a given time.
    8. Is Carbonate of Potash, in reality, a very rare constituent of
thermal waters, or may not the Carbonate of Soda have been often
mistaken for it ?

   Dr. Dalton and Mr. Wm. West' were requested to investigate
the presence and proportion of substances present in minute pro
portions in atmospheric air, according to a plan proposed by
the latter.

      GEOLOGY.

   The Committee for procuring data on the question of the
permanence of the relative level of Land and Sea on the coasts
of Great Britain and Ireland, received a grant of 500/. in order
that the subject might be satisfactorily investigated, by ascer
taining with great accuracy the differences of level of a number
of points in two straight lines at right angles to one another,
and terminating on the sea-coast*.

   The attention of observers was directed to the discovery of
Plants of any kind in strata older than the coal formation.

   The observation of divisional planes in Stratified Rocks,
(cleavage, joints, fissures, &c.) in relation to the surfaces of

vol.             · These measures  are in course  of execution.
                                       b
      v.-- 1836.
xviii  SIXTH REPORT -- 183C.

stratification, the chemical quality, and molecular aggregation
of the rocks, and other circumstances, was recommended for the
purpose of procuring accurate data on this part of physical

Geology.
   The Officers of the Ordnance Survey in Ireland were requested

to make such excavations in the Peat Mosses of Ireland, as
may tend to ascertain the relative periods at which they were
deposited ; and the sum of 50/. was placed at the disposal of
Colonel Colby for this object.

                       NATURAL HISTORY.

    Mr. R. Ball and Mr. Thompson, of Belfast, were requested
 to prepare an exact catalogue of the Animals inhabiting Ireland.

   A Committee was named, consisting of Professor Henslow,
 Dr. Daubeny, Mr. James Yates, Dr. Henry, and Dr. Dalton,

 to institute Experiments on the growth of Plants under Glass,
and excluded from the external Air, on the plan of Mr. N. G.

Ward (described in the Transactions of the Society of Arts),

and the sum of 25/. was placed at their disposal for the purpose.
    Mr. R. Ball was requested to investigate the mode by which Mol-

lusca, Annelida, and other marine Invertebrata excavate rocks.
    Dr. Richardson mentioned the following desiderata in North

American Zoology :
     1 . Fauna of Mexico, California, New Caledonia and Russian America.
    2. Local Lists of the Animals of the Atlantic States of America, such

 as the one prepared by order of the Government of Massachusetts for
 that State.

    3. Accurate Comparisons of the Skeletons and of Living Specimens
of European and American Species supposed to be common to the
two countries.

    4. Monographs of the various Families of North American Mamma
lia, including notices of the habits of the Species, from personal obser
vation only; and particularly of the Bats, Seals, Deer, and Pouched Rats.

    5. Comparison of the Northern and Woodland Rein Deer.
    6. An account of the Reptiles and Amphibia of Canada and the more
northern parts of the Continent.
    7 . Notices of the North American Mollusca.
    8. Determination of a Species of Fish which makes a loud drumming
noise on the bottoms of vessels anchoring on the Coasts of Georgia and
Florida, and the investigation of the causes and manner of its drumming.
    The Committee of Natural History likewise requested atten
tion to the Chemistry of Entomology, and to the Geographical
distribution of Insects, more particularly with respect to the
influences exercised by geological conditions and by vegetation.
                          DESIDERATA, ECT.                                           XIX

                        MEDICAL SCIENCE.

   The Chemical Composition of Secreting Organs, and their
products, was referred for investigation to a Committee in Lon
don, consisting of Dr. Roget, Dr. Turner, Dr. Hodgkin, and
G. O. Rees, Esq., with a grant of 251.

   The Physiological Influence of Cold upon Man and Animals
was recommended to the attention of Mr. King, in the event of
his visiting the Arctic Regions, and 251. was placed at his dis
posal for the purpose.

   An experimental Investigation of the Physiology of the Spinal
Nerves was referred to Mr. S. D. Broughton, Dr. Sharpey, and
Mr. E. Cock.

   The Committee appointed in Dublin (vol. iv. p. 32) to re
port on the Pathology of the Brain and Nervous System was
requested to extend its researches to the Physiology of these
parts.

                                STATISTICS.

   In furtherance of inquiries into the actual state of schools in

England, considered merely as to numerical analyses, 150/. was
placed at the disposal of a Committee, consisting of Colonel

Sykes, Mr. Hallam, and Mr. Porter.

   Committees were named (with power to add to their number)
to draw up Instructions for observing in different branches of
Science, viz.
                      --  Rev.  W. Whewell,  Professor Forbes, Mr.
   Physical Science.
Baily, Mr.
              B--abMbra.geM, urPcrhoifseosns,orMCrh.riLsotines.dale,  Mr.  Hopkins,  Mr.
    Geology.

Greenough.
   Natural History. --Dr. Richardson, Professor Royle.

                                b2
XX SIXTH REPORT -- 1836.

  SYNOPSIS OF SUMS APPROPRIATED TO
                 SCIENTIFIC OBJECTS

BY THB GENERAL COMMITTEE AT THE BRISTOL MEETING.

.......Reduction of Observations on Stars (vol. iv. p. xv.). £500    0
Discussion of Tides (vol. iv. p. xvii.)                         250  0
Ditto     in the Port of Bristol                                     O
                                                                150  O
Constant of Lunar Nutation (vol. iv. p. xvi.)
Meteorological Instruments and Subterranean Tem                 JO

perature (vol. iv. p. xix.)                                  100 0

Comparative Level of Land and Sea (vol. iv. p. xxvi.) 500 0
Lens of Rock Salt (vol. iv. p. xxii.)                        80 0
Hourly Observations of Barometer and Wet-bulb  Hy

grometer                                                     30 O

...Investigations on the Form of Waves                       100 0

Experiments on Vitrification                                 150 0
Specific Gravity of Gases (vol. iv. p. xxiii.) .              50 0

Heat developed in Combustion, &c                             30 O
Composition of Atmospheric Air
Chemical Constants (vol. iv. p. xxiv.)                       15 0
Strength of Iron (vol. iv. p. xxxii.)
Mud in Rivers (vol. iv. p. xxvii.)        ....               24 13
Subterranean Temperature and Electricity
                                                             60 0
                                                             20 0
                                                             30 0

Origin of Peat Mosses                                        50 0
Growth of Plants under Glass and excluded from Air           25 0

Absorbents and Veins (vol. iv. p. xxxi.)       ...           50 0
Sounds of the Heart (vol. iv. p. xxxi.)                      50 0
Chemical Composition of Secreting Organs                     25 0

Influence of Cold on Man and Animals                         25 0
Effect of Poisons on the Animal GSconomy (vol. iv. p . xxxi .) 25
Pathology of Brain and Nervous System (vol. iv. p. xxxii.) 25        0
. Physiology of Spinal Nerves                                25
                                                                     0
State of Schools in England                                          0

                                                             150 O

Duty of Steam Engines                                        50 0
                  ADDRESS

                                                            BY

         PROFESSOR DAUBENY

(jrENTLEMEN, -- The practice of the three preceding Anniversaries hat

prepared you to expect, at the first General Meeting that may be held.
a short address, explanatory of the nature of those scientific objects
which had chiefly occupied the Association on the former occasion, and,
in particular, of the contents of the last published Volume of Transac
tions, in which the results of your labours are recorded. This it has
hitherto been usual for the Local Secretaries of the year to prepare ; and

it seemed but a fair division of labour that such a task should, in the

present instance, be allotted to the one, on whom, from unavoidable cir
cumstances, the smaller share in the other duties of the office had de

volved. It was this consideration, indeed, which reconciled me to the
undertaking ; for had I not felt that the framing of this Address was the

only part of the functions of Secretary that could be discharged at a
distance from the intended place of meeting, and that the time of my
colleague would be engrossed by the preparatory arrangements, in which,

from my absence, I was unable till lately to participate, I should have

shrunk from the responsibility of a task which involved the consideration
of questions of a high and abstruse character, to several of which 1 feel

myself but ill-qualified to do justice. It is nevertheless, be assured, with
extreme diflidence that I enter upon a taskwhich has, at former meetings,
been executed by men so eminent in science, and that I presume, though

one of the humblest members of this great body, to exhibit to you a brief
sketch of the labours of some of those individuals, whose presence
amongst us sheds a lustre over our proceedings, and has contributed,
more than any other motive, to draw together this great concourse here
assembled.

   There is one consideration, however, that may perhaps give me soma

claim to your indulgence : I mean that of my having attended to all the

meetings of this Association up to the present time, and hence having
traced its progress through all its various stages, from its first small be
ginnings at York, up to this period of its full maturity ; thus having
xxii  SIXTH REPORT 1836.

 been enabled, by an actual participation in the business of the meetings,
 to form a juster estimate of the real condition of the Association., and of
 the services it has rendered to science, than the public at large could

 collect.

   Thus circumstanced, for example, I have become sensible of results,

flowing from the meetings of this great body, which can scarcely figure
 in a Report, or find expression in the accounts transmitted by the pe

 riodical press :-- I have been struck by the enthusiasm elicited by the
concourse of congenial minds -- the friendships formed and cemented --

the trains of experiment first suggested, or prosecuted anew after being
 long abandoned; -- above all, the awakening of the public mind to the
just claims of Science by the celebration of these Anniversaries.

    But, important as these consequences may appear, and imperfectly as
 they may be understood by persons who keep aloof from our meetings,
it seems almost superfluous to dilate on such topics to those actually
present at them, when the mere fact of their being congregated here in
such numbers, conveys the best assurance that such is already their con
viction. Nor is it merely the assembling of so large a portion of the
respectable inhabitants of this city and neighbourhood, nor yet the at
tracting from a distance so great a number of the mere amateurs of
science, which justifies me in this conclusion ; but it is the presence of

so many hard-working, so many successful, cultivators of physical re
search, and their devoting to the service of the Association that most

valuable of their possessions, their time, which gives me a right to as
sume, that the minds of those qualified to judge on such matters (and

those only can be fully qualified who have been present) are already
made up respecting the beneficial influence which this Association is

exerting.
    The volume, indeed, which now lies upon the table, and which con

tains the results of our last year's proceedings, not only amply sustains
the former character pf these Transactions, but even shows more strongly
than those which have preceded it, the power which the Association has

been exercising in the direct advancement of Science. It contains, in

the first place, several valuable contributions to our knowledge of Mag
netism, -- a branch of science, which within a few years, stood in a
manner isolated from the rest, but which now, thanks to the researches
of living philosophers, is shown to be intimately connected with, or rather
to be one of the manifestations of that mysterious, but all-pervading
power, which seems to be displayed not less in those molecular attrac
tions that bind together the elements of every compound body, than in
the direction imparted to the loadstone ; perhaps even in the light and
ADDRESS BY FROFJCSSOR DAUBKNY.  XXlll

 heat which attend upon combustion, no less than in the awful phenomena
of a thunder-storm.

     Considering the connexion that subsists between the sciences of Heat,

 Electricity, and Magnetism, and considering, likewise, the efforts made
with various degrees of success, and by men of very unequal pretensions,
to develop the laws of each of these sciences in accordance with ma
thematical formulae, one cannot wonder that the Association should have

been anxious to assign to a member, no less distinguished for the depth
of his mathematical attainments than for the range of his acquaintance
with modern science, the task of drawing up a Report on the theories
of these three departments of Physics, considered in relation one to the
other. This accordingly has been executed by Mr. Whewell, whose
Report stands at the commencement of the volume.

    The point of view in which he was directed to contemplate the sub
ject possesses an interest to all who are engaged in the investigation of
natural phenomena, whatever may have been the particular bent to which
their researches have been directed.

   All the physical sciences aspire to become in time mathematical: the

summit of their ambition, and the ultimate aim of the efforts of their

votaries, is to obtain their recognition as the worthy sisters of the no
blest of these sciences -- Physical Astronomy. But their reception into
this privileged and exalted order is not a point to be lightly conceded ;

nor are the speculations of modern times to be admitted into this august

circle, merely because their admirers have chosen to cast over them a

garb, oftentimes ill-fitting and inappropriate, of mathematical symbols.
To weigh the credentials of the three physical sciences which have been
pointed out as mathematical, was therefore a proper office for the Asso

ciation to impose upon one of its members ; and I believe it will be

found that no small light has been thrown upon the subject by the
manner in which that trust has been discharged.

   With regard, however, to Magnetism, which forms one of the sub
jects of Mr. Whewell's Report, much still remains to be done, before
the mathematician can flatter himself that a secure foundation for his
calculations has been established ; and the materials for this foundation

must be collected from such a variety of isolated points, distant one from
the other, both in time and place, dependent for their accuracy upon
the occurrence of favourable circumstances, and, after all, demanding

from the observer an uncommon union of skill and experience, that
there is perhaps no scientific undertaking for which the co-operation of
public bodies, and even of governments, is more imperiously demanded;
and the Association has, in consequence, both engaged its members in
xxiv                           SIXTH REPORT -- 1836.

the prosecution of these researches, and has proposed to obtain for them
the national assistance. To call the attention therefore of the scientific

world, in a greater degree, to the present condition of our knowledge

as to Terrestrial Magnetism, was the object of Captain Sabine's Report
in the present volume of these Transactions; and this he has accom

plished by presenting us with an elaborate abstract of the work which

Professor Hansteen, of Copenhagen, had published upon that subject.
   This mathematician, in the year 1811, constructed a chart, in which

were laid down, so far as could be ascertained, the lines of equal varia

tion and dip of the magnetic needle in all parts of the world. It is

curious to observe the degree of coincidence which exists between these
lines representing the distribution of the magnetic force, and the iso
thermal lines by which Humboldt has expressed the distribution of heat

over the earth's surface ; and this apparent connexion, the cause of which

remains a mystery, is calculated to stimulate our zeal foT investigating
the phenomena of both. Nor is it less interesting to trace in what de

gree these later observations appear to confirm the general conclusions
arrived at by the celebrated Halley more than a century before. That
astronomer had inferred, from a general review of all that was then
known with regard to the variation and dip of the needle, that there
must be two magnetic axes ; whilst the gradual shifting of the line of

no variation from west to east, led him to propose the ingenious, though

whimsical hypothesis, of a moveable globe existing in the interior of the

earth we inhabit, actuated by the same forces as those which propel the

hollow sphere surrounding and, like it, possessing north and south
      a
                                        it,

                                           if
                                                  it

                                                                                                a
magnetic pole. This interior globe,  be supposed to move with

somewhat less rapidity than the exterior shell, might, as he conceived,

produce gradual shifting of the poles from east to west, and thus ac
count for the difference observed from time to time in the position of

the magnetic axes.

   Now the researches of Professor Hansteen confirm the existence of

two magnetic axes, though they led him to discard the hypothesis by
which Halley accounted for the progressive shifting, which, indeed, the

recently-discovered connexion between Electricity and Magnetism gives

us hopes of explaining more satisfactorily, as has been shown by Pro

fessor Christie in the Report read by him at our third meeting.

Since the publication, however, of the great work to which his Mag

netic Chart  appended, Professor Hansteen, aware of the mystery
             is
                          it,
which still overhangs the subject, has been zealously employed in at

tempting to remove by ascertaining the present state and progressive

change of the magnetic forces. He has accordingly employed himself
ADDRESS BY PROFK8SOR DAUBKMY.  XXV

in making observations on the line of no variation, or, as he prefers to
call it, the line of convergence which passes through Siberia ; and, by
a fortunate concurrence of circumstances, the north-western expedition
lately undertaken by British navigators, has afforded the means of ob

taining, at the very same time, corresponding ones on the similar line,
which extends from Hudson's Bay through the United States of America.
Thus the position of these lines in the above two most interesting lo
calities, has been almost simultaneously determined with an exactness

before unequalled.

   In conjunction with Captain Sabine, Professor Lloyd, of Dublin, has
contributed, in another way, at the instance of the Association, to ex

tend our acquaintance with the empirical laws of this interesting de
partment of science. Thi3 they have effected by determining the dip
and variation of the magnetic needle in different parts of Ireland, which
it was considered the more important to ascertain, from the situation of

that island in the most westerly point of Europe, at which observations

could be instituted.

    The distribution of the earth's magnetism through this country was

determined by the above-named observers ; first by a separate series of

observations relating to the force of that portion of the magnetic influ

ence which operates horizontally ; secondly, by a similar series on the
dip of the needle ; thirdly, by means of observations both on the dip

and intensity of the magnetic force made at the same time and with the

same instruments.

   It would occupy too much of the time of the Association, were I to

attempt to point out, however briefly, the precautions adopted, and the

corrections applied, in order to arrive at accurate results. I shall there

fore only remark, that the method by which the intensity of the mag
netic force was ascertained, resembles in principle that by which philo
sophers determine the force of gravity. For as a pendulum when set in

motion oscillates on either side of the vertical line by the force of gravity,
bo the needle, when drawn out of its natural position, will oscillate on

either side of the magnetic meridian by the earth's magnetic force, and
hence, in either case, the force may be inferred to vary, inversely, as the

square of the time in which a certain number of vibrations are performed.
In order, however, to arrive at trustworthy results, many precautions

must be adopted, which are pointed out in detail in Professor Lloyd's
memoir, and in particular one relating to temperature ; it being found
that the same needle will vary in force about 1 -4000th part for every
 degree of Fahrenheit. Having, however, arrived at a determination of
 the intensity of the magnetic force at the two extremities of the Island
xxvi  SIXTH RKPOHT -- 1836.

 by a sufficiently extended series of observations, namely, at Limerick

 by Captain Sabine, and at Dublin by Professor Lloyd, and having com
 pared the results with those obtained by means of the same needles at
 a spot out of Ireland, whose magnetic intensity had been previously
 settled, by availing themselves of the observations of Captain James
 Ross, at London, our authors proceeded to estimate the relative inten
 sity of the magnetic force at twenty-five different places within the
 compass of Ireland, by observations made at each of these simultaneously
 with others at Dublin or at Limerick. They thus obtained data by which
 to exhibit the law of Terrestrial Magnetism in Ireland, in a similar
 manner to that by which Humboldt laid down the laws of the distribu

 tion of Terrestrial Heat. The same principle was adopted in deter

 mining the lines of dip as of intensity, and the general result was ob
 tained, that the angle which the lines of dip in Ireland make with the
 meridian of Dublin is 56° 48', and that the dip increases one degree for

every distance of 101 miles in a direction perpendicular to these lines.
    The preceding method of estimating the intensity by the number of

 vibrations in a given time only applies to that portion of the earth's
magnetic force which operates in a horizontal direction. In order,
therefore, to determine the whole amount of this force, observations of

the kind above alluded to must be combined with others on the dip.
This third series accordingly was instituted at twenty-three different
stations in Ireland, and the result arrived at was, that the lines of abso
lute intensity make an angle of 33° 40' with the meridian of Dublin,
and that the intensity increases in a direction perpendicular to these

lines by the l-100th part for every 95 miles of distance.
   The importance of these researches in extending our knowledge of

Terrestrial Magnetism, and affording the data on which a correct theory
with respect to this subject may hereafter be based, will be felt even by
those who do not fully appreciate the skill and labour they required ;
and no better proof could be afforded of the substantial benefits arising
from such an institution as the British Association, than that of having

originated such an inquiry.
    On the subject of Heat, Dr. Hudson, of Dublin, has detailed some

experiments, the tenor of which he considers incompatible with the com

monly received theory respecting its radiation, which we owe to Pro
fessor Prevost, of Geneva, inasmuch as their tendency would be to esta
blish that cold is equally radiated with heat -- a result inconsistent

with the notion of the former being a negative quality. Without pro
fessing himself a convert to the views of Professor Leslie, who supposed
heat to be radiated in consequence of the alternate expansion and con
ADDRESS BY PROFESSOR DAUBENT.  XXVll

traction of the air around, producing a series of aerial pulses, Dr. Hud
son considers that their particular experiments appear more reconcileable
to his than to Prevost's theory, and, therefore, that the former deserves
to be further investigated.

   In compliance with a wish expressed by the Meteorological Commit
tee, Dr. Apjohn has investigated the theory of the Wet-bulb Hygrometer,

and communicated an account of his experiments on this subject at the
Dublin Meeting. His paper, having been already published in the
Transactions of the Dublin Academy, does not appear in our Report,
which, however, contains two very interesting communications on sub
jects of Meteorology.

   Mr. Snow Harris has presented a statement of the variations of the
thermometer at the Plymouth Dock-yard, as noted down by the war
dens and officers of the watch, during every hour of the day and night,
commencing on the 1st of May, 1832, and terminating in December,
1834, which are also checked by a concurrent series of thermometrical
observations, registered every two hours, at the request of the Associa
tion, by the late lamented Mr. Harvey.

   Thus have been afforded us, for two complete years, observations to
contrast with those taken during 1834 and 1835, at Leith Fort, under
the superintendence of the Royal Society of Edinburgh.

   Mr. Snow Harris has deduced from an average of these observations
the following important results : --

    1st, The mean temperature of various seasons, as well as that of the

entire year.
    2ndly, The daily progression of temperature.
    3rdly, The two periods of each day at which the mean temperature

occurs.
   4thly, The relation between the mean temperature of the whole twenty-

four hours, and that of any single hour.
    5thly, The average daily range for each month.
    6thly, The form of the curves described by the march of the tempera

ture between given periods of the day and night.
    In this manner has been accomplished one of the first undertakings

suggested by the British Association to its members, and promoted by
its funds, and the true form of the diurnal and annual curves in an im
portant station of our southern coast been attained, as a standard of
comparison with that arrived at by Sir David Brewster in the latitude
of Edinburgh, and from which they exhibit in the results some extremely

curious and important discrepancies.
    Professor Phillips and Mr. Gray have presented us with a continuation
xxviii           SIXTH REPORT -- 1836.

of those curious observations on the Quantities of Rain falling at differ

ent elevations, which had formed the subject of two preceding commu

nications published in these Transactions.
   In the first series of these it had been shown by Professor Phillips

that the difference between the quantities of rain that fell depended on
two conditions -- 1st, the height, and 2ndly, the temperature; the for
mer circumstance determining the ratio of the difference between the two

stations, and the latter its amount.

In the second series he showed that the ratio likewise varied at dif

ferent seasons.

   The present or third series presents us with a formula for expressing
these variations, and points out its correspondence with the observations

, made.

      That the quantity of rain which falls should be greater at lower than
  at higher elevations, is a result which, though at first sight it may ap
  pear paradoxical, is quickly perceived to harmonize with the fact, that
  drops of rain descend from a colder to a warmer atmosphere, and con
  sequently condense a portion of the aqueous vapour which exists sus
  pended in the lower strata. But that the rate of increase should actually
  be found reducible so nearly to a mathematical formula, is certainly far

more than could have been expected, and its successful accomplishment
is calculated to give us hopes that other meteorological phenomena,

which seem at present so caprioious as to baffle all calculation, may at
length be found reducible to certain fixed principles. So far as relates
to the rain that falls at York, the results are regarded by Professor
Phillips as sufficiently complete, but he strongly urges the advantage of
instituting in other spots selected in different parts of the kingdom si
milar observations, which, if executed simultaneously, would mutually

illustrate each other, and be likely to throw much additional light on
the theory of rain, and on the distribution of vapour at different

heights.

An important practical paper has been published in our Transactions

of this year by Mr. Eaton Hodgkinson, on the effect of impact upon
beams. It is a continuation of some researches which he communicated

at the preceding Meeting, on the collision of imperfectly elastic bodies.

In these experiments he had laid down the general principles relating

to the   collision of bodies of different  natures,   and had obtained amongst
other                                       that all  rigid bodies possess some
        results the following, --namely,

degree of elasticity, and that amongst bodies of the same class the hard

est are generally the most elastic.

It remained to be seen whether this difference in elasticity influenced
ADDREB6 BY PROFESSOR DAUBENT.  XXIX

the force of their impact, and this he has shown in his present memoir
not to be the case, the hardest and most elastic substances producing
no more effect upon a beam than any soft inelastic body of equal weight.
Various other conclusions of much practical as well as theoretical im

portance are stated in the above paper, and the results are severally
borne out by an elaborate and careful series of experiments.

   Our Foreign Associate, Mons. Quetelet, has presented to us a sketch
of the progress and actual state of the Mathematical and Physical Sci
ences in Belgium, of interest, not only from the information it conveys,
but likewise as the contribution of a distinguished foreigner, who had
evinced already his respect for this Association, by attending one of its
meetings. The appearance of this Report, together with that published
in the preceding volume by Professor Rogers, of Philadelphia, on the

Geology of North America, I regard as a new proof of our prosperity.
It shows that the Association has begun to exert an influence over the

progress of Science, extending even beyond the sphere which, by its
name of British, it claims for its own ; and that it has enlisted in its be

half the sympathies not only of our Transatlantic brethren, who speak

 the same language and boast of a common extraction, but likewise of

 those Continental nations, from whom we had so long been severed.

     On the subject of Chemistry, our transactions of this year contain

 only a short report by Dr. Turner, explanatory of the sentiments of the

 members of the Committee which had been appointed the preceding
 year, to consider whether or not it would be possible to recommend some
 uniform system of Notation which, coming forward under the sanction

 of the most distinguished British chemists, might obtain universal recog

 nition. In the discussion which took place when this subject was

 brought before us at Dublin, three systems of Notation were proposed,
 differing one from the other no less in principle than in the end proposed

 by their adoption.
    The first was that suggested by the venerable founder of the Atomic

  Theory, Dr. Dalton, who aimed at expressing by his mode of notation,
  not merely the number of atoms of each ingredient which unite to form
  a given compound, but likewise the very mode of their union, the sup

  posed collocation of the different particles respectively one to the other.
  He proposed, therefore, a sort of pictorial representation of each com
  pound which he specified, just as in the infancy of writing each sub
  stance was indicated, not by an arbitrary character, but by a sign
  bearing some remote resemblance to the object itself. This, therefore,
  may be denominated the Hieroglyphical mode of Chemical Notation ;

  it was of great use in the infancy of the Atomic Theory, in familiarizing
XXX  SIXTH RKPORT -- 1836.

  the minds of men of science to the mode in which combinations take

  place, and thus paved a more ready way to the reception of this import
  ant doctrine. Even now it may have its advantages in conveying to
  the mind of a learner a clearer notion of the number and relation of the

  elements of a compound body one to the other ; and in those which con
 sist only of two or three elements a symbolic representation after Dr.
 Dalton's plan might be nearly as concise as any other. But it would
 be difficult, consistently with brevity, to express in this manner any of
 those more complicated combinations that meet us in every stage of
  modern chemical inquiry, as for instance in the compounds of Cyano
 gen, or in the proximate principles of organic life.

     The second mode of Notation is that, in which the method adopted
 in Algebra is applied to meet the purposes of Chemistry. This method,
 whilst it is recommended by its greater perspicuity, and by its being in
 telligible to all educated persons, has the advantage also of involving
 no hypothesis, and being equally available by individuals who may have

 taken up the most opposite views of the collocation of the several atoms,

 or who dismiss the question as altogether foreign to their consideration.
 This, therefore, may be compared to the alphabetical mode of writing
 in use amongst civilized nations ; the characters indeed may differ, the
 words formed by a combination of these characters may be very various,
 but the principles on which they are put together to express certain

 sounds and ideas are in all countries the same.

    The third method of Notation, which has been recommenced by the

 authority of several great Continental chemists, and especially of Berze-
lius, resembles rather a system of short-hand than one of ordinary writing;

 its express object being to abbreviate, so far as is consistent with per

spicuity, the mode of Notation last described. But although most che
mists may find it convenient to employ some of these abbreviated forms
of expression, it seems doubtful whether any particular amount of them
can be recommended for general adoption, since the necessity for it will

vary according to the habits of the individual, the nature of his inqui
ries, and the objects for which his notes are designed.

   A chemist, for example, the character of whose mind enables him

quickly to perceive, and clearly to recollect minute distinctions, may
find a much more abbreviated style of notation convenient, than would
be at all advisable to others ; one who is engaged in the analysis of or
ganic compounds will be more sensible of the utility of such symbols,

than another who is conversant chiefly with a less complicated class of

combinations ; and one who notes down the results of his experiments

for the benefit of private reference, and not with any immediate view to
ADDRESS BY PROFESSOR DAUHEXY.  XXXI

others, may indulge in a more concise and complex system of notation,
than would be convenient, where either of the latter objects were con

templated.
    As the shortest road is proverbially not always the most expeditious,

so in Chemical Notation more time may often be lost in correcting our
own blunders and those of the compositor, where dots and commas of

many sorts are introduced in the place of initial letters to express cer
tain elements, than was gained by the more compendious method of
expression employed. Add to which, in the preference given to one
set of dots over another, or in the particular collocation of them, above,
below, or at the side of, the symbol to which they are referred, we have

no fixed principle to guide us, and can therefore only be determined by
the greater or less frequent adoption of one method than of another.

    Perhaps, therefore, all that can be hoped from a Committee of British
Chemists would be, to set forward the various uses of some system of
Chemical Notation, the purposes for which each of those brought before
them seems chiefly applicable, and the degree of prevalence which one

has obtained over the rest.

   If I may be allowed to offer my own humble opinion on a point winch
has been so much debated amongst British chemists, I should remark,

that for the purpose of rendering more intelligible to beginners the
mode in which various bodies are supposed to combine, the Daltonism
method of Notation may still be of use, just as pictorial representation
often comes in aid of verbal description to convey the idea of a com
plex object ; but that where the design is to state in the clearest and
least hypothetical terms, the nature of a series of combinations, a mode
of notation as closely as possible approaching to that adopted in algebra
seems preferable -- remembering always, that as in algebra we omit cer
tain signs for the sake of greater brevity, so it may be allowable to do
in applying its principles to Chemistry ; these abbreviations being of
course the most advisable in cases, where, by reason of the greater num
ber of elements involved, the expression of them at whole length would

occupy so much space, as to prevent the whole from being compre
hended at a glance.

   The above remarks will not, I believe, be found inconsistent with the
spirit of the brief report which Dr. Turner has communicated, and
which is to the following effect :--

    1st. That the majority of the Committee concur in approving of the
employment of that system of Notation which is already in general use
on the Continent, though there exist among them some difference of
opinion on points of detail.
xxxii        SIXTH REPORT -- 1836.

2ndly. That they think it desirable not to deviate in the manner

of notation from algebraic usage, except so far as convenience requires.
   And 3dly. That it would save much confusion if every chemist would

state explicitly the exact quantities which he intends to represent by

his symbols.

   But I must hasten on to those few other Reports which the present
volume contains, but on which I shall have the less to say, as they re

late to subjects connected with Anatomy and Physiology, of less general

interest to a mixed audience.

Dr. Jacob has replied to a query proposed by the Zoological Com

mittee at a former meeting with respect to the uses of the infra-orbital

cavities in Deers and Antelopes, and has pronounced them to be de

signed as the receptacles of a peculiar odoriferous secretion.
   Dr. Hodgkin and Dr. Roupell have detailed a series of experiments

and observations relative to the specific mode of action of acrid poisons,
which, whether at once introduced into the stomach, or the circulation,

by injection into the veins, seem to operate primarily in the same man

ner, as irritants to the mucous membrane.

The Dublin Sub-Committee appointed for the purpose, have given

in a report connected with a subject of great pathological interest,

respecting which none, but the experienced medical practitioner, ought

to pretend to pass a decided judgment.

   Nevertheless, when I look back to the early period of my own pro

fessional studies, and recollect the obscurity in which diseases of the

heart appeared then to be involved, when their remedy seemed so de

sperate, as  mtootstuogg"esHt atroetonlaeteorfi  tlheethmaliosstarduisntdinogu"isahsedappwrorpirtieartse  on   the
subject the                                                                                                to  his

work, and as significant of the probabilities of cure, and when their

very nature was known but partially, and could only be guessed at by

methods purely empirical, --when I recollect all this, I cannot refrain

from congratulating those of my brethren who are engaged in the duties

of the profession from which I am myself a deserter, on the discovery

of a new instrument of investigation in diseases of this nature, the use

of which, being founded on physiological principles, seems susceptible

of greater improvement, and more extended application, in proportion

as our knowledge of the animal ceconomy advances.

But in order properly to avail ourselves of the indications of disease

afforded by the differences of sound transmitted through the integu

ments by the heart, it is necessary that we should be acquainted with

the nature of its pulsations, and of the sounds occasioned by them in a

healthy state, and this information it has been the object of the Dublin
                  ADDRESS BY PROFESSOR DAUDENY.  XXXU1

Sub-committee to embody in the report which was communicated by
them last year to the Medical Section.

     Such are the principal contents of the volume which records the
scientific labours instituted at the express suggestion of the general
body, and prepared for its last Meeting ; but, exclusively of these,

many very valuable and elaborate investigations were submitted to the
several Sections without any such solicitation.

   I may instance in particular the views with respect to the classifica

tion and the geological distribution of Fishes, expounded to Us with so
 much ability by Mons. Agassiz, whose important labours might perhaps
 have been suspended, but for the timely assistance dealt out to him by
 this body, and the opportunities which its Meetings afforded, for giving
 them that publicity which they deserved.

   I may point out likewise the important results submitted to the Geo

logical Section by Mr. Murchison and Professor Sedgwick, with refer
ence to the Silurian formations of Wales and Shropshire, and the mul
titude of facts illustrative of the physical structure of Ireland, which
were elicited by the exhibition of Mr. Griffith's Geological Map, an
undertaking which, coupled with the researches of Mr. Mackay on the
plants indigenous to that country, promises to render us as well ac
quainted with the Natural History of this portion of the Empire, as we
already are with respect to Great Britain itself.

   Nor must I forget the researches on Comparative Anatomy laid be

fore the Medical Section by Dr. Houston, who pointed out the existence
of reservoirs connected with the veins leading to the lungs in the Ce-

tacea --an admirable contrivance, by which Nature has provided for the

unobstructed circulation of their blood, in spite of the enormous pressure
which they have to sustain at the great depths to which they are wont

to dive.

    The Members of the Association had also the satisfaction of witness
ing the ingenious manner in which Mr. Snow Harris contrives to render
quantities of Electricity appreciable by the balance, like those of any
gross material substance ; whilst such as could enter upon the more re
fined branches of mathematical analysis must have listened with pro
found interest to the exposition given by Professor Hamilton, of the
ingenious labours of Mr Jerrard, of this city, in solving Equations of

the higher orders.

What proportion of such inquiries may be attributable to the influ

ence of this Association, and how much might have been merely the
vol. v. -- 1836.
                  c
XXXIV  SIXTH REPORT -- 1836.

result of that increased taste for physical research to which the Asso

ciation itself owes its existence, I do not pretend to determine ; this,

however, at least must be allowed, that many of the most important
truths communicated might have been long in winning their way to
general recognition, and in ridding themselves of those exaggerated and
mistaken views, which are the common accompaniments of every infant

discovery, had it not been for the opportunities which these Meetings
afford, of examinining the very authors of them, with respect to their
own inquiries ; of confronting them with others who have prosecuted
similar trains of research ; of questioning them with respect to the
more doubtful and difficult points involved ; and of obtaining from them,
in many instances, an exhibition of the very experiments by which they
had been led to their conclusions.

    And it is this personal intercourse with the authors of these great
revolutions in Science, which in itself constitutes one of the principal
charms of these meetings. Who would not have listened with delight
to a Newton, had he condescended to converse on the great truths of
Astronomy ; to a Jussieu, imparting to a circle of his intimates in his
own garden at Trianon, those glimpses with respect to the natural re
lations of plants, which he found it so difficult to reduce to writing ;
or to a Linnaeus, discussing at Oxford his then novel views with respect
to the vegetable kingdom, and winning from the reluctant Dillenius a
tardy acknowledgment of their merits ? And in like manner, who does
not value the privilege of hearing a Dalton discourse on these occasions

on his own Atomic Theory, or a Faraday, (who, however, I regret to

say, is on this occasion prevented by illness from attending), explain
orally the steps by which he has traced the relations between Electricity
and Magnetism, although every one is aware, that the principal facts,
both with respect to the one and the other, have long since been made
public by their respective authors, and have been abundantly commented

upon by others.
   And nowhere, perhaps, is it more desirable to instil those sentiments

to which I have alluded, than within the precincts of those provincial
cities which the Association now proposes to visit. The inhabitants of
those great emporiums of Commerce and Manufactures are indeed often

enough reminded, that processes directed by the guidance of Chemistry
and Mechanics constitute the very basis of their prosperity, but they
are too apt to regard these and other kindred sciences, as the instru
ments merely of material wealth, and to deem it superfluous to prose
cute them further than they are seen to conduce to that one end.

   That such notions are short-sighted, even with reference to the prac
ADDRESS BY PROFESSOR DAUHENY.  XXXV

tical applications of the Arts, it would not be difficult to show ; but I
am ambitious to place the question on a higher ground, and the presence
amongst us of such individuals as I have mentioned, will do more to
wards that object than volumes of argument would effect. It will con
vince us at least, that other roads to distinction, besides that of mere
wealth, are opened to us through the instrumentality of the Sciences ;
for although, thanks to the spirit of the age, which in this respect at
least stands advantageously distinguished from those preceding it, the
discoverers of important truths are not, as heretofore, allowed to lan
guish in absolute poverty, yet the debt which society owes to them
would be but inadequately paid, were it not for the tribute of respect
 and admiration which is felt to be their due.

    It has indeed been sometimes objected, that too large a share of

 public attention is in this age directed to the Physical Sciences, and
 that the study of the human mind, the cultivation of literature, and the

progress of the Fine Arts have been arrested in consequence. In what
 degree the accusation is well founded, this is not the place to inquire,
although, when we look round upon the many literary characters that
 adorn this age, we should rather suppose the remark to have arisen

 from the increasing interest in Science, than from any diminished taste
 for other studies.

   If this complaint however had any foundation in truth, it would only

 supply a stronger argument in favour of an Association like the present,

 the express object of which is to correct that narrowness of mind which

 is the consequence of limiting ourselves to the details of a single science,

 or, it may be, to a single nook and corner of one, and therefore to render

 the prevailing taste of the times more subservient to mental culture, and
 therefore a better substitute for the studies it is alleged to have super

 seded ;-- an Association too, which, with no narrow and exclusive feel

 ing towards those pursuits which it is designed to foster, extends the
 right hand of fellowship to men of eminence in every department upon
  which the human mind can be exercised, and which would have felt
  that no higher honour could have been bestowed upon its present
  Meeting, than by the attendance of the great poet, and the great
  sculptor, who own Bristol as their native city.

     To alter indeed the character of the period in which we live, is as
  much beyond the efforts of individuals, as to fix the time of their birth,
 or the country and station in which their lot is cast ; and it is perhaps
  inevitable, that an age and country so distinguished above all others
  for the advancement of arts and manufactures, should attach an in

  creased importance to those sciences on which both the latter are de

   pendent.
XXXvi  SIXTH RKPOKT -- 1836.

    But it is at least consolatory to reflect, that Providence has attached

 to every one of those conditions of society through which nations are

 destined to pass, capabilities of moral and intellectual improvement,
 and that the very sciences which so amply minister to our physical en
 joyments, also afford the means of those higher gratifications which
 spring from the exercise of the taste and imagination. Thus, although
 it may not be easy for the citizen to indulge to any extent in studies alien
 from the pursuits which engross his hours of business, yet it cannot be
 deemed incompatible with the latter to mount up to the principles of

 those sciences which are connected with the arts he practises ; to study

 their relation one to the other ; and to acquaint himself with the steps
 by which they have reached their present eminence. It cannot but be

 useful to the chemical manufacturer to study the laws of that molecular

 attraction which binds together the elements of the substances which

 he prepares ; to the mechanic to examine the process of the arts in con

 nexion with the general laws of matter ; to the miner or land-surveyor,

 to inform himself with respect to the physical structure of the globe ;
 to the agriculturist, to become acquainted with the principles of vege

 table physiology, and the natural relations of plants.
    For my own part, intimately connected as I am, both with the first

 of the commercial cities, and also with the first of the universities, that

 welcomed the British Association within its precincts, warmly interested
 in the prosperity of both, and officiating as Local Secretary on either
occasion, I have felt personally gratified at seeing the selection of these
places justified by the cordiality of our reception in both, and at wit
nessing the new vigour which has been infused into the Association, in
consequence of the support it has therein received. But how much will
that gratification be augmented if it should be found hereafter that the
benefit in either case has been mutual ; that these Meetings have ce
mented those bonds of union between the academical and the commer
cial portion of the British community, which it is so desirable to main

tain ; and that, whilst the University to which I belong has reaped ad

vantage, by having its attention called to the interest felt in the phy
sical sciences generally throughout the kingdom, my fellow-citizens
here will in like manner catch the spirit which pervades our body, and
will engage in the pursuit of knowledge, with a juster conception of its
high objects, and with a zeal and devotion to its cause, which will not

be less practically useful, because it is stimulated by a more disinter
ested love of truth ; less capable of ministering to the operation of the
arts, because it is also rendered subservient to mental discipline and im

provement !
        REPORTS

                                               ON

THE STATE OF SCIENCE.

Report on   the Present State of our  Knowledge with respect to
   Mineral
             and Thermal Waters.       By Charles Daubeny,
M.D., F.R.S., M.R.I. A., Sfc, Professor of Chemistry and

of Botany, Oxford.
"The term Mineral Water," in its most extended sense, com- Definition.

prises every modification existing in nature of that universally
diffused fluid, whether considered with reference to its sensible
properties, or its .action upon life. For as every agent which
affects the animal system in a peculiar manner, must be pre
sumed to possess something in its constitution which is wanting
in other*, the circumstance of any remarkable medicinal virtue

residing in a spring ought, if well established, to be regarded, as
a proof of something distinctive in its physical or chemical na

ture. All medicinal springs therefore will range themselves
under the head, either of thermal, or of mineral waters, deriving
their properties from the temperature they possess, or from some
peculiarity of saline or gaseous impregnation ; but the subject-
matter of the present Report embraces a much wider field than
this, including the consideration of every other description of
water, whether circulating through the atmosphere, collected in
the ocean, or distributed over the surface of our continents.

The former of these, however, or atmospheric water, as being 1st. Atmo-
Ithe purest form of any which nature presents, will supply us spheric
with the fewest materials for comment.  ought however to a er"

notice the reported detection in it of small quantities, of iron,
nickel, manganese, of certain ammoniacal compounds, and of a
peculiar organic substance chemically different from the extrac
tive matter and the gluten of plants and animals, which from its
yellowish brown colour has been called pyrrhinc.
vol. v. 1836.
               n
2 SIXTH REPORT 183G.

According to the statement of Zimmerman n*, formerly Pro
fessor of Chemistry at Giessen, all the above matters are to be
found in snow-water, but pyrrhine was first detected in a red
shower of rain which fell at that town in 1821. The water that
contained it was of a peach red colour, and flakes of a hyacinthine
tinge floated on its surface. This latter was the substance de

signated by the above name.

   Some of these results have been since confirmed by Dr. Wit-
tingt, of Hoxter on the Weser, who declares, that he has ten times
examined the rain-water from his own neighbourhood, and that
whilst in seven trials he found it destitute of fixed principles, in
three he detected in it foreign matter, which in one case proved
to be muriate of potash, and in the other two free muriatic acid.
He also found tbe air collected from elevated spots on the Hartz
mountains to contain the same organic principle which Zimmer-

mann had designated as pyrrhine, thus confirming the probabi
lity of its existence in rain-water.
   He remarked, that the atmosphere of a place contained in
general the same foreign ingredients which the first fall of rain
brings to the ground, such, for example, as traces of muriates,
)f free muriatic and carbonic acids, and of carburetted hydrogen
gas. Rain which fell during a north-west wind commonly con
tained much carbonic, together with traces of phosphoric, acid.
The latter was discovered on several occasions in rain which
had fallen during particular states of the weather; and Dr.
Witting goes on to state, that certain plants exhale so that
when they are confined under glass, traces of this acid may bea
detected on the internal surface of the latter.               it,

   In four out of twelve trials snow was found to exhibit signs
of muriatic acid, and of an organic colouring matter. Hail and
sleet collected in the spring of 1824 contained large quantity
of this latter substance, but none either of the acids nor the salts
above mentioned. Dew showed vestiges of nitric and muriatic
acids, but in hoar-frost no signs of any extraneous matter were

discoverable.

  Upon the whole then may be observed, that of the above
circumstances, the one relating to the existence of organic matis it
ter in atmospheric water best substantiated and this has more
                                               f
Xalately been ascribed by the distinguished Ehrenberg to the ovaby
of particular class of Infusoria (the Polygastrica), which, being;
raised by currents and by evaporation, fill the atmosphere, andJ.
                                                                 The presence
thus produce the pyrrhine observed by chemists
of salts and of acids, in the atmosphere, and consequently in
water derived from  it,
                        is       also supported  sufficient evidence.

  * Kastner's Archiv., vol. ii.                  Kastner's Archiv, vol. v.
    Ehrenberg in Jameson's Journal for 1831, "on Blood-red Water."
        REPORT OX MINERAL AND THERMAL WATERS.                                              3

Nitric acid, indeed, seems to be spontaneously generated from

its elements under certain circumstances as yet but imperfectly
understood, as during the decomposition of water by voltaic
electricity*, and in the case of the formation of nitre on walls.
We need not, therefore, be astonished to find it sometimes pre
sent in atmospheric water. Common salt is also taken up in
small quantities by aqueous vapour, and the same is the case
with many other alkaline and earthy compounds.
   But  Ithe existence of metallic bodies in the atmosphere re

quires  further confirmation, although am not disposed to reject
the statements of Zimiiiermann on this
worthy of examination. Faraday indeed   phoaisntshaoswanltotg, etthhaetr   un
                                                                          such

matters cannot be suspended there by the mere repulsive force

of heat, since every substance, according to his experiments,
possesses a certain fixed point, below which no spontaneous vo
latilization of its particles takes place, and the limit of volati

lity in these metals greatly surpasses the highest temperature
which the atmosphere ever attains.
   Still, however, it becomes a distinct question, whether such
bodies may not exist there by virtue of their affinity for others ;
and experiments recently made in Italy seem to show, that in

some manner or other they are so suspended. Thus, Fusinieri J

has stated, that electrical light carries with it metallic bodies in

a state of incandescence, and that ordinary lightning deposits
upon the substances with which it comes into contact, sulphur,
and iron, in a metallic, as well as in an oxidized, condition.
Hence according to him arises the smell which always accom

panies thunder, and hence the pulverulent matter deposited
round the fractures occasioned in those solid bodies which the

lightning traverses.
   The connexion of these researches with the origin of meteoric
stones is too obvious to require our insisting on ; and hence it

becomes of the more importance that some fresh experiments
and observations should be set on foot, in order that the ques

tion may be finally determined.
   To conclude   mI ymaacycomunetntioofn,ththeatfotrheeignfactboodfiecsarbmueret ttwedith    in
                                                                                           hy
meteoric water,
drogen having been detected in the water of rain, snow, and
hail, is the more credible, inasmuch as Boussingault§ has found
this same gas in the atmosphere surrounding large cities.

With respect to sea-water, the next modification of this fluid 2ndiy. Wa

                                                                                                                                           ter of Seas.

      * See Davy"s Experiments, 1807, Philosophical Transactions.
     T Philosophical Transactions, vol. cxvi. p. 2.
     J Becquerel, Trait e a" Electricity, vol. iii. p. 157.

       § Annates de Chimie.
                                                      B2
4 sixth HEPonr -- 1836.

which I shall notice, the only new mineral substances disco
vered in it are, potash by Dr. Wollaston, iodine by Pfaff, and

bromine by Balard. The quantity of the two former is so mi
nute, that the variation of either in different seas still remains

undetermined ; but the proportion of bromine is considerable
enough to admit of being measured with something like preci

sion.
  I
       hwahveichmyI seexlfamfoinuendd.  it  to  vary  considerably   in different sam
ples
Thus, 1 gallon of sea-water, taken off Cowes, afforded of bro
mine 0'915 grain ; in the Bay of Naples, 0-925 grain; off the
coast near Marseilles, 1*260 grain.

  I have since examined two specimens of sea- water taken on the
line, the former in long. 21° 301 west, the latter in long. 84° 30*
east, and in both cases detected a larger proportion of bromine
than in any of those above mentioned. In one sample, indeed,
the quantity indicated was so large, that I suspect some error
to have crept into the analysis, and therefore forbear quoting it ;
in the other, which probably was correct, it amounted to no less

than    l-7 grain to the gallon.                      to  stimulate  inquiry, deeming

  I    mention these facts merely
them too few to allow of my grounding any inference at present

upon them. It may be right however to state, that the quantity
of bromine did not depend upon the greater amount of saline
matter in some of the specimens than in others, this being found

always very nearly to agree.

   With respect to the proportions of the latter present in differ
ent seas, it has been remarked by Dr. Marcet*, that the south
ern ocean contains more salt than the northern, in the ratio of
1 "0291 9 to 1 "02757, and that the proportion present in the water
at the equator holds the middle place between the two.

   This corresponds with my own experiments, which indicated
a difference in that respect between the water of the equator
taken from long. 84° 307 east of Greenwich, and that from the
Bay of Naples at a considerable distance from land, off the
island of Ischia, about as 100 to 95'5 ; whilst the water taken

from the line, in the Atlantic, in long. 21°30' west, was still Salter,
being to that obtained in east longitude as 107"5 to 1000.

   This latter result agrees with one of the conclusions deduced

by Lenzf, who accompanied Kotzebue in his expedition round

the world, from a series of observations made by him during his

voyage.
   That naturalist ascertained by numerous experiments :
    1st. That the Atlantic Ocean is salter than the South Sea, and

       f· Philosophical Transactions, vol. cxii.

          Edinburgh Journal of Science, 1R32.
         REPORT ON MINERAL AND THERMAL WATERS.                                         5

that the Indian Ocean, which unites the two, is salter on the
west where it approaches the Atlantic, than on the east where
joins the South Sea.
2nd. That in each of these oceans there exists a maximum

point of saltness towards the north, and another towards the
south, the first being further from the equator than the second.
The minimum between these two points in the Atlantic is found
to be a few degrees south of the equator; in the Pacific it still
remains to be determined.
3rd. In the Atlantic the western portion is more salt than the
eastern ; in the Pacific, the saltness does not appear to vary.
   4th. In proceeding northwards from the point at which the
saltness is at its maximum, the specific gravity of the water di
minishes constantly as the latitude increases.
5th. From the equator to 45° north latitude, the sea-water,
from the surface to the depth of 1000 fathoms, continues uni
form in saltness.
This last conclusion, however, must not be looked upon as instru-
fully established, since the instruments, by means of which sea- ment.s for
water has hitherto been drawn from great depths, are considered
by the best judges very faulty in their construction, and inca-                           waTer'from
                                                                                          depths.

pable of affording trustworthy results. Such was the opinion
expressed by Dr. Marcet*, after examining those that had been

invented up to the period at which he wrote ; and such more

recently was the impression of M. Aragot, who hence was led
to recommend, to the navigators of the French discovery ship,
the Bonite, an instrument for the same purpose of M. Biot's in
vention, which is on a different plan from those hitherto em

ployed.
The description given of this contrivance by M. Arago is in
itself very
             brief, and is unaccompanied by a                      plate. Possibly,
therefore,   I may not                                             part of its con
struction,              thheavbeesut ndcoenrsstiodoedratioenveryI  was able to give
             but upon
to the subject, it appeared to me that some parts of the instru
ment might admit of improvement.
   1 consequently designed an apparatus framed on a similar
principle to that of M. Biot, but provided neither with a spring
to exclude the external water, nor with a stopcock and bladder
to receive the compressed gas, both which objects were fulfilled
by means of a small hollow cap of brass, which being attached to
a conical stopper, accurately ground to the hole in the bottom of
the instrument through which the water was admitted, dropped
down upon this aperture when the vessel was inverted, and
thus at the same time would cut off all communication with the

· Philosophical Transactions, 1819.                                f .inmiaire, 1836.
                                 SIXTH REPORT 1836.

              external water, and would receive any air, which upon the re
              moval of the pressure might escape from the body of the vessel.

                IThis instrument has been exhibited at the Mechanical Section,

              but am loth to occupy more space in its description, until it
              has been put to the test of experiment in the open sea *.
                 The gaseous contents of sea-water, which with an apparatus
Gases pre     of this description may be collected and examined, have not as
sent in Sea-  yet received the attention they appear to deserve.

water.          f,M. Arago remarks, that oxygen predominates over azote in

              the surface water both of the sea and of rivers and likewise in

              that of the Mediterranean even at a depth of 1000 metres t-
              This latter observation, however, is rendered doubtful by the
              imperfection of the means hitherto employed for drawing up
              water from the sea; and supposing it correct, still, as M. Arago
              remarks, we are left in the dark, as to whether the same law holds

              good at greater depths.
                 The determination of this point, however, is of the more im

              portance, inasmuch as some observers have supposed the bub
              bles of gas, which occasionally rise up through the sea in the
              vicinity of volcanos, as, for example, off the coast of Sicily, to
              have been disengaged from sea-water ; now these bubbles, un
              like what would have been the case, had they been derived from
              the air existing in the surface-water, were found to contain a
              predominance of nitrogen gas§. The pressure exercised upon
              sea- water at great depths would also enable it to hold in solution
              much larger quantities of air, the presence of which, supposing
              it to consist, in part of carbonic acid, might cause the waters to
              dissolve a greater amount of carbonate of lime, and thus afford
              a more abundant supply of that ingredient to the numerous
              molluscs, that are building up extensive calcareous formations
              within the ocean.

Water of         Inland seas and lakes may be divided into those which pos-
Lakes.        sess an outlet, and those which are destitute of one.

                 The water of the former commonly corresponds with that of
              the rivers which flow into them ; that of the latter contains in
              general the same ingredients as sea- water, but in a state of much
              greater concentration.

                 * This apparatus has since been tried off Margate in water of 50 feet in
              depth, and appeared to answer perfectly.

                 T The most recent experiments on this subject are those of Dr. Thomson,
              (Records of General Science for Sept. 1836,) who found that the air contained
              in Clyde water consisted of 70'9 azote, 29-l oxygen, and that when a
              mixture of the two gages was placed over water, the oxygen was absorbed
              much more readily and in larger quantities than the azote.

                 J Annnairo, 1836.

                  § Philosophical Transuctiont, 1834.
      REPORT OX MINERAL AND THERMAL WATERS.                                               7

    Thus, 500 grains of the water of the lake Ourmia in the pro
vince of Azerbijan in Persia, contains, according to Dr. Marcet,
111 grains of salt *, and a similar quantity from the Dead Sea
 192*5 grains, whereas the largest quantity present in the ocean
does not seem to exceed 21*3 grains.

   In quality the saline ingredients found in these lakes seem to

differ very little from those of sea- water, but Lake Ourmia con
tained a larger proportion of sulphates, whilst the Dead Sea is
found to be entirely destitute of them.

    Prof. Henry Rose has lately examined the water of Lake Elton
in Asiatic Russia, and has found it to possess a specific gravity
of 1 "27288, and to contain nearly 30 per cent, of saline matter,
which approaches nearly to the quantity present in the Lake
Ourmia.

    In this, muriate of magnesia was the prevailing ingredient, a

circumstance doubtless attributable to the extreme concentration
of the solution, which is such as to have brought about a pre
cipitation of the greater part of the less soluble ingredients.
Hence rock salt is formed in thick beds, at the bottom and on the

sides of this and of several other lakes adjoining the Caspian.
The sea or estuary of Ohhotsk, with which are connected the
brine springs of Irhoutzk, in Asiatic Russia, contains an in
gredient not found in the cases before alluded to, namely, mu
riate of alumina, with which is associated a large quantity of
other deliquescent earthy muriates, ingredients which render

the salt obtained from them unwholesomef.
   With respect to the borax lakes of Thibet, we possess no in

formation capable of throwing light on the cause of their pecu
liar mineral impregnation.

   Proceeding next to   the  subject of mineral waters properly so                           3rd|   Wa_
                        the  circumstances relating, 1st, to their                           terof
called, I shall notice
temperature ; 2ndly, to their chemical constitution · and 3rdly, Springs.
to their effects upon the animal economy.
   With respect to the first                                 confusion has arisen in
the application of the term       point, much                to springs. By some,            Their Tem-
                                                                                             perature.
                                  "thermal"
that epithet has been applied to those only, which exceed con
siderably the average temperature of the springs of the country ;
                                  some arbitrary point in the scale.
Ibty  others,  to such  as reach  that the only precise mode of, pro
      appears   to me   however,
ceeding will be, to call every spring thermal which surpasses
ever so little the average temperature of the country in which it
is situated ; and in constructing a scale of temperatures with re
*

                                       it,
                                                         by

                                          t
gard to them, to calculate not their actual warmth, but by
the degree of their excess above the mean of the climate. Thus,

      Philosophical Transactions, 1819.                      Annates de Chimic, vol.xli.
8 SIXTH REPORT -- 18.36.

a thermal spring having the temperature of 90° in this country,
ought to stand higher in the scale than one of 100° in Mexico,

and a spring at 70° might justly be termed thermal in the one
latitude, but not in the other.

  It is on this principle that I have constructed a table, which

will appear at the close of this Report, conceiving, that although
the exact mean temperature of the locality can in many instances
he only guessed at, and in the majority must not be regarded as
fully determined, still no error need arise from my mode of ex
pression, as the ascertained temperature of each spring may be
readily computed, by simply adding the number which gives the
assumed mean temperature of the spot, to that indicating the
excess of heat inferred to belong to the spring itself.

   Now Prof. Bischof of Bonn* has remarked, that in almost
every case the temperature of mineral springs (amongst which
we of course do not include land springs, or waters derived from
a superficial source,) is such, as places them, according to the
definition just given, amongst thermal ones ; and indeed the
mere circumstance of a difference in this respect existing among
them is in itself a strong presumption that such is the case ; for
it is evident that, except where a spring has its origin in certain
high mountains adjoining, the coldest of the series will approach
nearest to the mean temperature of the locality, whilst the re
maining ones must derive their excess of warmth from some in

dependent cause.
Thus Bischof examined about twenty springs near the Lake
of Laach, and found the temperature of the coldest of them to
         that of the         by nearly 2£ degrees of Fahrenheit.
exceed    rule held   place  even amongst the springs of countries
                      good
   This

like Hessia, Hanover, Bavaria, and Wurtemberg, where no such

decided indications of recent volcanic action exist.
   The same remark applies likewise to Artesian wells. Thus
the temperature of forty-eight springs bored in and near Vienna,
was found by observations made in November 1820, to fall be

tween 520,25 and 5/°'2, whereas the mean temperature of Vi
enna  is only 50°"80.
      would be important,    if such  observations  were followed up
  It

in other portions of the globe, as well as within the comparatively

limited range to which Prof. Bischof's statements apply. In

some countries, for instance, where volcanic action has once been
rife, as in the Hebrides and in various parts of Scotland and Ire
land, one might expect some excess of temperature in the springs
of the district over the mean of the climate ; whilst in others,

   * Edinburgh New Philosophical Journal, April, 1830. It is to be regretted,
that a translation of the latter portion of this valuable paper has not yet been
published in the above Journal.
REPORT ON MINERAL AND THERMAL WATERS.                            U

where volcanic phenomena are of rare occurrence, as in the
Scandinavian Peninsula*, Russia, and Poland, it would be well

to learn, whether the temperature of springs more nearly corre
sponded with that of the climate, than is the case in the parts
of Germany where igneous action may still be suspected. Such
an inquiry would not be without its bearing upon those pro
blems concerning the origin of thermal springs in general, which

will be discussed in a subsequent part of this Report, for if ther
mal springs derive their temperature from a remnant of volcanic
energy existing beneath, they ought to be most frequent in coun
tries where such energy has at one time or other been mani

fested ; whilst if they simply proceed from a generally diffused
heat pervading the interior of our planet, they might be expected
to appear in countries of every geological structure.
Independently, however, of the mere question, as to whether Periodical
there be any evidence of the existence in the springs of a coun- Va"ations
try of an excess of temperature beyond the mean of the climate, °atllTMhf"
and the determination of this question by accurate thermome- Springs.
trical observations both on the air and the spring, neither of
which has in most cases been done in a satisfactory manner,
two points of inquiry present themselves ; first, as to whether
there be any periodical variation of heat in the latter from day to
day, or at different seasons of the year ; and secondly, whether,
in the course of the ages that have elapsed since they were first
known, any augmentation or diminution of temperature had oc
curred.

  Prof. Bischof t has shown, that in some cases the variations of
external temperature do manifest themselves in the thermal
springs of a district ; but this only happens when their excess
of heat is inconsiderable.
  A similar variation has been observed,  as I am informed in a
letter with which I was favoured from     Mr. Jephson, M.P. for
Mallow, in the thermal spring of that town, and it would be

desirable that exact observations should elsewhere be instituted

on the same point.

  A variation of temperature at different periods of the year has
been observed in the spring of Bourboulc in AuvergneJ, and in
that of Balaruc near Montpellier.
Still more important is the question relative to the secular Secular va-
                                                                             nation of
variation of temperature in thermal waters.
   In countries where traces of former or present volcanic action ^n in""

are discoverable, and where earthquakes are frequent, the tern- Springs.

   * I shall allude to Wahlenberg's observations on this country in a subse

fquent part of this Report.
        Edinburgh Journal, lor. cit.
   I Lecoq, Annates Scicnlijiqitcs dc I'Auvcryne.
  10 SIXTH REPORT -- 1836.

 perature of thermal springs is often inconstant. Thus in Vene
 zuela, Boussingault and Rivero* found the waters of Mariana
 64° Cent., whereas Humboldt a few years before determined it
 to be 59° ; and that of Funcheras 92°-2, which Humboldt had
 found to be 90- °4 Cent.

     But in the interval between these two observations had oc
 curred the great earthquake, which overwhelmed the Caraccas
 and other towns situated in the western Cordilleras.

     The same explanation however cannot be extended to those
 thermal springs which are unconnected with volcanic action, and
 concerning these the testimony is of rather a conflicting nature.
 Thus Angladaf has compared the temperature of ten springs in
 the Pyrenees as ascertained by him in 1819, with that determined
 by Carrere sixty-five years before, and in all of them found a di
 minution, amounting in one instance to 27°, but in the rest va
 rying from half a degree to 7° of Fahrenheit. The same ob
 server found an abatement of 2° in the spring of Molitg in the
 eastern Pyrenees after an interval of only two years.

    On the other hand, it is remarkable that BerzeliusJ in 1822
 found the spring of Carlsbad to possess the identical temperature
which belonged to it in 1770, according to the observations of
Becher, viz. 164° Fahrenheit. Yet so contradictory is the evi
 dence, that this very spring is reported by Klaproth, at a period
intermediate between the above two observations, as being 8° of

Itemperature lower.

    With regard indeed to thermal springs in general, it must,

believe, be admitted, that no observations have been yet made
with thermometers of sufficient exactness to set the question at

rest ; and I therefore conceive, that a valuable legacy has been

bequeathed to science by Prof. Forbes in the report on the tem
perature of the thermal springs of the Pyrenees and others, which
he has lately laid before the Royal Society of London, were it
only for the pains he had previously taken in verifying, and in
comparing with an uniform standard, the instruments he em
ployed.

   In the absence, however, of direct experiments, we may be

authorized on general grounds to presume, that the temperature
of thermal springs, in countries not exposed to present volcanic
operations, undergoes no sensible change during a long period
of time.

  If any change did take place, it would probably be from a

higher to a lower degree, rather than the reverse; and as several
of the thermal springs which were known and resorted to by the

                      * Annates tie Chimin, t. xxiii. p. 274.
                      T Mrmoires snr les Eattx Minerales, 1827, p. 65.
                       J Annates de Chimin, t. xxviii.
BEPORT ON MINERAL AND THERMAL WATERS.                                 11

ancients, such as Aix, Mont Dor*, Plombieres, and Bath, re

tain at present a heat as great as is tolerable to the human body,
it seems evident, that if they had been only in a slight degree
hotter in the time of the Romans, they would have required to
be cooled down by artificial means before they were employed
for bathing, which we are not told was ever the case.
The same question, as the one concerning the temperature of Fixed In-
mineral springs just discussed, may also be started with respect gradients of
to the quality and quantity of their ingredients.        But before we
proceed to state what is known on this subject,          it will be con        springs

venient to advert to a notion at one time advanced by Dbbe-
reinerf, namely, that the salts present in mineral waters bear
a certain relation as to quantity one to the other.
   Ignorant as we are of the processes by which saline substances whether in
are formed in the interior of the earth, it might be rash to affirm, definite
that in a mineral water which had obtained its fixed ingredients oneP to°he
exclusively from one spot, some fixed ratio did not obtain be- other,
tween the respective quantities of the latter.
   But it is inconceivable, that a spring, having to pass through

a great extent of rock before it reaches the surface, should not
more commonly find certain substances to dissolve, or become
intermixed with other currents of water in its way, and that in
the event of either of these things happening, the relative pro
portions of the original ingredients should remain as before.

   If, therefore, Dbbereiner were admitted to have established,

that in a few special cases}: the salts existing in a mineral water
hold a certain definite proportion one to the other, probability
suggests, that the circumstance is to be regarded as an exception

merely, and not as the rule, and this inference, I believe, will be
fully confirmed, by referring to the actual results of the analysis
of mineral springs in general.
   Hence, without embarrassing ourselves with the consideration, whether

   · At Mont Dor the very bath exists which was constructed in the time *ke Constl"
of Ciesar.

T Ueber die chemuche Constitution der Mineralwasser. Jena, 1821.
X I confess myself unable to find any examples which establish Doberei-
ner's rule. Let us take the Carlsbad water, to which he appeals, and suppose
the ingredients to be in atomic proportions. The following appear to be the
nearest approximation that can be made :
                                                         Heal amount

Sulphate of soda         15   ato--ms     x  72 =  1290  --  being
Muriate of soda                 --                           1290
Carbonate of soda          9              X 69= 021--
Carbonate of lime        12               x 54 = 648--       517
Carbonate of magnesia..  13 --                               630
                                          X50= 650-- 650
                         2 -- X 42 = 84 -- 86

    Here are some remarkable coincidences, it is true, but how are the propor
tions of the minor ingredients to be reconciled to such a formula r
               12 ·                 SIXTH REPORT 1836.

tuents of      how far such a law as that hinted at by Dobereiner could be
Mineral        reconciled with the idea of a gradual diminution taking place in
               the strength of the saline impregnation of a spring (which, ac-
fron-Tithrie^  cording to this view, ought to proceed, if at all, in regular pro
to time.       portions likewise), let us simply consider the weight of evidence
               in favour or against the permanency of mineral springs in this

Cases in       respect.             Bischof * states,  that the mineral contents  of
                  On the one hand,

which they the spring of Geilnau in the Taunus mountains, as determined
               ^y himself in 1826, agree in quantity with those existing there
observed"!
be constant,   thirty-three years before, if we believe the report of Amburger.

                  According to the same author, seventy- seven years have made
               no difference in the mineral impregnation of the spring of Fa-
               chingen in the same district, and the analysis of the water of
               Selters made thirty-eight years before by Westrumb corresponds
               very nearly with his own.

                  Berzelius too has shown, that the composition of the Carls
               bad waters accords with the results of the analysis of Klaproth

               made thirty-three years previously.
               But, on the other hand, the Steinbad at Toeplitz contains,
Cases in
which they according to the last chemist, scarcely half the quantity of fixed
are found to ingredients which were present in it, according to Ambrozzi,
               thirty-three years before, and even then it was suspected that a
               diminution from an antecedent period in its saline contents had

               taken place.

                  Wurzerf found the spring of Neundorf, in the wet summer of
               1833, more fully impregnated with saline matter and with sul
               phuretted hydrogen, than in the dry summer of 1814.

                  Klaproth detected in 1806 carbonate of soda, carbonate of
               magnesia, and silica in the mineral water of Riepoldsau. Sult-
               zer in 1811 could not discover in it one of the above ingre

               dients.
                  Westrumb in 1788 concluded, that in the Pyrmont water the
               saline matter was almost constant in quantity, being from 23
               to 24 grains in the pint, but that the proportion of the respective
                                    In March 1788 it contained rather more
               ingredients varied.
               alkaline salt, and rather less gypsum, than in June, July, and
               August ; but though the proportions of the respective salts might
               vary, the same principles always existed in it.

                  Struve X remarks, that almost every new analysis of the spring
               of Marienbad affords different results as to quantity, though the
               total amount of saline matter, and the nature of the acids and

               bases present, appear invariable.

               · VuVc. Miu. Qiidlen, p. 329.            t See Bischof, p. 331.
               J Kuustlicltcn A/ in. H'aaser, p. 15.
REPORT ON MINERAL AND THERMAL WATERS.                                                             13

Hermann * shows, that in the brine springs of Halle the quan
tity of muriate of magnesia has gone on progressively increasing,
and that of the muriate of lime diminishing, since 1798, whilst
in those of Schonbeck the sulphate of soda each year has under
gone a diminution.
   With respect to our own mineral waters, there is a general
impression, that the aperient springs, which rise so abundantly
Ifrom the lias, become weaker when long drawn upon, and it is

only in this way that can reconcile the extreme discrepancy
between the analyses of the same spring, at periods not very re
mote one from the other.

   Bischof remarks, that in some cases different results may have Mode of ac-
been obtained, owing to some variation in the circumstances c°untlnK for
under which the water had been drawn.
                                                                                                      ,ion
Supposing the well to have been just before exhausted, the

water obtained ought not to be expected to be so strongly im
pregnated as in common, because time had not been allowed for
that which had flowed in since to obtain its full complement of

saline ingredients.

   In this way he accounts for a discrepancy, between the quan
tity of sulphate and of muriate of soda, which he detected at
Roisdorf in September 1824, and in April 1825 ; and on the

same principle we may explain, why the Pyrmont water was
found to be more strongly impregnated before the season of

taking the waters, in May, than during June and July, the
Imonths of fashionable resort.

     may add, that if we suppose the respective salts to require
different times for their solution, it may be seen, why in some
cases the relative proportions of the saline ingredients have ap
peared to vary, whilst the total amount continued as before ; for
if,

                                        a
                                                                                               a
owing to the well having been just before much drawn upon,
the salts which required the longest time for their solution ex
isted in the water in smaller proportion than usual, that very

circumstance might enable the water to dissolve larger quan
tity of the remaining ones, so as to make good the deficiency,
and to render the total amount of fixed ingredients nearly the

same as usual.

Considering, therefore, the great uncertainty that exists with Method of
regard to this point in most cases, and the progressive condition nfn"TMj~g
of chemical analysis, which renders the results obtained at one question.
period scarcely capable of accurate comparison with those of a
succeeding one, were to be wished, that at each of the more
                it

                               *

                                                              p.
important mineral springs samples of the water were preserved
in bottles, hermetically, or at least very closely, sealed, to be

                          Bischof, 334.
             14 SIXTH REPORT 1836.

             opened at the expiration of a certain time, in order that an ana
             lysis should be made of       it,

                                                                               a
                                                                                                ;
                                           as well as of the water fresh taken

             from the spring, by some chemist of reputation which being
             done, and the results being duly registered, similar sample of
             the water might be set apart for examination after the lapse of
             Ifan equal interval of time.

                    this method were adopted, the question at issue might soon
             be determined beyond the possibility of doubt

Classifica       Writers on mineral waters have frequently attempted to clas
tion of Mi    sify them according to the nature of their ingredients, but these
neral Wa      unfortunately are so often found intermixed in all conceivable
              proportions, that no division of them into orders founded on
ters.
              such principle can be regarded as unexceptionable.
                 For medical purposes the most useful method would seem toaaa
                     ;a                              ;
              be, to select, as the groundwork of the classification, those sub;
             stances which stamp upon mineral water its peculiar value as;         ;

                 therapeutic agent, without regarding whether they are pre;
             dominant in quantity or not. Thus, as the most general di
             vision, we might distinguish them into, first, alkaline or carbo
             nated springs, containing certain proportion of carbonate of
             soda secondly, saline, rich in muriatic salts thirdly, aperient,

             containing the soluble sulphates fourthly, sulphureous, contain
             ing sulphuretted hydrogen.

                 The alkaline might then be subdivided into those with, and
             without iron the saline into those with, and without iodine and
             bromine the aperient into those containing the alkaline, the
             magnesian, and the aluminous sulphates the sulphureous into
             those with free sulphuretted hydrogen, or with the hydrosulphu-
             rets. Each of their subdivisions might then be distinguished
             into two sub-orders, the thermal and cold.

                 Such a classification might be convenient in medical treatise,
             but in scientific one we should frequently find ourselves em
             barrassed in assigning a place to spring, which, like those of
             the Pyrenees, partook strongly of the character of the alkaline
             class, whilst was at the same time sulphureous like that of
             Wiesbaden, whilst allied to the alkaline ones in its vicinity, was
             itself strongly saline or like the Carlsbad, Toeplitz, Bath, and
             Ems waters, seemed from its mineral constitution to possess an
             equal claim to admission into several of the classes established.
             a

                      it

                                               ;

                                                                 a
                                                                                        a

                                                                                                            ;

Ingredients     With respect to the particular ingredients which mineral waters
found in     contain, would seem superfluous to notice in the present Re
Mineral      port any, but those which have been either discovered, or newly
Waters.      investigated, within short period.

Iron with       Iron in new form of combination has been detected in the
Silica.      a it

                                    a
          REPORT ON MINERAL AND THERMAL WATERS.                                   15

springs of Lucca by Sir H. Davy*; the body combined with it
being, not the carbonic or sulphuric acid, but silica.
   Sir Humphry suggests, that the ochreous deposit so frequent
in hot springs, as at Mont Dor, Bath, &c, may be a similar
chemical compound, the iron originally existing in the state of
a protoxide, but passing into that of a peroxide upon exposure
to air.

Though the iron however is thrown down from the water in
this condition, it does not follow that it exists there in the same,
since, in proportion as the carbonic acid which had upheld it
escaped, the silica present in the water might begin to exert its
affinity, and be carried down along with the metal.
Iron has also been found by Dr. Thomson combined with Iron with
                       the mineral water of Mitchill in the parish of
muriatic acid in       Glasgow, and by Lachmund in the aluminous                         ^Iu"atlc
Nielstont, near
water of Buckowine in Lower Silesia J.
Manganese was discovered many years ago by Becher in the Manganese.
springs of Carlsbad ; and recent observations have shown that
it is by no means uncommon either in cold or in thermal waters.
Thus it has been found in the chalybeates of Pyrmont§, Ma-
rienbad, Seltzers, and Fachingen ; at Luxeuil near Paris || ; at
Adolphsberg in Sweden; and in several springs in Russia. Also
in the thermal waters of Carlsbad and Ems ; the sulphureous
ones of Neundorf and Eilsen ; the aperient ones of Seidschutz ;
          brine springs of Kreutznach.
and the    likewise been met with as a      deposit           from    the  thermal

  It has
water of Popayan in the Andes %.
Zinc combined with sulphuric acid has been found by Berze- Zinc.
lius in small quantities in a mineral water at Ronneby in Swe
den**, probably under circumstances similar to those, under
which copper is occasionally met with in streams flowing
through beds of copper pyrites.
                                                                                         stromian.
  ftStrontian has been detected in the chalybeates of Seltzer
and Pyrmont|t, and in                  the  thermal waters of Carlsbad,    Konig-
worth, Aix la Chapelle,                and                                 exist in
                                            Borset§§. It seems also to
small quantities in the springs of Bristol, it having been found,
as I am informed, in a stalagmitical deposit incrusting the pipes
that convey water to that city.

· Annates de Chimie, vol. xix. from the " Memoirs of the Academy of
Naples."
f Records of Science, vol. iii. p. 418.
§ See Bley, Taschenbuch for the German springs.               + Bley, Taschenbuch.

|·|·AnBnraatnesdods'e  Chimie,  1821.       *T Boussingault, Annates  de Chimie,  1833.
                       Archiv,
                                b. xiii. as quoted by Osann.
·ft Strove, Kunstlich Miner.                H Brandes' Pyrmonts Heilquellen.

§4 Bley's Taschenbuch.
            1G SIXTH REPORT -- 183G.

Barytes.                     Traces of barytes have likewise been detected by Brandes and

            Kruger in the chalybeate of Pyrmont, and by Berzelius in the
            thermal water of Carlsbad.
Potassa and Potass was found in that of Toeplitz * and of Konigsworth in
Lithia.     j; fBohemia ; in the water of Bourbon Lancy, by Pavis ; and in

            one of the Cheltenham waters, by Faraday whilst even Lithia
            has been discovered in several, as at Pyrmont in Westphalia § ;
            at Carlsbad Franzensbad, and Marienbad, in Bohemia; and
            at Rosheim near Strasburg^[.||,
Iodine and                               ;
Brominc.       The ingredients of salt springs in general have long been un-
            derstood to be the same, as those which were known to exist in

            tchipeleps,reisoednitneocaenadn,brboumt inuep,o--n               the discovery of   the                 two new prin
                                                                             iodine abundantly    in                various marine

            productions, and more sparingly in the ocean itself; bromine

            less                 icnomthme olantltyeri,n--deechdeministthse   former, but in   much                  larger quan
            tity                                                             were naturally   led to                inquire, whe

            ther the correspondence, that had before been traced between
            the actual and former constitution of these reservoirs of salt
            water extended also to the presence of the above two bodies in
                                 bionthc. ertaAinccosrpdriinngglsy ofAPnigeedlminionstea*r*cheVdogfoerl
            them                            ;                                                            and discovered
            iodine                                                                                       did the same at
            ffHeilbrunn in Bavaria                  it

                                                                a

                                                                                    ;
                                                and Turner at Bonington near Leith                                               ;

            whilst Boussingault met with in spring fifteen leagues from
            Popayan in the Andes, eighty or ninety miles from the sea, and

            JJ.10,000 feet above its level

               With regard to bromine, this principle was detected by Liebig
            at Kreutznach in the Palatinate §§ by Vogel at Rosenheim
            in Bavaria, and at Wiesbaden in Nassau 1}*j| by Desfosses at
            Salins, in the Department of the Jura***, and at Bourbon les
                                                                             ;
                                                                                                       ;

                                                                                                              ||||

            Bains, in France and            by  Stromeyer in various springs of the

            kingdom of Hanoverfff.
               Having also myself discovered bromine as well as iodine in
            several salt springs of South Britain, was led to prosecute an
                                                                             I

            extended examination of the principal ones, containing any con-

                             * Berzelius, Unlersuchung, translated in the Annates de Chimie, vol. xxviii.
                             Annates de Chimie, Nov. 1827.                                     Journal of Science.
            Illl §§ XI 5T § tBrandes and Kruger.                                         Kastner's Archiv, b. vi.
                                                                                         ||

                                                                                               t

                             **  Edinburgh New Philosophical    Journal, for Oct.        1836.                      des Baiern,  1825.
                                 Journal des Mines, vol. viii.           XT Mineral       Quellen
                                                                                                                    Institution, N. S.
                    Annates de Chimie, vol. v. 1833,                         or Journal  of the Royal

            vol. iii., from Dr. Mill."

                                 Annates de Chimie for 182G, p. 330.
            tttMineral Quellen des K. Baiern.                                                                       vol. xiii.
                                                                                  1T*[ Kastner's Archiv,            in which
            **· Ferussac's Bull, part viii.
                    See Schweigger's Journal, 1827, for                      "A List of the Localities

            Bromine had been detected."
         REPORT ON MINERAL AND THERMAL WATEUS.                                17

siderable quantity of common salt, which are distributed through
the several rocks of this country, beginning my search with the
Silurian formations of Wales, and terminating it with the ter
tiary deposits of the London basin.

ianndItnhwethhpiecahptearibsuIlnaporrwevsieepnwutebodlifsththoeedthceoinnRstotihtyueaeilrntSsTorcaioenftsytahc*etsiooennsstp,hrainItgssshuobgwjievecedtn,,
that although the proportions of the respective ingredients might
vary, yet that as regards their quality, an almost entire corre

spondence must have obtained between the earliest accumula
tions o: salt water and the existing ones, judging from the occa
sional presence of iodine and bromine in those of all ages.
Thus both these principles were found in waters issuing from
the Silurian slates of Llaudrindod and Bualt in Radnorshire,

and bromine, but not iodine, in those from the coal formation
of Ashby de la Zouch, Newcastle-on-Tyne, and Kings wood.
Both principles exist in the springs issuing from lias, at Leam
ington, Gloucester, Tewkesbury, and Cheltenham ; whilst in
the aperient saline waters of Melksham, Epsom, and London, all
of which are connected with newer rocks, iodine appeared to be
                                                 of bromine were
altoItgerethmearinwsantotinbge,  though traces   a more extensive  detected.  of
                                 ascertained by                    induction

particulars than that hitherto made, whether iodine is commonly
deficient in springs connected with the more recent deposits ; as
such a fact, combined with that of its scanty occurrence in our
present seas, and its comparative abundance in strata of older
date, might lead to some curious geological inferences.
   The proportion of iodine to water in different springs,         I        found

to vary from                     part; and to the chlorine present

in it from II"      2,000,000    springs, however, the proportion
   In several of                 Thus, there have been found, in a
                  the German
appears to be much larger f.
pint of the salt spring of

                                    Muriate Muriate of Mag         Hydrio.
                                    of Soda. of Lime nesia.        date of
                                                                     Soda.

         Hall                       10514 3-356                    0529

                                    73-450 2-570 8-780             0-590
                                    59-675 11-758 4-124            0-043

IIn the springs                  examined, the proportion of bromine to

^water varied from               to "liTSoo Part> an^ to *"e chlorine from ^

to it%.

         t* Philosophical Transactions, 1830.

            Osann, Ueber lod- mid Brorn-haltige Mm. Quellen.
vol. v.-- 1836.                  c
18 SIXTH RKPOBT -- 1836.

  The water however in which I discovered the largest quantity

of bromine in proportion to its saline contents was that of
Ashby de la Zouch, which contained only 179 grains of solid
matter in the pint, and yet yielded more than half a grain of
this principle.

   This latter result has been confirmed by Dr. Ure in a memoir
on these springs published in the Philosophical Transactions
for 1833.

   With respect to the salt springs of Germany, the following
proportions of bromine and of other ingredients are contained
in a pint of the water of each according to Osann.

                    Muriate                 Muriate  Muriate  "J*TM-  Hydro-
                        of                     of    of Mag
                                                      nolia.
                      Soda.                  Lime.

Brine spring of Ragozi at Kissingpn 62-050           6-850 0-7000
I 'and ur ditto...                                   5-850 0-6800
                    57-000

Hall                10-514] 3-356                                     04140
Luhatschowitz       18-370                                            00410

   The entire absence both of iodine and bromine from a few of
the very strongest brine springs we possess, those for example
of Droitwich in Worcestershire, as was originally stated by
myself, and as has been since confirmed by Dr. Hastings in
his Memoir on that subject *, may be explained by considering,
that in these same waters likwvise all the more soluble salts
present in the sea are of sparing occurrence.

    Hence the masses of salt, to which these springs owe their
impregnation, may have been the first deposits from the satu
rated brine, and therefore contain chiefly muriate of soda.

   Agreeably with this explanation we find, that the lowest sali-
ferous strata in Cheshire consist of perfectly transparent rock
salt, without a trace either of iodine or of bromine, whilst the

more deliquescent muriates, together with combinations of these
latter principles, are found plentifully in the clays and marls
above.

   It may at first sight appear doubtful, whether the saline ape

rients existing in the lias ought to be classed amongst brine
springs, considering the larger proportion of alkaline sulphates
and of muriate of lime belonging to them.

   In a medical point of view clearly they ought not to be so re

garded; for their most active, though not always their predomi
nant ingredients, are those very sulphates, which do not exist,
except in minute quantity, in brine springs properly so called.

On the Salt Springs of Worcestershire. Worcester, 1835.
       REPORT ON MINERAL AND THERMAL WATERS.                           19

    But looking to their origin, or the materials from which they
are derived, they must be grouped with salt springs of the com

IwmhoennmkIianysdt,aataeps,peItahhlaatvinetdheeseshedowwtnoatientrhset,helaikumethetmohreoitirygeaonlrufeinaMedyr.bqrMuinouetrecdhs.ipsroinngs*

of Cheshire and Worcestershire, rise out of the new red sand
stone formation. Hence it is probable, that their original con

stitution is analogous, but that during the passage of the
water upwards through cracks and fissures in the lias clays
overlying, the iron pyrites, which i3 so abundant in that stratum,
supplies it by its gradual decomposition with the sulphuric acid
found amongst its ingredients.

    That sulphuretted hydrogen is generated in the vicinity of
these springs, we are assured, not only from the minute quan
tity of this gas observed in one or two of the Cheltenham and
Leamington waters, but also from the strong impregnation of the
spring of Willoughby in Warwickshire, as noticed by myself,
and of that of Haslar in Worcestershire, reported by Dr. Hast

ings f.

   Now, if we grant the sulphuric acid to be derived from this

source, the other differences between these saline aperients, and
brine springs properly so called, will admit of an easy solution.

    The sulphuric acid, acting upon the several muriates, would
form with their bases those earthy and alkaline sulphates on
which their medicinal qualities chiefly depend ; whilst the free
muriatic acid disengaged, attacking the calcareous rocks, would
give rise to the production of the increased quantity of muriate
of lime present in them.

With respect, therefore, to the origin of the above ingredients
                               has added little  to the general    principle laid
mdoowdnerbnydPislcinovye,ry"  Tales sunt aquae,  qualis terra per  quam fluunt."
For it seems needless to attempt tracing them further than the
rocks from which the springs themselves issue.
   But there are other substances of occasional occurrence that

cannot be referred to this source, so immediately, or without a
more particular inquiry into the circumstances of their appear

ance.
Of this description are two acids discovered recently in mi- Phosphoric
neral waters, namely, the phosphoric,            and the fluoric, an addition
to our knowledge for which we are                indebted to the analytical                                                                      ^dd..'"0"0

skill of Berzelius. Subsequently, the former substance has

       · Proceedings of the Geological Society,       vol. i. p. 390.
       t Salt Springs of Worcestershire, p. 9-

                                                  c2
           20 SIXTH REPORT -- 1836.

           been detected in the following springs amongst others, viz.
           the chalybeate of Hofgeismar by Wurzer, that of Pyrmont by
           Brandes, and that of Selters by Gustavus Bischoff; and the
           latter principle at Carlsbad, Selters, Ems, Wiesbaden, and
           Gastein.
               Now though phosphoric acid is not generally stated as a con
           Istituent of the rocks through which these springs have to pass,

           yet am inclined to believe, that it exists in minute proportions
           Iin very many of those that contain organic remains.

                 have myself found traces of it in several secondary lime
           stones ; and its existence there may be ascribed, not merely to
           the coprolites which these strata sometimes envelop, and which
           are found more or less in formations, even as high in the series
                             rocks of this country, but likewise to  othf efisbhoenses*
           as  the Silurian  coverings of Crustacea, and the scales
               animals, the
           of

           distributed through them.
               In granitic rocks its presence is equally implied by the occur
           rence of minerals in which it constitutes the acidifying principle.
               The fluoric acid exists in the teeth of animals, but it would
           be absurd to attribute an organic source to its presence in the
           strata. Its origin must be looked for in the minerals which the
           primary crystalline rocks contain. Thus mica and amphibole
           have been shown by Bonsdorff often to contain small portions
           of this acidf, and fluate of lime is to be met with occasionally
           both in primary and secondary formations.
               There is a class of springs, very common in some countries,
Carbonate  though scarcely found in England, which owes its peculiar pro
of Soda.

           perties to the presence of a portion of soda, often associated
           with protoxide of iron, both of which are held in combination
           by carbonic acid.
               Now as carbonate of soda does not exist in any of the strata
           with which we are acquainted, its occurrence cannot be so im
           mediately referred to the latter ; and yet the quantity drawn from
           Jthe bowels of the earth by the agency of springs must be very

           considerable, for Gilbert calculates, that the water given out
           in a single year by the Carlsbad waters alone contains more
           than thirteen million pounds of carbonate of soda, and about
           twenty million pounds of its sulphate, so that we may fairly
           reckon the annual amount of alkali extracted, under one or the

           Other of these forms, to be as much as 6,746,050 pounds.

              · See Notice of Mr. Conner's Paper in the Fifth Report of the British As.

           sanation, p. 4 1 .

             t Edinburgh Philosophical Journal, vol. iv,
              | Amialen, vol. Ixxiv. p. 198.
REPORT ON MINERAL AND THERMAL WATERS.                             J2I

But it has been observed, that mineral waters of this descrip- Mode of ac
tion occur in many instances in      connexion with felspathic
rocks, issuing either from primary  strata, or else from volcanic                                                                                                    fo"'^'"8

materials.
   Now common felspar* consists, according to Dr. Thomson,
{Outlines of Mineralogy, 1836, vol. i, p. 295,) of one atom of
trisilicate of potass, united to three atoms of trisilicate of alu
mina; glassy felspar of one atom of trisilicate of potass and
soda, to four of trisilicate of alumina ; whilst in albite, a mineral
in which the ingredients are in the same proportions as in com
mon felspar, the potass is altogether replaced by soda.
This latter alkali is therefore commonly traced to the felspa
thic rocks in contact with these waters ; and, without going into
the elaborate calculations which Professor Bischof has thought
lfmeitsocdthoearuiantsetinitduittmhee-e)-n,Bsioobhnyes,mw--aiaynthoMef iDtsthoeonlgwneeinbrbgiru,gretgh,,a--tfocaronestxianaignmlseplesm,odonauenaetranionMugiloh-f
to impregnate the Carlsbad water for the space of 35,394 years,

it will be readily granted, that where a spring is in connexion
with volcanic or trappean materials, there can be no want of
alkali, to supply it for any conceivable length of time with that
portion, which is found belonging to its constitution.
But three questions still remain to be determined, before the
source of the alkali can be regarded as explained.
1st. By what process does the thermal water separate this
material from its combination ?

2udly. Why does not the same force which extracts the soda,
also cause the separation of a portion of the potass, with which
granitic rocks at least are still more abundantly charged ?
   3rdly. How does the spring obtain its soda at all, in cases
where it rises, either from granitic rocks containing only com
mon felspar, and therefore no other alkali than potass, or from
slates and other rocks that are destitute of alkali altogether ?
The first of these difficulties has been elucidated, by the expe-

   * The composition of these minerals may be expressed with greater clear
ness symbolically, thus :

                  Common Felspar (K +3 Si) +3 (At + 3 Si),

            Glassy Felspar . I . > + 3 Si. 1 + 4 (Al + 3 Si),

            Albite  (N + 3 Si) + 3 (Al + 3 Si).

t Vulk. Mineral, p. 322. et seq.
             22 SIXTH REPORT 1836.

             riments of Bischof and Struve, and by the observations of
             Turner.

                Bischof has stated*, that even long-continued boiling in water
             will separate the alkali from a mass of trass or volcanic tuff,
             but that the process is facilitated by the presence of carbonic
             acid ; so that he conceives the disintegration of felspathic rocks
             to be brought about by water impregnated with that ingredient.

               fDr. Struve of Dresden, known for his imitations of some of

             the most noted mineral springs in Germany, informs us, that
             he has extracted alkali from granite, by merely filling a tall ves
             sel with small fragments of the stone, pouring upon it distilled
             water, and suffering a stream of carbonic acid gas to rise slowly
             through the materials, and to diffuse itself amongst the water

             filling the interstices between them.
             Turner likewise has pointed out the action of carbonic acid
             and water on such substances in his Lecture on the Chemistry
             of Geology, which   will
                With respect to        sbeecoanfdterdwiaffridcsultaydJv,ertiet dhatos.     been   argued,
                                 the

             that the majority of these springs arise from volcanic rocks in
             which glassy felspar predominates ; that when they spring from
             granite, they have been ascertained, in some instances to con
             tain potass as well as soda, as is the case at Carlsbad, and at
             Schonau near Toeplitz ; and in others soda alone, as at Adolphs-
             burg and Porla in Sweden.

                It has also been remarked, that granite, in which albite has

             taken the place of common felspar, is more decomposable than
             usual §, so that if the water of a thermal spring were to traverse
             a rock consisting, partly of the one kind of granite, and partly
             of the other, it might dissolve the soda without affecting the

             potIatssh.as been further suggested by Bischof, that in many of

             the analyses which have been made, potass may have been mis
             taken for soda, and that the former is, in fact, a much more

             common ingredient in mineral waters than has hitherto been

Objections   suspected.
to this ex-     Bischof also sees a reason for deriving the alkali from the
planation.
             contiguous strata, in the circumstance, that the thermal springs
             of the Alps, which arise in general from primary rocks, contain
             little or no carbonate of soda.

                To these considerations it may be replied :
                 1. That the quantity of potass in the Carlsbad springs is too
             inconsiderable to affect the argument ; for it was only by a mi-

             * P. 305.                                f Ueber Kmut. Min. Quelle*, vol. ii.
             J  See these arguments detailed in full  "incBruismcbhloinrgsWfeolsrpkars.o"
                Hence sometimes distinguished as                                           often  alluded to.
             §
        REPORT ON MINERAL AND THERMAL WATERS.                 23

nute examination of the sprudelstein, the deposit from the waters,
that Berzelius was able to detect its presence, whilst in the
water itself much carbonate of soda, but no potass, was discer
nible.

2. That the detection of potass in the Swedish mineral waters
only increases the difficulty of explaining, why springs, which,
like those of Carlsbad, rise also from granite, contain so very
small a quantity of the so-called vegetable alkali, whilst they
axe thus strongly impregnated with the mineral one.
3. That the alkaline springs alluded to ought to be shown
to proceed uniformly from a rock containing albite, before any

legitimate inference can be deduced from the alleged difference,
as to the facility of disintegration, between this and other kinds
of granite.
   4. That although it is conceivable that one alkali may have
been mistaken for the other by the older analysts, it can hardly
be suspected that chemists like Berzelius, or even Anglada,
could have been guilty of such an error with respect to the

springe they had examined.
   5. That although none of the thermal springs of the Alps,
with the exception of Yverdun, are represented as containing
natron, yet all of them are fraught with other salts of soda, and
some of them with salts of potass, so that probably the earthy
matter present existed in the water in the state of a muriate or
a sulphate, whilst the carbonic acid, together with which they
were thrown down on boiling, was united in the water with a
portion of that soda, which the analyst represents as being
combined with some other acid.
Thus tbe composition of the water of Baden, in the canton
of Argau, is stated by Bauhof as follows :
In 300 ounces of the water,
                                            48 cubic inches.
       Carbonic acid                        traces.

  ....Sulphuretted hydrogen
        Sulphate of lime     .... 233 grains.
        Muriate of soda                      186 ,,
        Muriate of magnesia                 51 ,,
        ....Sulphate of soda                48 ,,
                                            ."?(>,,
        Lime                                31 ,,
        Sulphate of magnesia                11 ,,
        Magnesia
        Extractive matter                   3 ,,
                                            1,,
        Oxide of iron

   Now doubtless Bauhoff here meant to express, that the
lime and magnesia were thrown down combined with the car
             2i SIXTH REPORT 18.36.

             bonic acid ; but when we perceive the large proportion of soda
             indicated by the analysis, it seems quite as probable that these
             earths existed in the water as muriates or sulphates, and that
             they were precipitated in the state of carbonates by the car
             bonate of soda, on concentrating the solution.
             The same explanation may be extended to the cases of Schinz-
             nach, Weissenburg, Pfeffers, and Loueche amongst the thermal,

             and to Gurnigel and Engistein amongst the cold carbonated
             springs ; whilst at Fideris, Tarasp, Luxemburg (in Thurgau),
             and others, carbonate of soda is stated as abundant.
             But the greatest difficulty, as appears to me, is presented by
             the thermal waters of the Pyrenees, which are for the most part
             richly impregnated with soda, and yet are derived exclusively
             from granitic rocks, or others equally destitute of mineral alkali.
             Should future observations, direcled expressly to these parti
             cular points, substantiate the fact of the entire absence of potass
             Ifrom these springs, and that of the scanty presence of soda in

             the rocks with which they are connected, apprehend the hypo
             tshueitsistheofcBasieschoof f",               as it                            well as it may
                                              plausible           mwaaytesrse,em" ,maunsdt
                                              volcanic   mineral                            be abandoned,

             and the same theory be extended to the carbonate of soda, which

             we have already applied, to the boracic acid present in the La-
             goni of Tuscany, and to the common salt exhaled from the cra
             ters of volcanos.

             There seems at least no absurdity in supposing, that
New The-   i"n                                                                              as
                           *

                                              a
                                                 is
                                                                                                                   is

                                                                                                                  if,

                                                                                   I
ory propo- shall afterwards attempt to show, thermal springs owe their
·"'· temperature to steam and gases given out by volcanic processes
             carried on underneath, the former may carry with it, not only
             boracic acid, but also soda, which, in its passage upwards, might
             enter into combination with the muriatic, the sulphuric, the
             carbonic, or any other acid that was present.
                We need not however resort to any such hypothesis in order
Origin of    ^q account for the occasional presence of carbonate of soda in
the Carbo-   secondary strata. In salt lakes which become nearly dry in
             summer, portion of natron will often result, either from the de-
    rertain  composition of the muriate of soda by calcareous matter, in con
neeondary    sequence, as supposed, of the operation of the law of Berthol-
rocks,

             let with respect to the influence of the mass, or, as more pro
             bable, from the conversion of sulphate of soda by organic mat
             ter into sulphuret, and the decomposition of the latter by the
             earthy carbonate. To one or other of these causes we ascribe
             the natron of Hungary, and perhaps that existing in certain
             mineral waters of Bavaria, said to be remote from volcanic or

             trappean rocks.
             In the cases hitherto mentioned, the alkali has been supposed
Soda with-
          REPOaT ON MINERAL AND THERMAL WATKRS.                                           25

to be united with carbonic acid, and this is stated as being the out Car
casLeopinj'cthaemmpaj*orhitoyweovfetrheasmseirntes,ratlhsapt riinngcsertthaaitn           it.
                                                                                 contain  thermal  !*"j.,c  ^cld
                                                                                  of the                     "g3'

waters of t:ie high Pyrenees, as at Bareges, Cauterets, St. Sau-
veur, and the like, the soda exists in an unconibined form, and
that to ' his must be attributed the peculiar action it exerts upon
the cuticle, causing the water to feel soapy and unctuous to those
who bathe in it.

  |Angldda questions this assertion, on the faith of experiments

made by Irm on some of these waters that had been sent him,
(as he says) carefully corked; but trials of such a description
cannot of course be put into competition with others instituted,

as those of M. Longchamp appear to have been, on the spot,
granting both the individuals to be competent authorities on
Ithe point.
      may also  state, in confirmation of    ILotnegstcehdamthep'swaetevridefnrecseh,
that being at   Barege some years ago,
drawn from the well with a solution of baryta, and found no
cloudiness to be produced till after it had stood some little time
exposed to the air, whilst after the addition of lime-water a
still longer period elapsed before any indication of carbonic

acid appeared.

   The experiment was tried with the same success at St.
Sauveur.
Dr. Turner has also stated %, that the springs of Pinnarkoon
and Loorgootha in India, which were examined by him, contain
soda uncombined with an acid ;
the statement of Dr. Black, who  and         Faraday § has confirmed
                                 long        ago reported the soda of
the Iceland springs as being in that condition.
   Now, as in many of these springs no carbonic acid is pre
sent, and as the alkaline salt existing in the rock from which
they emerge is not a carbonate, but a silicate, we can better un
derstand the possibility of the soda being found in the condition
}{                          adopting the theory of Bischof, we refer to
stated, even                     ;
                 is if,
                          of                                  it
the rock in connexion with the spring whilst those who lean to
the contrary hypothesis, and trace the alkali to the very seat of
the volcanic action which causes the high temperature, will be
able still more readily to account for its appearance in that
form.
Silica appears to be an universal ingredient in thermal Silica, its
springs, and perhaps present in more minute quantities even in °ri|?n m
those of all temperatures.                                                                         prmg».

· Annates de Chimie, vol. xxii.              f  Mcmoires, p. 302.
   Edinb. Journal Science, No. xvii. p. 97.
  Barrow's Visit to Ireland in 1835.
          26 SIXTH RKPORT -- 1836.

             Its existence in the epidermis of most monocotyledonous
          plants proves, that it must be held in solution by the descend
          ing sap ; and the latter, in whatever way it may be supposed to
          be elaborated within the texture of the plant, can only obtain its
          earthy principles from the water which happens to encircle the

          roots.

How far ex- On the fact of its solution in water, Turner has lately made
plained.  80me observations in his Lecture on the Chemistry of Geology*.
             He has shown, that water must have the property of dissolv
          ing silica, by contrasting the chemical composition of felspar
          with that of the porcelain clay which results from its decompo
          sition.
                       aa                                     consists of one atom of trisi-

                                                         it,
              The former, as he represents
          licate of potass, with one atom of silicate of alumina, in the pro
          portion of nine of silica to one of alumina; whilst porcelain
          clay consists of seven atoms of silica to two of alumina, or as
          three and half to onef.
             Hence water had carried off in some way all the potass, and
          eight and half out of twelve proportionals of the silica, leaving

          all the alumina and the remainder of the silica untouched.

             Now the solution of the silica may be referred in general to
          its being exposed, at the moment of its disengagement from its
          existing combination, to the joint action of water and alkali.
              But seems to admit of question, whether the latter be
          I

                   it
          really essential to the process.
                have myself found coating of substance like hyalite in
          the fissures of rock in the island of Ischia, through which hota
                       a    a                                 a
                                                                                    a
          vapours were constantly issuing, and am at loss to refer
              to any other cause, except the gradual solution of silica in the
          it

          first instance by the steam, and its precipitation afterwards
          from it.

          I   have also found, in soft state, coating fissures in a tra-

          chytic rock, near Schemnitz in Hungary, what appeared to be
          silex   hardening into the   --coanndiotbiosnervoaftiohnyailnitew, hicmh inefrinadl                                       occur
          ring   in many places near,                                                                                         a     myself

                                                                                                                                 I

          to be anticipated by M. Beudant.
              Dr Wollaston indeed had observed, and Dr. Turner confirms

              Phil. Magazine, 1833, vol. iii. p. 20.
              Represented symbolically thus
          t·

                           +

                                     3

                              +

                                              3

                                        +
                                                 Si

                                                   ++

                                                                              9
                                                                                   :

                                                                                                                           ;
                       (K Si) + (Al Si) Felspar,

                          (Al 3* Si) Porcelain Clay

          so that (K   Si) 5^ have been removed, and only 3i Si remain.
            REI'ORT ON MINERAL AND TIIKHMAL WATERS.                    27

the truth of the remark, that steam under high pressure be
comes a rapid solvent of alkaline silicates.
The latter chemist even found*, that glass exposed to the va
pour issuing from an high-pressure engine was rapidly corroded,
and that the silica taken up was again deposited in a beautiful
staIltachtoitwiceavlerforremm.ains open to further inquiry --
                                                                                  How far
1st, What is the solvent of silica in springs which contain no unaccount-
free alkali :                                                                     ed for-

2nd, By what means it is held in solution by the sap of ve

getables :

   3rd, What are the circumstances which interfere with its

solution by artificial means.       I may allude      to an interesting

   With reference to this subject,
memoir by Professor Fuchs, on the amorphism of solid bodiesf ,
as throwing some light upon the question as to the solubility of
silex, and illustrating the influence in this case of mechanical

obstacles upon chemical affinities.

   He has shown, that silica exists in minerals in two condi
tions, a crystallized and an amorphous one, and that in the
latter it is much more readily acted upon by solvents, than in
the former^.

   Dr. Turner also found, that whilst glass was rapidly dissolved

Itby high-pressure steam, rock crystal remained unchanged.
         would have been curious to determine, whether under such
circumstances, amorphous silex (such as opal) would continue
untouched.

Muriatic and sulphuric acids in a free state are found only in Muriatic
springs counected with volcanos, to which they are obviously and ?ul-

referable.                                    in a thermal     spring  of         Ahc"d"c
   Boracic acid, which has been detected                                          Boracic

the island of Ischia, and more abundantly in the water of the Acid-
            of Tuscany,
LagItonisi  well known   seems also to be a volcanic   product.   in the
                         as resulting from volcanic   operations
Lipari Islands and elsewhere ; and its appearance in their craters

  t* Proceedings of the Geol. Soc, vol. ii. p. 95.

      Edinb. New PWos. Journal for April, 1835.

  J A recent traveller in Iceland (Knigvon Nidda) in Karsten's Archiv, vol. ix.,

remarks, "that the solubility of the silica in such considerable quantity in
the hot springs of Iceland, remained for a long time a puzzling phenome
non, until that property was discovered, which it has in common with
phosphoric acid. viz. of forming two isomeric modifications, of which one is
insoluble in water and in acids ; the other is soluble in both." This may
be tine ; but the statement must be regarded as a mere expression of a fact,
not as the explanation of it.
         28 SIXTH REPORT 1836.

         becomes intelligible, when we reflect, that although dry boracic
         acid continues fixed at high temperatures, yet when steam is
                        it at  a red heat, a portion of tlte acid is                      sub
         passed  over   have   myself ascertained by experiment.      always
         limed,
                 as I
         Whether the same explanation will apply to the case of the
         lakes of Thibet, whence so large a quantity of borate of soda is

         obtained, future travellers must determine.

Nitric Acid. Nitric acid, united probably with potass (this alkali being
             found along with il), sometimes occurs in the springs of large
         towns, as observed by Pagenstecher* in those of Berne, and by
         Berzelius in those of Stockholmf.
            There is also a tract in Hungary, included betwixt the Car
         pathians and the river Dran, throughout which all the springs
         are said to be impregnated with this ingredientj.
         The spontaneous production of nitre, wherever organic matter
         in a state of decomposition remains in contact with calcareous
         rocks, or with earth containing carbonate of lime, may suffi
         ciently account for its existence in such springs as these, which
         probably owe their origin rather to superficial than to deep-
         seated causes.

            It remains, however, to be inquired, whether the same ex
         planation can be extended to the waters of St. Alban, Dep. de
         Loire§, and of Miinchhof|| in Germany, in both of which nitre
         is said to be present, and that not, as in the former cases, in

         variable, but in fixed proportions.
         Can we attribute to the same decomposition of organic mat
Ammonia

in Springs. j.er tne presence 0f ammonia in certain mineral waters ?

            Scherer^f mentions a sulphureous spring in Courland, which

         ftcontains it in union with the muriatic acid; and Osann** one

         at Raab in Hungary ; whilst Berzelius notices its occurrence
         in the mineral waters of Porla, united with a peculiar acid, the
         crenic, which will be noticed presently.
         Longchamp also states, that there are traces of it in some of
         the thermal springs of the Pyrenees ; but he does not state in
         what state of combination it occurs.
         Professor Fischerff of Breslau has detected it in combination
         with carbonic acid in the thermal water of Warmbrunn, in

         · Ueberaickt der Bestandth. der Brunnen der Stadt Bent.
         T Osann, vol. i. p. 92.                            * Ibid.
         § Patissier Manuel di'S Eau.r Minerales, p. 280.
         i| Schweigger, Journal, vol. xlv.
                                                                             *· Page 85.
         JJHft   Page   ISO.       vol.  vi.  p.  239.  Heilquellen, 1836.
                        Magazine,
                 Phil.

                 Groel'e, Jahrbucucr fur Deutchlands
REPORT ON MINERAL AND THERMAL WATERS.                                                   29

Silesia; Wetzler* in the cold spring of Krumbach, in Bava

ria; and Kastnerf in that of Kissingen, in the same kingdom.
The water of Clinton, near New York, is likewise stated to

conIttaminayfi,veingderaeidn,s  of  carbonate  of ammonia in the     gallon];.
                                    suspected  that this principle   is in reality
                                be
of still more frequent occurrence, and that chemists have ofcen
overlooked its presence, in consequence of having driven it off
hy the heat which, in analysing the water, they had in the first
instance applied.
   Now in many of the above instances,         I should              be disposed        to

Iascribe the occurrence of ammonia to causes of the same de

scription, with those which suppose to have given rise to it
when found issuing from the spiracles of volcanos, especially as
it is remarkable that, although the evolution of nitrogen gas
and of ammoniacal compounds in a few rare instances occurs
simultaneously, yet for the most part the two in a manner take
each other's place, the volatile alkali being abundant in active
volcanos, where nitrogen gas is not common, and scanty and un-
frequent in the thermal springs of primary countries, where

nitrogen gas is so generally disengaged.
   My own views respecting the formation of ammonia in vol
canos are stated in my Memoir on the eruption of Vesuvius in
1834, published in the Philosophical           Transactions, and will be
elsewhere referred to in this Report ;
                                               but I should be unwilling
to extend them beyond the case of those springs which, judging
from their temperature, appear connected with volcanic action,
and from their purity, or freedom from organic matter, cannot
be supposed capable of generating ammonia by any process of
Ianimal or vegetable fermentation.

   To these latter causes should of course refer the presence
of ammoniacal compounds in those waters, which, from their
contiguity to large cities, or from their own impure condition,
seem to contain in themselves the elements from which the

volatile alkali might be generated.

   Whilst speaking of ingredients which may                          sbperisnugssp,ecItemd ustot
arise from the presence of organic matter in
state, that formic acid is said to have been detected in the waters Formic
of Prinzhofen near Staubing§, and at Brunnen near Emkirchen, Acld-
four or five leagues from Erlangen both in Bavaria; and acetic Acetic Acid.
§\

                              in
                                                                ||,

                                                 || t
· Kastner'g Arckiv, vol. x.                                        Archiv, vol. xxvi.
  Silliman's Journal, vol. xviii.                                  Archiv, vol. xxiii.

   Patteuhofer, Kastner's Arckiv, vol. vii.
              30 SIXTH RKPORT -- 1836.

              acid in a spring at Craveggia in Piedmont, by Vauqnelin ; and
              also in those of Ronneberg*, and Bruchenau in Bavaria.
              More recently Berzelius has described two new vegetable
Crenic and

Apocrenic     acids in the springs of Porlaf in Sweden, to which he has given
Acids.        the names of the crenic and the apocrenic, both derived from

              an organic matter present in the water, the crenic first, the
              apocrenic from the other by the action of oxygen.
              Crenic acid does not crystallize, but its solution in water
              concentrated to the consistence of a syrup is almost colourless.
              When dried in vacuo it splits in all directions, and its taste is
              then distinctly acid and astringent. Though a weak acid, it
              decomposes the acetates, and combines with the alkalis and
              alkaline earths. Most of them are insoluble in water, but the

              protocrenate of iron is soluble.
              The apocrenic acid imparts a brownish colour to water, in
              which it is but slightly soluble. Its salts resemble the crenates,
              but are either brown or black, and are insoluble in alcohol.
              They combine with hydrate of alumina when digested with
              it,

                                     a

                                J, it

                                                  §.
                                                                                     it,
              and form colourless solution.

              These two acids were found in several chalybeate waters in
              Sweden, and may be separated from the ochre which they de
              posit by boiling with potass.
              The crenic acid or one much resembling
                                                                                          has since been

              detected by Professor Fischer of Breslau in the mineral spring
              of Landeck in Silesia

Organic       The above acids may possibly have some connexion w ith an

matter in     organic substance found in              most thermal                 and  many    cold springs,
              which has excited much                  speculation,                 and  been    supposed to
Springs.
Glairine, or
so called possess important medicinal qualities. We owe the first accurate
animal        information respecting to Bayen who, in 1765, published an
matter.       account of the mineral water of Luchon, in the Pyrenees, in
                                                      it

                                                                            a ||,
              which he discriminated this flocculent matter from the sulphur

              also present.

                 In 1786 Dr. Willan^f described white mucous substance ex
              isting in the waters of Croft, in the county of Durham, which

              · Dobereiner in Kastner's Archiv, vol. xvi.
                  Phil. Magazine, vol. vi. p. 239.
              J+                                      said, been found to be an ingredient of
                  The crenic acid has lately,
                                                      it
                                                                    it
                                                                          is

                                                                                                                 ||
                                                                                                                               is
              the Bergmehl of Lapland, which the natives in times of scarcity mix with
              their flour, considering to contain nutriment. This material stated to be
              chiefly made up of the outer shells of fossil infusoria, together with some
              animal   mtoa. --ttePrhpirl.obMaabgly.  derived from their                        and of the acid
              alluded                                 for April 1837.     internal  substance,

              %§  Jahrbucher Deuisr.hldnds Heilguellen.                                 Opuscule* Chemiques.
                  On Croft and Harrogate Waters. London, 1786.
            REPORT ON MINERAL AND THERMAL WATERS.                                             31

had likewise been confounded with the sulphur given out by the
same springs.
   In a recent visit to Croft  I found   this substance                     in abundance,

and traced it as far as the water flowing from the spring retained
its sulphureous odour, but not when the latter was dissipated.

   Mr. Dillwyn, in his work on British Confervie*, notices the
same as occurring, not only at Croft, but likewise at Harrogate
in Yorkshire, and Llanwrtyd in South Wales, all of them springs
of similar composition, and determined the substance to be a
Conferva, which, from its whiteness, he denominated Nivea.
In the thermal spring of Bath a Conferva of a different species
abounds, which, from its colour and appearance, used to be
called Bath sulphur, although not a particle of this latter prin
ciple exists in these waters.

  It seems, therefore, to be generally agreed, that the mucous
matter found in the mineral waters of this country is owing to
the generation of organized beings ; but with respect to that
met with amongst thermal and other springs in various parts of
the Continent,                           ofinopainmioenmosiurbsi"stSs.ur
   On the one   no such correspondence                                                        la
                hand, Bory St. Vincent,
Botanique des Eauxf," appears to attribute it in every instance
to the growth of a certain class of Conferva?, to which he has
given the name of Anabaina.
   To this opinion also M. Delarive, in his memoir on the springs

of St. GervaisJ, adheres ; and I am informed by Professor De-

candolle, that the waters of Acqui in Piedmont were examined
by him with reference to this point, and that he always found
himself able to detect in the so-called animal matter which

abounds there an organic structure.

  IMany chemists, on the other hand, have taken up a contrary

view of this subject, amongst whom may instance Professor
Anglada|| of Montpellier, who, in his elaborate work on the
mineral waters of the Eastern Pyrenees, has given a detailed
description of its properties, as presented in the localities he has

specified.                                                                    glairine, from  its
gluTthineoussubostrajneclely-ilnikqeueasptpioenarahneced. enoImt inwaatses  observed by him   in   Described,

cold as well as hot sulphureous springs, in all nearly fifty in

number. It occurs in flocks, in threads, having the character
of mucus, or of membrane, in compact concentric coats or

\· P. 54.
   Bulletin de la Soci^tS Philomatique, et Diclionnaire Classique d'HUtoire
Naturelle, art. Arthrodi.«.
                                         || Memoirei pour servir, &c, vol. i.
  J Bibliothique UniverteUe, vol. xxii.
           32 SIXTH REPORT -- 1836.

           zones, in parallel fibres, and pendent in a stalactitical form

           from caverns.
           With respect to colour, glairine is of various shades of either
           white or red, the latter being found generally in the hottest

           springs.

             It gives out a mawkish smell, succeeded after p, liUle time by
           one of a more repulsive kind, arising from us decomposition.
           In its chemical properties it bears most resemblance to animal
           mucus, and disengages azote when acted upon bv niiric acid.

           M. Anglp.da afterwards shows that the thermal waters which de
           posit glairine, also contain a portion of the same in a state of
           chemical combination, the largest quantity, however, present
           not exceeding one third of a grain to the pint.
              As (he water cools a poriion o; this matter separates, and

           may then sometimes be perceived floating in it in minute semi-
                                flocks  of a muco.is   character.
Accounted  tranItspiasretnhtis  latter  circumstance,    which principally  leads  him  to
for.
           suppose, that the glairine exists formed in the interior of the earth,
           and that the mineral water is merely instrumental in bringing it

           to the surface.
           In order to explain how such a product could arise, Anglada
           appeals to an experiment of Dbbereiner's, who found, that
           when steam was passed through an iron tube containing heated
           charcop.1 a gelatinous matter frequently made ii,s appearance.
           He also notices the production of a fatty-looking substance by
           Berard, on passing through a red-hot tube a mixture of carOonic

           olefiant gas, and simple
           is with great diffidence
           Iacid,

             It
                                        hydrogen.      from                 the  views  of
                                         that dissent
           M. Anglada, who has undoubtedly paid more attention to this
           remarkable substance than any other individual that could be
           mentioned, and question the fret which he so confidently affirms,
           of the occurrence of specimens of gL~.ii hie in the Pyrenean
           springs and elsewhere, to which it would be impossible to assign

           an organic origin f.

              * Vol. xiii. part i.
              t In further corroboration of my views I may quote the authority of the
           naturalist Turpin, who has also examined two specimens of the so-called
           Baregine, the one from Barejje, the other from Neris. An investigation of
           them under the microscope proved, that chemists had been confounding under
           the same name, several very different organic produces and that the so-
           called Baregine from Neris had no resemblance in its origin or constitution to
           that from Barege.
              The former, which he obtained from Robiquet, was nothing else than tha
           Nosthoc or Conferva thermalis, already so often described. That from
           Barege, which he got from Longchamp, consisted of a gelatinous transparent
           and almost colourless substance, without any apparent mark of organiza-
          REPORT ON MINERAL AND THERMAL WATERS.                                              33

  INevertheless, the observations have myself made in some

of the very same localities as those visited by M. Anglada, the
substance of which is given in the Linnean Transactions*, lead
me to conclude, that the glairine of M. Anglada is frequently,
and therefore justify me in suspecting that it may be always,
generated at or near the surface, by the rapid growth of certain
lower     Itribes of organic beings.
                                      patches                            of it hanging from  the
   At     Greoulx remarked large
sides of a highly inclined rock, over which the water of that
thermal spring had descended.
   Now if it had been a chemical precipitate from the waters,
this could not have happened ; but supposing it an organic
matter, whose growth was favoured by the temperature or the
constitution of the spring, its presence therein is not more diffi
cult of explanation, than that of Algseon the face of a precipitous
cliff.

  Moreover, the specimens of glairine which I collected always
presented under the microscope, in some part or other, an or
        structure.
       is indeed true,
IgaIntic                              detected traces of what appeared to
                                that

be the same substance in the water of Barege fresh drawn ; but
it being admitted that, like many other organic matters, glairine
is slightly soluble in water, and more so in hot than in cold,

its presence there may be explained, if we only suppose that
its growth proceeds, not only in the open air, but likewise in
those fissures and cavities underground through which the

water has to pass.
Berthierf also, who has considered this subject in a memoir
on the Hot Springs of St. Nectaire, declares that he has never
found this organic matter in waters taken from the fountain-head,
and corked directly afterwards, but that it makes its appearance
after a very short exposure of the water to air and light. Though
gthlaisirirneem, aIrkbemlieavye,noatlwbaeysunaivriesersainllywtartueer,   the  larger deposits of
                                                                         that  has been exposed

to Itnheshatomrto,stphheerere.seems no insurmountable difficulty, in the way
of our attributing the existence of glairine everywhere to the
growth of organic bodies, such as should reconcile us to the

tion. It is a slimy mass formed out of a great number of parts, -which for the
most part arose from the decomposition of plants and animals, especially In

fusoria.
It is plain from this, how necessary it is that the chemist should ascertain the
                            of  cahneymsiucbasltaanncaelyswish.ic--h   may be suspected to be organic,
vocv. --homogeneous nature                                            PoggendorrTs Annalen, 1836.
                            to           t Annates des Mines, vol. vii. p. 215.
before he submits it
   · Vol. xiii. part i.               d
          1836.
           34 SIXTH REPORT -- 1836.

           adoption of an hypothesis, so strongly opposed to probability as
           that advocated by Anglada.
           Those who are sceptical as to the possibility of so very rapid
           and apparently so spontaneous a production of organic matter,
           as that which takes place in these thermal waters, should peruse

           a memoir in Schweigger's Journal*, and iilso one more lately
           published in PoggendorfF'sf, by the celebrated Ehrenberg, on
           the blood-red appearances observed at various periods, covering
           the surface of lakes and stagnant pools, spreading over various
           articles of food, or descending in rain from the heavens.
           The former of these papers proves the rapidity with which
           bodies of this kind are generated ; the latter establishes, that in
           almost every case in which the particulars have been carefully
           investigated, the phenomenon has resulted from the generation
           of some kind or other of organic matter.
           There is, indeed, an observation of GimbernatJ, which ought
           perhaps not to be   apnayssewdeigohvet r,toalitth.ougIhallIudaem  not myself dis
           posed to attribute                                                to his finding a
           substance similar at least to glairine, if not identical with it, in
           the condensed vapours proceeding from the fumaroles of Vesu
           vius. But when we recollect, that the apparatus in which this
           steam was collected had been allowed to remain for one or two

           days without being disturbed, during which time the water was

           freely exposed to atmospheric influences, under circumstances
           peculiarly favourable to the growth of Confervae, there seems no
           necessity for supposing the organic matter found in it to have
           Ibeen derived from the entrails of the volcano.

                 have myself collected, on several occasions, the vapours that
           I Iarose from the spiracles of this very same mountain, after the

           great eruption of 1834, as have stated in the memoir which
           Ipublished in the Philosophical Transactions for 1835, but in no

           instance could discover any organic matter.

Red femi-  I" the thermal springs of Vichy, and in some other localities,

ginous mat- where sulphur is not present, an organic substance has been
tcr. observed floating on the surface §.
              Longchamp,  in his account of that spring, states that         it  is in
           termixed with  carbonate of lime, together with which                 found
                                                                             I
           entangled within its meshes a portion of peroxide of iron ; and

              · For 1827 ; extracted from a work by Dr. Sette, entitled Mem. Storica
           Naiurale. Venezia, 1824.

              T Translated in Edinburgh New Philosophical Journal for 1830.
              X Bibliotheque Universelle, vol. xi.
              5 Vauquelin, Annates de Chimie, vol. xxviii.
          REPORT ON MINERAL AND THERMAL WATERS.                       "5

Iin the memoir already referred to*, I explained the mode in

which conceived these substances to find their way to the
surface.

  It seemed to me probable, that each portion of warm water,
from below, as it rose to the surface of the well or reservoir
which received the overflowings from the spring, would set at
liberty a little of the earthy and ferruginous matter it had held
in solution, in consequence of the disengagement of some of
the carbonic acid with which it had been surcharged whilst
under a greater pressure.
But this solid matter, being entangled in the Conferva? float
ing on the surface, would be prevented from becoming precipi
tated ; and would form, by degrees, an earthy and ochreous crust

upon the water.
   But Professor Ehrenberg, of Berlin, to whom we are in- Ehreniicrg's
debted for so many striking discoveries with respect to recent researches
and fossil infusoria, has thrown quite a new light upon this rcsPe(:UnB
subject, having ascertained, as he lately assured me, that this
red matter is in fact composed of the outer sheaths or coverings
of a multitude of little infusorial animalcules, which appear to
possess the singular property of secreting oxide of iron as well
as silica, and hence thrive only in chalybeate waters, which
afford them the material for the coat of mail which invests
their softer parts. This at least he finds to hold good with re
          the red ferruginous matter which collects in
spect to  waters in the neighbourhood of Halle, and     cIehrtaavine  cha
lybeate                                                               little
doubt that the same will apply to the similar incrustation found
in the water of Vichy, &c.
Thus, whilst one class of beings requires, as we have seen,
for its existence the presence of sulphur in such a state of com
bination, as is found to be absolutely destructive to other kinds of
life, another class secretes iron, a substance equally unsuited for
the nourishment of the great majority of animals ; as if it were
intended, that there should be no class of inorganic productions
which did not minister to the wants, and favour the production,
of a corresponding order of organized creatures.

  It seems worth inquiry, whether the red ochreous sediment Colouring

found by Davy in the baths of Lucca may not have arisen from lni,tler of
a similar cause, and be made up of an accumulation of infusoria ; piajned.
and likewise whether the colours which belong to certain speci
mens of rock-salt, which are sometimes of a deep-blue, but more
generally red, are not owing to certain vegetable or animal
matters.

                                        * Linnean TVans., vol. xvii.
                                                          D2
          SG SIXTH REPORT -- 1836.

          Ehrenberg*, in his journey into Siberia, observed a rose-red
          colour in the salt lake Elton, in the steppe of Astracan, which
          Idid not appear to belong to the water, but faded on drying ; and

            perceive in a recent journal, that Mr. Pajean, in his travels
          in Tuscany, remarked that the red substance, which is produced
          on the surface of water charged with marine salt in that country,
          is the result of an accumulation of an enormous quantity of
          small Crustacea, of one or two lines in length, having nearly the
          form of a craw-fish, which live very well in brine of 15 degrees,
          but die when the water is further concentrated.

            It is stated, that M. Darcet brought similar crustacea from
          certain lakes in Egypt which are charged with natron.
          With respect to the blue colour sometimes observed in rock-
          Isalt, it is possible that the same kind of explanation may apply

          to it. was once inclined to imagine, that it might be caused by
          a compound of iodine with some vegetable principle, analogous
                      o; rbuptroIduccoiunldg  with the former a similarly coloured
          to starch,                          detect no iodine in the specimen, and
          compound
          failed to reproduce the violet tinge, when the salt had been dis
          solved in water and crystallized a second time.
          Now Ehrenberg relates, that a lake in the South of Prussia
          in 1819, produced a particular colouring matter very similar to
          indigo, which appeared to be of a vegetable nature ; and Scores-

          byf mentions, having in 1820 observed, that the water of the
          Greenland sea was chequered with alternate green and blue
          stripes, and that these colours were produced by minute animal
          cules of the medusa kind.

Gases        The gases disengaged from mineral waters have been investi
evolved   gated by Bischoff, Anglada, Boussingault, Longchainp, and
from
springs.  others.

Carbonic     BoussingaultJ remarks, that the elastic vapours which rise so
acid.     abundantly from the thermal springs of the Andes, consist of
          carbonic acid and sulphuretted hydrogen, and the same observa
          tion applies to most of those in connexion with volcanic forma
          tions elsewhere.

             Of these two gases, the one most copiously evolved is carbonic

          acid, which, as is well known, produces those extensive deposits
          of calc-sinter, that are so common in caverns exposed to the
          drippings of water, and of arragonite§, which are of rather rarer

          · On Blood-red Water.                                 t Arctic Researches.

          X Edinburgh New l'hilomphiculjournal, vol. xv. 151.          on the presence of Ar-
                                              de Chimie, June,
              § See a paper in the  Annates                     1834,  also deposited from the
          ragonite in an Artesian    well at  Tours. I possess  some

          spring of St. Nectaire in Auvergne.
        REPORT ON MINERAL AND THERMAL WATERS.                                                                       87

occurrence in such situations. The particular circumstances
determining the production of the one rather than the other
form of calcareous spar, appear to be still unexplained, for
stalactitical arragonite does not appear to contain any other
essential ingredient than carbonate of lime, and is now supposed
to arise from a difference of form in the integrant molecule of
that base*.

Another point requiring elucidation, relates to the absence of
carbonate of magnesia from stalactites arising from dolomitic
rocks.
Is tha^ the acidulated water first dissolves the carbonate
of lime, beforeI it, attacks the atomic compound of lime and
                     it
                         it
magnesia, or that the attraction of carbonic acid for the former
exceeds that which exerts for the latter earth
With respect to the extrication of carbonic acid from the itsquan-                            ?
               have myself pointed outf the enormous quantity "'J-
earth,                                                                                                   by

evolved in the vicinity of Naples, as at Torre del Annunziata, in
which and in other places frequently destroys vegetation, and
likewise near the axis of the Apennine chain, midway betwixtit

the active volcano of Vesuvius, and the extinct one of Mount
Vultur, at the Lago d' AnsantoJ.
    Bischof has described its extrication, from the various mine
ral waters connected with the volcanic mountains of the Rhenishis §

provinces, and likewise from dry fissures in the ground, where
its escape recognised by the stunted vegetation, and
a number of small animals suffocated round the spot.                                                         finding

Lecoq|| and others have mentioned the remarkable erosion
produced in the rocks contiguous to the mines of Pont Gibaud
in Auvergne, owing to the presence of this gas in the water
which oozes through the rocks encircling them.
    Brandes and Kruger, in their account of the mineral waters
of Pyrmont^f, have shown, that the extrication of carbonic acid

by no means limited to the spot from whence the chalybeate
i[ || § t t is

                                      I'
                                                                      it

                                                                                           a
   * Mr. Crosse, amongst the experiments which he detailed at the Bristol
Meeting of the British Association, stated, his having found that calcareous
spar was formed on limestone, and arragonite on slate, by the drippings
from the same cavern, and that he was even able by the slow action of elec
tricity, to produce each of these minerals from the same water, charged with
carbonate of lime, according as he placed  on piece of limestone, or of
slate.

Edinburgh New PhiloaophicalJournal, 1835.
Memoir on the Lake Amsanctus, and on Mount Vultur in Apulia, printed
by the Ashmolean Society of Oxford, 1836.
Vulkaniiche Mineralquellen, p. 251.
Annates Scient\fiques de Auvergne, and Ferussac's Bulletin, vol. xvi.
       P. 155, et seq. See also Brandes' work                                                                       of
Meinburg. Lemgo, 1832.                                                                      on the Mineral  Waters
                                                                                                                      "
           38 SIXTH REPORT -- 1836.

           springs of that watering-place arise, but is observed for some
           distance round, wherever fissures, natural or artificial, exist.

              Thus, a cavity having been made by some workmen for quarry
           ing stone, it was found, that the air within became charged with
           from 36 to 48 per cent, of carbonic acid, which rose in the

Its vari-  cavern to different heights at different times.
ations.       These writers report, that in winter the gas never attained so

           jUgn a p0int as at other seasons ; that in the morning, some
           hours after daybreak, and in the evening, soon after sunset, the
           mephitic air had reached its maximum, whilst at midday, when
           the sun shone into the cave, it was very low ; that the evolution
           of gas was greatest before the breaking out of a storm, but dimi
           nished after it had begun ; that the variations of barometric
           pressure seemed to exert no influence upon the phenomenon,
           except so far as they were connected with the occurrence of a
           storm ; that it was greater during hot weather than cold ; in
           calm than in windy ; in a moist state of the atmosphere than in

           a dry one. A similar remark has been made with respect to the

           disengagement of carbonic acid in Auvergne *, as that recorded
           as to Pyrmont, the quantity given out being so large during
           storms, and during the prevalence of a westerly wind, as to
           render some of the mines unworkable.

             Kastner t also alludes to the variation as to quantity, both in
           the water and the carbonic acid, observed atKissingen in Bavaria,
           and attributes it in both cases to a difference iu atmospheric

           pressure, the water being forced out by the gas, and the escape
           of the latter checked, in proportion to the weight of the atmo

           sphere above.
              According to Mayen, the springs of Bochlet have a regular

           ebb and flow, both as to the amount of water and of gas. The
           greatest difference in quantity corresponded with the interval
           between the first and last of the moon's quarters. AtFachin-
           genj the quantity of gas evolved is said to be greatest just
           before sunrise, and least about two or three o'clock after mid

                day.
Its amount. The amount of carbonic acid given off has in a few instances

           only been determined §.
              Trommsdorff found the quantity evolved from a fissure at

           Kaiser Franzeubad, near Egra, to amount to 5760 Vienna cubic

           · Fournet Annalea Scicntifiques del'Auveryne, vol. ii. p. 241; or Ferussac's
           Bulletin, for 1829.
           f Archiv, vol. xvi.
                                   J Kastner, Archiv, vol. i.
           § See G. Bidchoff iu Edinbunjh New Philosophical Journal, 1835, from
           Poggendorff's Anualen.
         REPORT ON MINERAL AND THERMAL WATERS.                                                                                39

feet in 24 hours, whereas the water in the same time emitted

was calculated at 259 cubic feet; and Bischoff notices one
spring which gave out in the same time 4237 c- the water
                 f.

                                                                                                                f->
being 1157 c. and containing 1909 cubic inches of thia
gas, and another which evolved of gas 3063, and of water
3645 cubic feet, which contained of gas 871.
    Such statements arc worth recording, as enabling our suc
cessors to ascertain whether there be any secular variation in
the quantity of gas evolved; and
                                         therefore to be regretted,
it

               a
                                         is

                                                   it
                                                             is

                                                                                      a

                                                                                                                           ,
that Bischoff has not mentioned the names of the springs which
he had examined with reference to this point.
The uninterrupted manner in which the carbonic acid rises
up through the spring explained by Bischoff, by supposing
held in chemical solution by the water at great depth, and
therefore under an enormous pressure.
Such supposition would enable us to understand the trifling
irregularities observed in the flow of gas, without imagining
that the state of the atmosphere above has any direct influence
upon the energy of the volcanic operations below, since the
barometric pressure, the relations to moisture, &c. of the air

surrounding the spring, might favour at one time more than at
another the escape of gas from the spring, or its diffusion
through space. Some have supposed*, that the water of the
spring forced upwards by the elasticity of the confined gas,
but Bischoff justly remarks, that the flow of the former tooa ; is
equable for any such thing to happen.                                                                                         ia
                                                                                                                                   is
  An explanation of thia kind can only be resorted to in such
cases as those of the Sprudel at Carlsbad, and at the Geysers
in Iceland, where the spring appears, as were, by fits and
starts.          a

                               f. it
Yet in these cases the phsenomenon may, perhaps, be more
readily accounted for by the extrication of steam in cavities
connected with the fissure through which the spring rises, as
was first suggested by Sir G. Mackenzie                  Dutrochet, how
ever, has described an intermitting spring in the Jura, which he
ascribes with more reason to periodical evolution of carbonic
acid gas though, even here an accumulation of gas taking
place in cavity connected with the spring, may have been
competent to produce the phenomenon.

   That Nitrogen escapes occasionally from thermal springs, Nitrogen.
by no means a new discovery, for was remarked by Priestley
                                         it
* Berthicr, Annates de Chime, vol. xix.               t  Travels in Iceland.
            40 SIXTH RBPORT -- 1836.

            at Bath, and by Pearson at Buxton, before the commencement
            of the present century.
In thermal     More recently  it lias been observed                aanldmoIsthaavell
springs.    the sulphureous   thermal waters of the  issuing from
                                                     Pyrenees*;
            shown, that not only has it in many instances been mistaken
            for carbonic acid, but also that it is commonly evolved where-

            ever thermal waters existf .                is carbonic acid,          I find
               Even when the prevailing gas emitted
            that a small quantity of residuary air is present, which consists
            in general of oxygen and nitrogen, but with a much smaller
            proportion of the former than that present in the atmosphere.
            The volcanic district of Ischia affords the only example that
            has occurred to me, of a number of thermal springs lying to
            gether, not one of which evolves nitrogenf .

               In this case, however, we may remark, that no kind of air
            whatever is emitted from the waters, which therefore would

            seem to derive their heat, not from any volcanic processes going
            on at present, but from their contiguity to a mass of rock heated

            Iby antecedent eruptions.

               In corroboration of this view may state, that several springs
            on the skirts of Vesuvius, where volcanic operations are actually
            proceeding, give out nitrogen, though in much smaller quantity
            than they do carbonic acid ; as for example, the thermal water
            of Torre del Annunziata, and the cold spring of Castellamare.
            From the Thermals connected with extinct volcanos, azote is
            emitted, though for the most part in inferior quantity, than it is
            from springs associated with primary, or with intrusive rocks of

            older formation.

Its amount. The quantity of this gas returned to the atmosphere through

         Ithe medium of thermal waters is evidently considerable.
            measured that emitted from the King's Bath, in the city of
            Bath§, nearly every day for a month during the autumn of 1833,
            and found that its average quantity was 267 cubic inches per
            minute, or 222 cubic feet in the 24 hours.
               The gas consisted of 97 per cent, of nitrogen, and of 3 per
            cent, of oxygen, with a variable quantity of carbonic acid.
            Since this period, the sinking of a well in a remote quarter of
            the town through the lias to the depth of 250 feet, from which
            water rose of a temperature but little inferior to that of the

            t· Anglada, Memoircs.

              On Hot Springs and their connexion with Volcanos, Edinburgh New
            Philosophical Journal for 1832.

               X Daubeny, on a Spring at Torre del Annunziata near Naples.         from
               § See my Paper on the quantity and quality of the Gases disengaged
            the Thermal Springs at Bath, Philosophical Transactions, 1834.
                REPORT ON MINERAL AND THERMAL WATERS.                                  41

Public Bath*, was followed, not only by a diminution in the
supply of water at the latter, but also in the amount of gas
emitted, which, according to the accurate observations of Mr.
George Spry, of Bath, made in the beginning of August in this
yearf, appears not to average at present more than 170 cubic
inches per minute, whilst the quantity of water discharged at
the original spring, %vas reduced from 120 gallons to 75, in the
same interval of time.

   Thus the relation between the decrease of gas and of water
kept pace very nearly one with another ; for,

                          as 150 : 222 :: 75 : 111.

The slight excess of gas may have arisen from the more scru
pulous manner, in which Mr. Spry prevented its escape from
all the apertures in the bath, excepting those from which he
I
                   than had been previously done by myself.
              it,
collected

   have since estimated the amount of gas emitted from the
thermal spring of Buxton at about 50 cubic inches per minute,
and find that M. Longchamp determined the quantity at one of
the springs, Cauterets in the Pyrenees, as being about 7'1 cubic
inches, whilst he calculates that of the water given out by the
same during an equal space of time at 1584, or nearly 226 times
the amount.

The above are nearly all the observations we at present
possess; with respect to the quantity of nitrogen emitted from
thermal springs, though would be desirable to obtain in every
instance an exact register of this, as well as of the quantity andit
temperature of the water itself, as affording us the data for dej
termining at some future time, whether any secular variationit it
taking place in the quality of each spring in these several re                         I is
                                              is
spects.

   In the table, therefore, at the close of the present Report,
have registered in two separate columns all the observations
could collect, on the quantity of gas and water emitted within
I

            is
theItspacweoortfhtwreemntayr-kfoinugr ,         hours  by  the springs named.     gas  is    In cold
                                                 that  an  evolution of nitrogen

not altogether peculiar to thermal waters.                                                   springs.

   detected issuing pretty abundantly from spring near
I                                                          a

Clonmel, which possessed the common temperature of those in
the neighbourhood another emitting the same has been de-

* M. Arago, in his Annuaire for 1836, mentions, that the same falling off
of the hot spring of Aix, in Provence, took place in consequence of the sink
ing of a contiguous well, but                     remarkable that in this case the water of
the latter was cold.
 Vir. in 1836.
f
                                            SIXTH REPORT -- 1836.

           scribed, as occurring            InehaarveInvbeerekneiitnhfoinrgmeind  Scotland, by the Rev.
                                                                                  of a third in Shrop
           W. Robertson*, and
           shire by Mr. Murchison.
           In one or two cases oxygen is said to predominate in the air
Oxygen.

           evolved, as Robiquet says is the case at Vichy j but as he adds,
           Ithat it is only found, after the water has been standing in the

           reservoir long enough to be covered by a vegetable slime,
           conceive this gas to have arisen from the decomposition of car
           bonic acid within the tissue of the plant, under the influence of
           solar light.
Curburetted Carburetted hydrogen has in many instances been observed
hydrogen. to issue from springs, as well as from clefts in the earth, as at

              the Pietra Mala on the Apennines, and at St. Barthelemi near
           Grenoble, where the gas, when once kindled either by accident
           or design, maintains a continued flame, until pains are taken to

           extinguish it.

             It has also been observed in many parts of the world to issue

           copiously from salt springs, as at Medonia in the State of New
           York, in China, &c. ; and a curious proof that the salt, with
           which these springs are impregnated, had been deposited under
           pressure, is afforded by the fact, that at Wielichza in Gallicia its
           cavities contain carburetted hydrogen in a condensed state, so
           that on immersing a lump of this salt in water, a series of small
           detonations is heard during its solution, in consequence of the
                       expansion of the gas on escaping                 from its
           sudItdenis  an interesting circumstance, to                  find this  prison!
                                                                                   phenomenon
           continuing in the very spots, in which it was observed during
                 periods of Grecian history.
           theI  have quoted in another placef                ,  an  instance     of its occurrence

           among the Chimariot mountains of Albania, where ancient
           writers speak of a nympheum as existing, by which they meant
           to express, that a stream of inflammable gas had there been

           observed.

Sulphu        The same permanency seems also in some cases to be the
retted hy  attribute of sulphureous waters ; for the hot springs of Bithy-
           nia, which modern travellers describe as impregnated with
drogen.
           Jsulphuretted hydrogen, appear from the accounts of Greek

           writers to have been similarly constituted nearly two thousand
           years ago.
           These, however, which are thermal sulphureous springs, pro-

           f* Edinburgh New Philosophical Journal, 1829.
              Memoir   on the  "BaIltt^h i  Waters    above   quoted.   extracted from  the  Greek
           X See the   Poem                         Tlviiois
                                             rx m              &i^a,,"

           Anthology in my Description of Volcanos, 8vo, 1826.
REPORT ON MINERAL AND THERMAL WATEES.                               43

bably derive their origin from a totally different cause, to that
which impregnates cold ones with this same principle.

   The latter in some instances undergo, within a very short
period, a material alteration in point of strength.

   Thus a sulphureous spring at Willoughby, in Warwickshire*,
yielded me in the autumn of 1828, 16*9 cubic inches of sul

Iphuretted hydrogen to the gallon.

   In the April following, could detect only 12*65 cubic inches,

Iand in the autumn of 1834 only 5*2.

   Whilst on this subject, may mention, that Professor An-
glada of Montpellierf, has satisfied himself by a detailed exami
nation of the sulphureous springs of the Pyrenees, that no one
of them contains sulphuretted hydrogen in a free state, but that
in every instance this principle is united to an alkaline base,
with which it constitutes an hydrosulphuret.

   Finding this to be the case so generally, he has proposed a
classification of sulphureous springs founded on this principle,
arranging them, according as they contain the above gas in a
free state, or combined with one, or two atoms of a base.

M.ByAnagplapdlyainghadtheemspamloyeedr,eagIenwt as(thleedartsoencioounscludaeci,d,)thawt hitchhe

springs of Aix la Chapelle and Borset were similarly consti

tuted, and indeed such would necessarily be the case, where-
ever the soda in the water was not impregnated with carbonic
acid, nor could there well exist in it any free sulphuretted hydro
gen, until the whole of the alkali was thus saturated.

   Hence -in affirming that the gas of the Pyrenean springs
always occurs in this state of combination, M. Anglada has
(apparently unconsciously) confirmed the statement, which he
questions, as to the existence of caustic soda in the water. .

   We have already considered whether under ordinary circum- Influence of
stances mineral springs are subject to vicissitudes, either as to carl ill-
temperature, as to the quantity and quality of their fixed and upon
                                      or as to the amount of water
gasIetouwsilcl onbsetitpureonptse,r,    however, before proceeding  discharged,                   springs.
                                                                      further, to

notice what has been observed, with respect to the influence
exerted upon them in any of the above respects by earthquakes,
which are stated in some cases to have affected particular
springs in an extraordinary manner.
During an earthquake in 1768 at Vienna, the spring of Baden
became more copious than before, and the evolution of sulphu

retted hydrogen more abundant £.

* Philosophical Magazine, Jan. 1835.  f Memoires pour tervir, 8fc.

I Krutncr's Archiv, vol. .
             44 SIXTH REPORT -- 1836.

                An earthquake in 1692 is said to have affected the spring of
             Spa in a similar manner j and one that happened in the sur
             rounding district communicated to the spring of Bagneres de
             Luchon an increase of temperature.

                But these are effects produced by earthquakes in the vicinity
             of the springs ; more remarkable is the influence exerted upon
             them by similar subterranean movements taking place in distant

             quarters.
                Thus during the great earthquake of Lisbon, the hot spring

             of Toeplitz in Bohemia, betwixt the hours of eleven and twelve
             in the day, is recorded to have become turbid, and then to have
             gushed out so copiously as to overflow the well. The water
             assumed a red tinge, and was suspected to have become hotter.

             At the same time the hot spring of Pesth in Hungary is said to

             have shown a similar increase of temperature.
                This sympathy with the subterranean movements of a distant

             quarter will appear less extraordinary, when we recollect, that the
             same earthquake is said to have been felt by the workmen in the
             mines of Derbyshire.

                In other cases, the connexion of the spring with the subterra

             nean movement has been evinced, perhaps as decisively, by the
             opposite effect occurring.

                 Thus in 1660, in consequence of an earthquake, the thermal
             waters of Bagneres de Bigorre were for a short time suspended ;
             during one that occurred at Naples, the Sprudel at Carlsbad is
             stated to have remained tranquil for six hours ; and in the great
             earthquake of Lisbon, that of Aix in Savoy ceased to flow.

                 Lastly, in a few instances, the existence of a thermal spring

             has seemed to act as a safety valve, and to secure the immediate
             locality from those natural convulsions which affected the neigh
             bourhood. Thus an earthquake which shook the whole district
             around was not felt at Carlsbad itself, and the same remark has
             been made at Wiesbaden.

Springs ex-  I have now stated the more recent additions that have been
Ierting a pe- made to our knowledge as to the contents of mineral springs ;

cuiiaraction Dut tne undertaking would be incomplete, if passed over with-
             out comment those, which, though not known to contain any
animai

oeconomy. peculiar chemical ingredient, seem nevertheless to produce cer
             tain decided effects upon the animal oeconomy.

                For to refuse credence to the reports given by medical men
             with respect to the salutary or injurious effects of a particular
             water, merely because the chemist can discover in it no active
             principle, would seem a proceeding not less unphilosophical,
             than that of which our predecessors were guilty, in treating as
             fabulous the accounts given of stones that had fallen from the
            REPORT ON MINERAL AND THERMAL WATERS.            45

sky, because they did not understand how such ponderous masses
could have continued suspended in it. And on the other hand,
granting that a spring possesses peculiar virtues, we must sup
pose that it differs, either in its mechanical, or chemical proper
ties, from the rest.

   Accordingly those springs, which are believed on good autho
rity to possess medicinal virtues, ought properly to find a place,
not merely in a professional treatise on the subject, but also in
one that affects to consider it scientifically.

   Most countries afford examples of springs, that appear almost
chemically pure, to which medicinal qualities have been accord
ed : thus Gastein in the Saltzburg, and Loueche in the Swiss
Alps, amongst thermal waters ; and Malvern in England,
amongst cold ones*, are very sparingly charged with mineral
matter, and what they contain consists of ingredients appa
rently not calculated to exert any action upon the animal

system.

   How far the reputation enjoyed by these springs may be
owing to other causes, such as the purity of the air, the change
of diet, mode of living, &c, it is for the enlightened physician
to inform us, and an interesting field of physiological inquiry
seems to be open to him, in examining the effects exerted upon
the system by that long-continued immersion in warm water, to
which it is the practice of invalids in several of these watering

plaIctesis  to resortf-   that a very large  proportion  of  those cele-            Causes  of
             remarkable,

brated warm springs lie at a considerable elevation. Thus their"Re"cy
Gastein is 3100 feet above the sea, L^oueche 4400, and Pfeffers cons iclt?red
2128 feet; now one may easily imagine, that the exhalation
from the surface of the body, and the activity of the functions
thereon dependent, may be much promoted by the practice of
the invalid, of remaining alternately immersed, in water of so
high a temperature, and in so rarified an atmosphere. If, how
ever, after taking this and other circumstances into account,
the testimony, in favour of some specific action derived from the
spring itself upon the animal oeconomy, should seem unexcep-

   · Dr. Hastings, in his Illustrations of the Natural History of Worcestershire,
1834, states, that its efficacy is found to be very considerable in arthritic, cal
culous, dyspeptic, and scrofulous cases.

  f Dr. Gairdner doubts the statement I bad on a former occasion made on

this point ; but I can assure him, from personal observation at Loueche, and
by quite sufficient testimony as to Gastein, that in both these baths it is the

practice to remain immersed, for periods of time, varying from four to ten
hours, during the process of cure. At Buda too, and at Glasshutte in Hun
gary, the peasants continue in the public baths for a length of time, that would
quite astonish an English physician.
            46 SIXTH REPORT 1836.

            tionable, the chemist ought to consent to regard this action as
            indicative, of undiscovered principles, or modes of combination.
In the pre- Thus certain salt springs in Piedmont had acquired from time
sence of io- immemorial a reputation in the cure of goitre, which the nature
            °^ their then known mineral impregnation would not explain.
bromine.       Recent investigations have, however, shown, that these springs

            contain a small quantity of iodine, the very principle now found
            most efficacious in this and other glandular disorders.
            The superior efficacy attributed to the waters of Cheltenham
            and Leamington over mere artificial solutions of sulphate of
            soda, &c. of the same strength, was difficult of explanation, until
            chemical analysis had shown that, in addition to the more
            common ingredients, these springs contain portions of two
            active principles, iodine and bromine, wanting in the imitation
            of them.

               In like manner chemists, in the pride of half knowledge, may
            often have smiled at the faith reposed in the water, of Ashby-
            de-la-Zouch in Leicestershire, and of Kreutynach, in the Palati
            nate, both which, until lately, appeared to be little more than
            mere saturated solutions of common salt.
            But the advance of science has shown, that these two springs
            are precisely the ones most fully impregnated of any perhaps
            known with salts of bromine, and therefore most highly charged
            with the properties of that active principle.
In the ab-  ft has long been a vulgar notion, that goitre arose from

scnce o air. (jrinkjng 8now water, and this opinion, which was derided by
            men of science, seems to be in some measure substantiated by
            the recent researches of Boussingault in the Andes*.
            That naturalist commences by showing, that the goitre of the
            above elevated region can arise, neither from the humidity of the
            climate, as had been supposed by some, nor from the nature of
            the earthy ingredients of the springs, as had been imagined by

            others.
            He then observes, that persons who habitually employ as their
            beverage water devoid of its due proportion of air (whether that
            deficiency be owing, to the rarefaction of the atmosphere on the
            high table land on which it lies, or to the circumstance of its
            being immediately obtained from the melted snow of the moun
            tains) are subject to this disease, whilst persons who take care
                     a
                                 a

                                                         it,
                                                                               it
            to aerate their water before drinking     as may be done by

            those residing at moderate elevation, by merely exposing to
            the atmosphere for 30 or 40 hours previous, escape the deformity.
               For the same reason, river, which at a high level appears to

                     * Annates dc CHmit, 1833.
REPORT ON MINERAL AND THERMAL WATERS.                             47

cause goitre, has no such tendency at a lower one, so soon, that
is, as its waters have become duly aerated in the progress of
their descent.

   In like manner, water which rises from calcareous rocks, or
which has become stagnant in lakes, has a tendency to produce

goitre, not by reason of its solid contents, but owing to the
absence of the usual quantity of air.

   Boussiugault also relates the extraordinary fact, that those
provinces, which are provided with salt containing iodine, are not
affected with goitre, whilst in others, where the salt is destitute
of that principle, the disease is endemic.

   There has likewise been an attempt lately made by a German intiieireler-
physician* to mark a difference in the electrical condition of ,.rical «"><li-
one of those springs, which, though almost chemically pure, tlon'
seemed nevertheless to possess active properties.

   He states, that the water of Gastein conducts electricity better
than common water %vould do. Such a statement, however,
cannot receive any credence, until all the details of the method,
by which a result so paradoxical was arrived at, have been sub
mitted to the judgement of scientific men.

    Kastner had previously endeavoured to establish the same in
the case of the waters of Wiesbaden, but the fallacy of his ex
periments is now generally admitted.

    Equally fanciful appear the opinions of those, who attribute In their
to natural thermal springs a greater capacity for heat than be- capacity for
longs to artificially prepared waters of equal temperature, and eat-
who maintain that they cool more slowly in consequence.

   M. Longchamp, in France, by experiments on the waters of

Bourbon ; Professor Gmelin, of Heidelberg, by similar ones on
those of Baden-baden; Reuss, Neumann, and Steinmann by sonic
on the springs of Carlsbad; andSchweigger andFicinus by others
on those of Toeplitz, have exposed the fallacy of this notion ; and
have shown, that in reality no difference exists in this respect
between the one and the otherf .

   Let us next proceed to consider the improvements, that have Anaiysii of
been lately introduced into our methods of analysing the solid mmeml
and gaseous constituents of mineral waters.

   Most chemists are by this time familiar with the simplification General

Jupon the plan of proceeding, which we owe to Dr. Murray of principles-

Edinburgh, in consequence of his having pointed out, that as the
salts existing in a spring need not be the same with those we ob
tain on evaporation, and as salts viewed as incompatible may

· Dr. Pettenhofer.  t Consult Bischoff, Vulk. Mineralq., p. 364.

X Transactions of the Royal Society of Edinburgh.
             48 SIXTH REPORT -- 1836.

             coexist in a state of weak solution, the analysis of a mineral
             water consists in nothing more than in determining the nature
             and amount of the several acids and bases which it contains.
             But Berzelius has further contended*, that everything beyond

             this, which the chemical analysis professes to give, is a matter of
             hypothesis, and that in concluding the salts, actually present in

             the water, to be necessarily the most soluble compounds, that
             could be formed out of the .acids and bases present, Murray went
             further than he was justified, either by experiment or analogy, in
             doing.

                The Swedish chemist, on the contrary, contends, and appa

             rently with much justice, that, consistently with the views of

             Berthollet on the influence of the mass, we ought to suppose as

             many salts to exist in a mineral water, as can be formed out of

             the constituents present, whilst the proportion, in which these
             salts exist, is a point which we cannot obtain data for calculating,

             until we are able to estimate numerically, the relative force of

             affinity subsisting between the ingredients.
                According, therefore, to the received views on this subject,

             the chemist ought in strictness barely to set down, as the results of

             Ifhis analysis, the respective weights of the acids and bases present.

                     he does more than this, and professes to combine these
             principles into salts, it should be understood, that he acts merely
             in conformity with existing usage, and in order to convey to the
             public the impression, that those waters, in which he has found
             such and such acids and bases, act upon the system in a manner
             similar to that, which the salts he states to exist in them are

             considered calculated to do.

Particular      With respect  toofthcehepmairctaiclulaanr ailmyspisro, veImmenatys    introduced   into
improve      this department                                                        particularize   the

ments.       following :

To distin    A solution of sulphate of lime has been proposed as a test for
             Ifbarytes, or strontites, in a mineral water.
guish ba-
rytes or            either of these bases exists therein, a precipitate is formed,
strontites   whereas, if lime alone is present, no effect takes place on the
             addition of this reagent.
from lime ;

barytes      An easy method of separating barytes from strontites has been
from stron invented by Liebigf, who treats the mixed solution with iodate
tites. of soda, this forming, an insoluble precipitate with the baryt,
             but a soluble compound with the strontian.
             Another method^ has lately been proposed for the same ob
             ject, namely, that of adding neutral chroniate of potass to the

             · In his Analysis of the Carlsbad water. Annates de Chimie, vol. xxviii.

             jt Already noticed in Mr. Johnson's Report,
                Philosophical Magazine, March 1836.
          REPORT ON MINERAL AND THERMAL WATERS.                             49

mixture of strontian and baryt, whereby a soluble salt is formed
with the former, and an insoluble one with the latter.

The precipitated ehromate of barytes must be heated to red
ness before it is weighed.
The common method of detecting lithia in mineral waters is Lithia.
to precipitate it by phosphoric acid, a little phosphate of soda
being first added to the solution, in order to make sure of the
whole of the phosphate of lithia being thrown down.
   Kastner* proposes as an improvement, that the solution
should be neutralized by sulphuric acid, and then reduced to

dryness.
Alcohol will take up the sulphate of lithia without affecting
the other sulphates, and the solution on being evaporated, and
then redissolved in as small a quantity of water as possible, may
have its lithia thrown down, in combination with phosphoric acid,
by phosphate of soda.
DrA. nWoellleagsatnotn.metIhtocdonosfistdeedtecintinagddninitgrictoatchied
                                                                            was proposed by     Nitric Acid.
                                                                            liquid a few drops
of muriatic acid, and a little gold leaf, which latter will be dis
solved if nitric acid be present f-
JDbbereiner has lately suggested another method, which
enables us to determine also the amount of nitric acid, even

when in small quantities.
He mixes the suspected liquid with an equal quantity of con
centrated sulphuric acid, and introduces the mixture into a

graduated tube, placed over quicksilver. A slip of copper is
then added, and the mixture warmed. Sulphate of copper is
thus formed, and an amount of azote collected equivalent to that
of the nitric acid present.

   A more convenient plan of conducting the experiment would
seem to be, that of heating the suspected liquid in a glass tube,
containing a little metallic copper and sulphuric acid, and re

Iceiving the gas over mercury.

      have already noticed the probability that ammonia has often Ammonia.
been overlooked in our analyses of mineral springs. To detect
it, sulphuric acid should first be added to the water, which may
then be concentrated, and evaporated in a water-bath, after
which the addition of quicklime will separate the ammonia, and
render it sensible both by its odour and alkaline reaction.
   The received method of estimating the amount of bromine, Bromine.

  t· Archiv, vol. xvi.
       Becquerel has proposed an electro-chemical method of effecting the
same object founded on the same principle. Traiti de V Electricitt, vol. iii.
p. 325.

vo\l.Bevrz.el1iu8s3, 6J.ahreabericht,  1832,  p.  1C2.
                                                      e
50 SIXTH REPORT -- 1836.

when present in a water, together with chlorine, is stated in my
work on the Atomic Theory*.

   It is nothing more than an application of the method sug
gested by M. Gay-Lussac for calculating the proportions of soda
and potass, to the case of bromine and chlorine, and labours in
common with it under the objection, that the inference is de
duced, not from a single experiment, but from a comparison
of at least two ; and that a very trifling inaccuracy in either,
being multiplied in the calculation founded on them, vitiates
the whole result.
  It would be well, therefore, if a direct method
                                                   oI fsdetetdeorwmninoinnge
the same could be hit upon ; and for this reason
suggested by Lowig, which has already found a place in Professor
Johnston's Report on Chemistry, published in the first volume of
our Reports.
The dried mixture of chloride and bromide is to be heated in

a stream of chlorine, so long as any bromine appears to be dis
engaged. The chlorine and bromine which pass over are re
ceived into a solution of caustic potass, by which chloride of
potassium and chlorate of potass, together with bromate of potass,

are produced.
Having neutralized the potass with nitric acid, nitrate of silver
is added to precipitate the chlorine and the bromic acid.
   The precipitate, after being washed, is introduced moist into

a bottle, and bary tic water added. A soluble bromate of barytes
is thus formed, whilst the chloride remains untouched. The

solution being poured off, the excess of barytes is separated by
carbonic acid, and the bromate of barytes is thus left in a state

of purity.               /

Dr. Osannf has lately suggested another mode of separating
tlfese two principles.

  It depends on the greater volatility of chlorine than bromine,
and on the circumstance, that chloride of silver becomes of a vio

let colour after exposure to light, whilst bromide of silver is
rendered greyish black.
He therefore expels the chlorine and bromine by means of
sulphuric acid, slowly distils over the two, and makes them pass
into a solution of nitrate of silver. The precipitate is from time

to time tested by exposure to light, and when found to assume
the appearance belonging to bromide of silver, that which comes

over is set apart, and reckoned as such.

   In order to obviate the objection, arising from the circum
stance, that there is an intermediate period when the chlorine

   * Introduction to the Atomic Theory, p. 89. The same method was followed

tby Dr. Ure in his analysis of the Ashby water; Phil. Transactions, 1S34.
        Poggendorff's Annalen, 1831.
          REPORT ON MINERAL AND THERMAL WATERS.                            51

and bromine come over together, Osann proposes to stop the
distillation, exactly at the point at which the precipitate is an
equal mixture of the two acids. The deficiency of bromine in
Itthe solution is thus compensated for by the chlorine obtained.

     is evident, however, that a very practised eye would be re
quired, in order to obtain correct quantitative results by such
a method as the above.
The same author proposes to separate iodine from chlorine,
by causing the mixture to pass over in a state of vapour into a
solution of potass, and then precipitating it with arsenious acid
or arseniate of ammonia.

The iodine unites with the arsenic, which latter is precipi
tated by sulphuretted hydrogen. This being got rid of by
oxide of                                                               it  with silver.
   Henry  lead,  t*hehaiosdipnreopios soebdtaainendewbymuetnhiotidng  of   distinguishing  Oxides of
           Rose

between the protoxide and peroxide of iron.                                                iron-

When muriatic acid is added to a mixture containing both
these oxides, the protoxide is converted into a protochloride, the
peroxide into a perchloride.
Now metallic silver robs the latter of its half-atom of chlorine,

converting it into the protochloride, and hence the increase of
weight in the silver added, enables us to calculate the amount of
peroxide of iron originally present.
   Another   method for the same
                                      object has been proposed              by
Fuchsf.     It consists in digesting  the solution of protoxide            and

peroxide in an acid, with carbonate of lime or of magnesia, by
either of which the peroxide is precipitated, whilst the protoxide

remains untouched.
This peroxide is obtained in a state of mixture with the earth
and acid employed, and must be separated from both by the

ordinary means.
The only difficulty consists, in preventing the weight of the
precipitate from being increased during filtration, in consequence
of the conversion of some of the protoxide into peroxide.
   In order to prevent this as much as possible, the precipitate
should be washed repeatedly with warm water, before the super
natant liquor is thrown upon the filter.
   For the detection of organic matter in mineral waters, Dr. Organic
Davy has suggested the employment of a solution of nitrate of mMer-
silver:}:. The blackening, which usually takes place in this fluid
upon exposure to light, is attributable to the presence of organic

matter ; for if care be taken to purify the water, light produces

no change.

            · Berzelius, Jahresbericht, 1832, p. 164.
            t Jahresbericht, 1832, p. 104.

            J Edinburgh New Phil. Journal, 1828, p. 129.
                                        E2
             52 SIXTH RhPORT-- 183fi.

                When, however, this test is employed, we must first assure
             ourselves that no chlorides exist in the solution ; for chloride of
             silver, which would be formed, is blackened by the sun's rays,
             even though no organic matter be present.
     Gases.     For determining the quality and amount of the gases chemi

             cally combined with a mineral water, Mr. Walcher* suggested
             a modification in the common apparatus, with a view of obviat
             ing the error likely to arise from a portion of the water being
             driven over by the ebullition.
             In his experiments, the glass globe containing the water to
             be boiled was connected, air-tight, to a little phial, from which
             proceeded a sigmoid tube, passing under mercury, or into the

             vessel containing the substance intended to absorb the gas.
                Let us suppose, for instance, that our object is to ascertain

             the amount of nitrogen and oxygen which a water contains. In
             that case we fill the phial with carbonic acid, and the graduated
             tube with solution of potass. The air expelled by ebullition,
             together with a portion of the water itself, entering the phial,
             expels the air, which passing into the tube, is robbed of its car

             bonic acid by the potass.

                After the experiment is over, the air remaining in the phial
             may easily be transferred into the jar, and the water which
             came over may be passed back again into the glass globe, in
             order that it may be treated like the rest.

                In this manner, perhaps, a somewhat greater degree of ac
             curacy may be attained, than where a glass globe with a sigmoid,
             tubBeutaloIneconisceeimveplothyaetd.the utility of Mr. Walcker's plan will be
             chiefly felt where the object is to ascertain the amount of sul
             phuretted hydrogen, or of carbonic acid in a mineral water, by
                      it,

                                  a if

                                            is
             boiling and passing the gases over into solution calculated
                                                        is ;
             to absorb them.                                a
             In such cases, any portion of the water comes over with
             the gas, the result entirely vitiated and to prevent this,
             there seems to be convenience in the intervening bottle, which,
                                                             expected, should be
             however, where sulphuretted hydrogen
             filled with some gas not containing oxygen.
             After all, however, the simplest mode of ascertaining the
Suiphuret-

ted hydro- am0unt of sulphuretted hydrogen          is  by adding directly to the

gen          water some reagent, which precipitates          in state of combi
                                                        it
             nation.
                                                             a
                                                                 a
             Mr. Richard Phillips, in his analysis of spring near Wey-
             mouthf, has employed the nitrate of silver, which appears to be

                      f·      Brando's Journal of Science for 1828.
                              Phil. Mag., vol. iii. 158.
                                                p.
    report on Mineral and thermal waters.                              53

preferable to any other substance, as the only combinations
formed are the chloride and the sulphuret, of which the former
is soluble  in liquid ammonia, whilst the latter is not acted upon
    it      already stated, that M. Anglada considers the sul
by  I have

phuretted hydrogen of the Pyrenean springs to be combined
with an alkali. In order to determine whether this be the case

or not, the test he employs is a solution of arsenious acid*,                            
which gives a yellow precipitate with the free acid, but does                Azote.
not affect solutions of the hydrosulphuretsf.
   Azote is usually detected by negative trials, but an ingenious
method of directly proving its presence has lately been sug

gested.

   This is, to melt a piece of potass in contact with a slip of
zinc in the air suspected to containa            suspending over the two
a piece of turmeric paper, moistened.
The water of the potass will thus be decomposed, its oxygenit,
passing over to the zinc, and the hydrogen being liberated.
The latter, at the moment of its separation, unites with anya
azote that may be present, forming ammonia, which produces
its characteristic effect upon the test paper.

    The fabrication of factitious mineral waters, being entirely On factiti-
dependent on the knowledge we may possess of their chemical ous mineraI
constitution, seems to claim place immediately after the con- waters-
sideration of their analysis.
   The subject one which has excited considerable interest on
tthe Continent, in consequence of the labours of Dr. Struve of
Dresden, who has devoted himself, for number of years past,
                  ;to the imitation of those natural springs which possess the

                        ishighest reputation amongst his countrymen.
To do this completely, considerable skill in manipulation,
and a minute attention to several apparently unimportant cir

cumstances, are found to be requisite.
As the first step of the process, the water intended to be
mineralized, must be impregnated with the same amount, of car
bonic acid, and the other gases which its natural prototype
possesses and, in order to effect this object, the whole of the
atmospheric air existing in the water must be previously ex

pelled, and the carbonic acid added, under pressure, neither
greater nor less, than that to which  it
                                          is

                                                      a
                                                 subjected in nature.
All this time the fluid must be kept at the exact temperature

  · Memoires pour servir, &c, vol. ii.        on Chemistry  another method,

       Prof. Johnston mentions in his Reporl
p. 460.
54 SIXTH RBPORT -- 1836.

which the natural spring maintains, and access of air during
the continuance of the process must be scrupulously prevented.
This done, the same fixed ingredients must be presented to the
water, and no one principle omitted, however small may be its
quantity in nature, or however inert it may in itself be, it being
recollected that the introduction of a fresh substance, by the affi
nities it exerts, alters, according to the Berzelian doctrine, the
proportions of all the. salts previously existing in the water.
Nor is this all, for it is necessary that the water should be
maintained at the same temperature and under the same pres
sure till the very moment of drinking it.

    Similar precautions must be adopted during the act of bottling,
the bottle being previously filled with carbonic acid before the

water is passed into it : for if the vessel were already occupied

by atmospheric air, much of the carbonic acid existing in the
water would be expelled, and, consequently, a portion of the
earthy or metallic ingredients be thrown down.

   To fabricate, therefore, a successful imitation of a natural
spring, a more complicated apparatus is employed than was
formerly believed requisite, and the water must be made to pass
through various successive operations, before the process is
wound up by the addition of the saline ingredients by which it

is mineralized.

   When thus prepared, the factitious water will coincide with
the natural one in taste, smell, specific gravity, and other phy
sical properties. The gas-bubbles will rise in the same form,
and spontaneous decomposition will take place within the same
period and to the same extent.

   The mineral waters prepared by Struve really seem to fulfill
these conditions in a great degree, and have stood likewise the
test of a rigorous chemical analysis, without the detection of any
deviation from the original.

    Their pretensions, indeed, have been occasionally sneered at,
as might be expected, by the physicians and chemists, who have
taken under their patronage the interests of any one of those
natural waters, for which the artificial ones are offered as sub

stit"uteDsr.. Struve," says one*, " professed to prepare genuine

Carlsbad waters, prior to the analysis of Berzelius, who detected
in it six or eight new ingredients. He went on doing the same
after the discoveries of this great chemist had been announced.
Perhaps ten years hence we shall find half a dozen more princi
ples in the water. But no matter, for we shall always find at
Dr. Struve's a supply of the true and genuine Carlsbad water."

                      * IVez, Trail e des Euux de Wiesbaden, p. 93.
REPORT ON MINERAL AND THERMAL WATERS.                               55

   This is scarcely candid criticism. It may be admitted, in

deed, that an artificial mineral water can at best be only a near
approximation to the natural one, and that we can never be ab
solutely sure of having arrived at a knowledge of all the contents

of the latter.
   Yet even if we take the very case of the Carlsbad waters,

which are quoted againsr^Struve, how minute is the difference
between the analysis of Berzelius, and that of Klaproth, which
he had previously taken as his guide.

    Struve* indeed calculates, that during a month's use of these
waters, an individual who drank ten glasses full of them each
day, would not have consumed quite five grains of those ingre
dients, which Berzelius's analysis shows to have been over
looked, namely,

Of fluate of lime                     ....  2*58 grains

    Carbonate of strontia                   0*77 ,,
                                            0*18 ,,
    Phosphate of lime                       0'67 ,,
    Carbonate of magnesia
    Subphosphate of alumina                 0*26 ,,

                                      Total . . 4-46 3)

When, therefore, we have a mineral water prepared by art,
which possesses the same apparent physical properties belong
ing to the one which it is intended to imitate, and when the
best analysis, which the existing state of chemical science ad
mits, confirms this identity, there is surely no such antecedent
improbability, in the idea of its possessing similar medicinal
virtues, as should indispose us to receive the reports of medical
men, when they assure us that in this latter respect also the

same correspondence subsists*}*.
preSfetrielln, ceh,owIevcearn, noats  the natural spring will always deserve a
                                      think that Dr. Struve is happy in fixing,
as the main seat of his operations, upon Dresden, a city lying
not very remote from any of the springs which it has been his

business to imitate.

   It is rather in the branch establishments which have been set
up under his auspices, at Moscow, Warsaw, Konigsberg, and
Brighton, that the value of his method will be appreciated,
since the carbonated waters which he prepares are scarcely to
be met with in these countries, lying as they do beyond the
range of those volcanic phenomena, which extend from the

   · Ueber kun-itlich. Mineralwasser.                               of different

  + Half the substance of Struvc's work consists of the statements
physicians as to the efficacy of his artificial waters.
             56 SIXTH REPORT -- 1836.

             mountains of the TaunuB to those of Bohemia and Silesia, and of
             which this class of springs are among the consequences.

Products of Before I conclude this portion of my subject, it may be pro ·
springs.     per briefly to notice, to what extent mineral waters appear to

             have affected the geological structure of certain parts of the earth .
                Trivial as this influence may seem at present to be, yet it will
             be sufficient to refer to Mr. Lyell's well-known work, as esta
             blishing the position, that no inconsiderable portion of the crust
             of the globe, in volcanic countries at least, is attributable to the
             deposits which they have occasioned.
             Without pretending to describe the vast accumulations of tra
Calcareous.

             vertin  formed by  carbonated   sp&rcin,gsI,   in Tuscany,    in the Cam-
             pagna   di Roma,   in Hungary,                shall merely    remark, that

             the resemblance, which some varieties of this deposit bear to the
             materials of older calcareous rocks is so great, and the passage
             from one to the other so imperceptible, that we are naturally led
             to suspect the latter to have been often produced in the very

             same manner.

             Thus some varieties of travertin are undistinguiskable in hand
             specimens from marble, as that formed by the waters of Civita
             Vecchia in the Campagna *. Others, like that near the town
             of Nonette, on the right bank of the Allier in Auvergne, might

             be mistaken for the Juratic limestone t ; and the shelly lime
             stone, now forming at the bottom of many lakes, bears the most
             complete resemblance to certain tertiary deposits J.
             Even the concretionary structure of the limestone of Sunder
             land, a rock, which, though existing in the magnesian limestone
             formation, and in the midst of a powdery variety of dolomite, is
             itself almost wholly calcareous, is imitated by the spheroidal
             masses of travertin that occur at Tivoli and at Carlsbad, and
             may have resulted from the same gyratory motion of its com
             ponent parts during their deposition, to which Mr. Lyell has
             ingeniously attributed the concentric circles of the latter deposit.
             The absence of magnesia confirms this suspicion.
                In the ocean it is probable that mineral springs fulfill a still
             more important office-- that, namely, of supplying with calca
             reous mutter those Molluscae which are building up extensive

             coral reefs ; for, as I observed many years back §, the muriate of
             lime which the ocean contains, would long ago have been ex
             hausted by the operations of these animalcules, supposing them
             to have the power of decomposing it, and of appropriating its

                     t. * Lyell's Gcoloyy, vol. i. p. 198.                 p. 131.
                          Lecoq and Bouillct, Vues et Coupes d'Auveryne,
                     Jj  Lyell, Geol. Trans., 2nd Series, vol. ii. p. 73.
                         Inaugural Lecture o:i Chemistry, Oxford, 1824.
REPORT ON MINERAL AND THERMAL WATERS.                      57

base, unless we assume this salt to have existed originally in sea-
water, in such a proportion as would have been seemingly in
compatible with marine life.
Mr. Lyell has also justly remarked, that the same volcanic
agency, which has raised the bed of the ocean, sufficiently to admit
of its serving as a baset or the coral reefs which form within
also, by the carbonic acid which causes to be emitted, oc
it,casions a larger quantity of that calcareous matter, which theyis
         byrequire, to be dissolved by the water in their vicinity. Gypseousit
deposits are likewise often produced by springs of the present
                     isday, as noticed, with respect to those of Baden near Vienna by
Prevost, and that near the lake Amsanctus by myself.
                    itHow far the beds of sulphur which occur in volcanic districts,
and the sulphate of lime which associated with most beds of salt,
can be referred to the same, will be discussed afterwards; but we
must take care not to confound (as some writers appear to have
done,) the creative effects of mineral waters, with their decompois
sing agency. The latter illustrated in the deposits of the mud- Argiiia-
volcanos, as they are called, of South America, where vast masses cejus-
of matter, chiefly argillaceous, derived from felspathic rocks de
composed by water and acid vapours, are washed down into the

low country, and there constitute extensive beds.
The rocks described by Menge as formed            it byhot springs in
Iceland, are probably of the same description, fora    is
                                                           impossible
to follow this author in that portion of his statement, in which*,
he represents basalt, lava, and trap porphyry, as in the act of
being produced in them. He appeals indeed to the fact of his
extracting from the midst of boiling marsh, mass of matter,
                                               a

which when broken, exhibited the characters of basaltic lava in
the centre, and towards the surface passed gradually into red and
grey mud; but seems just as easy to explain this, by the de
composing influence of the water extending gradually from the
circumference to the centre, as by the contrary process taking
place in the reverse direction.

The siliceous formations actually deposited at the present Siliceous,

time by springs, appear to be comparatively insignificant, the
most important being those of Iceland, and of St. Michael in the

Azores. It probable, however, that under the sea, where the
influence of heat, and the chemical affinity of alkali, are height
ened the effect of an enormous pressure, beds of considerable

extent may be produced in this manner.
   Iron pyrites has been observed in deposit from the thermal Ferrugi-
                                         a

springs of Chaudes Aigues in the Cantal, owing probably to the nous-

· Edinb, Phil. Jvtirnnl, vol. ii.
            58 SIXTH REPORT -- 1836.

Bitumi      decomposition of sulphate of iron by organic matter*, and ochre
nous.       has been often observed forming, in the midst of travertin, small
            beds or veins, which owe their origin to the deposits from fer

            ruginous waters f.

               To petroleum springs, which so commonly arise from the ope
            rations of volcanic fire, Mr. Lyell is disposed to attribute the bi
            tuminous shales present in geological formations of different ages.

               Thus the phsenomena of mineral waters afford a clew to the
            origin of various constituents of our globe, which it would
            otherwise have been difficult to explain by the mere agency of
            water, and relieve us from the necessity of assuming the opera
            tion of causes that have ceased to exist, in order to explain the
            occurrence of minerals or beds composed of silica in the midst of
            Neptunian formations.

Origin of   Having now collected the principal facts of recent observa
springs in  tion which have fallen    uwnadteerrs,mIywniollticneexwt ipthrocreeesdpectot  to the na
            tural history of mineral                                                      state what
general.

            is known with respect to their origin, and the causes of their

            respective peculiarities.
               The notions entertained by our forefathers with respect to

            the formation of land springs by the infiltration of sea-water,
            deprived of its saltness by its passage through the intervening
            rocks, have long given place to the more rational theory which
            attributes them to the large reservoirs of rain-water, collected

            within the porous strata, and forced out by hydrostatic pressure,
            wherever a natural or artificial opening was created for them.

              A German writer, however, named Keferstein J, has attempted

            to cast doubts upon this explanation, and to substitute for it
            one founded upon certain fanciful speculations with respect to
            the earth's vitality, which seem to be the fitting progeny of an
            earlier stage of physical research.
               The earth being, according to him, one great animated being,
            performing functions of a nature analogous to those discharged
            by the living creatures that exist upon its surface, the produc
            tion of springs is regarded as the result of its respiration ; and
            the discharge of steam, carbonic acid, and nitrogen, together
            with the absorption of oxygen, is viewed as originating in pro
            cesses similar in kind, to those which are carried on by the
            lungs of animals.

               It is not my purpose to combat this strange hypothesis,
            though if there be any in this country who have already become

            converts to they may perhaps find excuses for applying its
            t·

                            it,
                                                                           t
            Berthier, Annales des Mines, 1810.                                Lecoq, Vues, Sfc. p. 120.

            In Kastner's Archiv, vol. iii. p. 359, and in his work entitled, Deulsch-

            land yvologisch dargestellt. Halle.
        REPORT ON MINERAL AND THERMAL WATERS.                    59

principles to the case of springs, by espying difficulties in cer
tainIt           instances  to  the application of the received
        special  however,   be  sufficient for my purpose to     theory.
          may,                                                   remark,
that, be the difficulties in question real or apparent, they are
not, at least, of moment enough, or applicable to a sufficient num
ber of cases, to induce more sober theorists to adopt the views,
which it has been proposed to substitute for the received ones.
   The majority of naturalists will be contented with appealing
to the researches of Dr. Dalton, who, in a paper published in
the Manchester Memoirs?, has shown the adequacy of the water
which descends from the heavens in the part of England he
inhabits, to supply the springs of that district, notwithstanding

the loss arising from evaporation.
   There appears indeed, from his calculation, to be an excess
of 2 inches per annum in the latter beyond the amount of rain
and dew which fall ; but this excess Dr. Dalton thinks may be
explained without resorting to any other supposition than the

one alluded to.
       Yet, although the general theory will scarcely admit of dis
pute, it is satisfactory to collect facts on this subject, in order
to compare with the former ; and one singularity has been ob
served in the instance of springs issuing from chiilk, which appear
to be most copious in June, and least so in Decemberf.
       This, however, seems referable to the slowness with which

water percolates so thick a stratum as the chalk, and is analo
gous to what has been observed with respect to terrestrial heat,
where the excess of summer temperature does not reach the
utmost limit of its progress into the earth till about the middle
of winter.
   Mr. HenwoodJ has also stated the quantity of water given

out by the springs in a certain district of Cornwall, as deter
mined by the amount raised by the engines in particular mines ;
and concludes, that it is greater by one third than that of the
rain falling in the country.
       This, however, may easily arise, owing to the mines drawing
water from a much larger surface, than the area of country di
rectly overlying them, which, as being the deepest spots for a
considerable distance, they may readily be conceived to do.

       ITo descend from the general theory of springs to the causes Origin of
ooff,  their rparticular  characters,  will first notice the circumstance tnermal
                                                                                                                 springs.
       temperature.

   * Vol. v. See also Arago on Artesian Wells, in the Annuaire for 1835,i.,
translated in Jameson's Journal.

  t Blaud in Phil. Magazine for 1832, p. 38.

   I Phil. Magazine, New Scries, vol. 1832, p. 28?.
60 SIXTH REPORT 1836.

According to Von Buch* all springs containing carbonic acid
are more or less thermal, and Gustavus Bischof goes so far as
to assert, that this remark extends universally to springs of con

stant temperaturef.
 JThe smallest difference, he says, between the warmth of the

springs of a country and that of the soil, is never less than 2
degrees     of Fahrenheit.
   But                      observed,  that  Bischof                generalized  on
            I have already
too narrow a basis, when he inferred from the observations

quoItteids  in his memoir the universality   of such a law.         of obser
            one indeed directly at variance  with the tenour
vations made within the tropics, which seem to show, that in
warm climates the mean temperature of the atmosphere is even
higher than that of the perennial springs J.
   And if the remark be limited to colder regions, many ano

malies require to be reconciled, and a much more extensive se
ries of observations gone through, before it can be decided,
whether this augmentation of temperature be the result of a ge
neral law, or of local circumstances. Thus, for example,4
                                                                                 as
                                  by
Humboldt and others have supposed, the excess of temperatureis
in springs over the atmosphere increases with the latitude, then
                                                                         if,Bischof as the minimum in
indeed the temperature assigned                                                    ;
the case of those near Andernach, in lat. 50^°, squares very well
with the rate of progression indicated by observations, on the
springs of Paris in    lat. 49°, and those   of  Berlin in lat. 52^0§.
   For at Paris the    mean temperature      of  the climate was found

at 51°*6, and that of the springs 52°"7, the excess being 1°-1
whilst at Berlin the atmospheric temperature was 46°-4, terres
trial 50o-2, excess 30,8, indicating a rate of progression equal to
about l0-8 of temperature to 1° of latitude.

But, on the other hand, the accurate observations of Playfair
have shown, that at Edinburgh, in a still higher latitude, viz.
55°-58, the temperature of springs identical with that of the

atmosphere, so that the supposed progression would seem to be
confined to a still higher latitude than this.
Neither are the observations of Wahlenberg in the Scandina-

Xt ·   PoggendoriFs Annalen, vol. xii. p. 15.
      Edinburgh New Phil. Journal for April 1836.
                    ;See Von Buch, on the Temperature of Springs, Edinburgh New Phil.
Journal, October, 1828, or his work on the Canary Islands, p. 84, French
translation where he accounts for the fact, from the circumstance of the
springs being derived from rain, which had fallen exclusively during the
colder months, and which does not readily acquire, within the slowly con
ducting substance of the strata containing them, the temperature of the hotter
portions of the year. See also Bischof often quoted memoir, in which he dis
putes the general law, and supposes the tropical springs alluded to, to have been
derived from high mountains, and therefore to possess lower temperature.
       Humboldt on Isothermal Lines, Edinburgh Neu: Phil. Journal.
                            s
                                                                 a

§
       REPORT ON MINERAL AND THERMAL WATERS.                               61

rian Peninsula *, nor those of Kupffer on the Ural range f, ab
solutely conclusive, as to the generality of the supposed law even
in the high latitudes to which they refer.
The elevation of temperature may, for ought we know, be con
fined to the neighbourhood of uplifted chains of mountains ; it
may be a consequence of those great natural events to which are
owing the disturbances there experienced ; and consequently it
may not extend to the great plains of Russia or Siberia, where

no such local influences exist. Or if it should be found on further
examination to be general in northern latitudes, it will still re

main to be discussed, before referring it to central heat, whether

the phenomenon may not depend upon the cause suggested by
Von Buch in the memoir before referred to, namely, that the
transmission of temperature through the earth chiefly takes
place by the infiltration of water, a cause which, of course,

ceases to operate below 32°.
Granting, however, that the springs, which Bischof has no
ticed, owe their excess of temperature in part to a generally per
vading cause of heat, we have still to account for the enormous
differences in
                this respect existing between  one    and  another,  and
this is what I   now propose to consider.
The degree in which they exceed the mean of the climate is

dependent, amongst other circumstances, on the elevation on the
earth's surface at which they issue.
   Von Buch X has given various instances of springs, belonging

to the same district, but bursting out at different heights, which,
though they may correspond in mineral and gaseous impregna
tion, differ materially in temperature, the lowest being the hot

test.

Boussingault§ also states, that in the littoral chain of Vene
zuela the temperature of the thermal springs is less in propor
tion as their absolute height is greater.
Thus the warm spring of Las Funcheras near Puerto Cabello,
which approaches the level of the sea, possesses a temperature of
97° cent. That of Manaro, at a height of 476 metres, has only
one of 64° ; and that of Onoto, at 702 metres, only 44°'5.

   This regularity, however, does not extend to hot springs in
immediate contact with volcanos. Von Buch || conjectures, that
the heat of such springs is derived from the carbonic acid which
impregnates them, and which possesses itself a high temperature,
as having proceeded from a great depth.

* Annals of Philosophy, vol. iv. 1814, translated from Gilbert's Annalen.
+ Kupffer in Edinburgh New Phil. Journal, vol. xxii.
X PoggendorfTs Annalen, vol. xxii.           § Annates de Chimie, 1831.
I! PoggendorfTs Annalen, vol. xii. p. 4 15.
               62 SIXTH RKPORT -- 1836.

               This, however, is controverted by Bischof *, who shows clearly
               that no considerable augmentation could have arisen from such

               a cause.

                 Brongniart, in an article t in the Diclionnaire ties Sciences
               Naturelles, has pointed out, that the temperature of thermal
               springs is regulated by the nature of the rocks from which they

               issue.

               The hottest are those associated with recent volcanos, next

               those proceeding from extinct ones, or from primary rocks, and
               lowest in the scale such as are connected with younger forma

               tions ; and though this rule may admit of exceptions, yet it
               seems to hold good in the majority of cases.
               Now this observation of Brongniart will be found to har
   Geological

   Iposition of          and to point the same way,   with the conclusions to
                          have myself been conducted  by the study of thermal
   thermal
   springs :
               monize,
               which
               springs, a summary of which will be found in an article in the
               London Review for 1829, and in a memoir inserted in the Edin
               buIrnghthNeseewpuPbhliilcoasotipohniscaIlhaJvoeuartnteaml pftoerd
                                                                                  1831.      that  by far  the
                                                                                   to show,

               majority of thermal waters arise, either from rocks of a volcanic
               nature, from the vicinity of some uplifted chain of mountains,
               or lastly, from clefts and fissures caused by disruption.

                  In many cases, indeed, all the above circumstances are seen
               combined ; for the same spring may at once issue from the midst
               of volcanic products, be situated at the foot of an uplifted chain,
               and proceed out of a chasm or fissure ; so that, in classifying

               springs according to the above plan, we should find many
               perhaps possessing an equal claim to a place in all the three di
               visions.
                  This circumstance, however, although it might prevent our
               adopting the above distinction, as the basis of a classification of
               mineral springs, only adds strength to the argument in favour of

               Ia common origin being ascribed to them.
   1st, near      With   respect  atosuthbeseqfiursetntofpatpheerseJ,cltahsastes   of        springs,     have
   rolcanos.             out in                                                   they        may be   placed
               pointed
               under two heads, namely, first, those impregnated with gases
               which are derived from volcanic energy, and probably owe their
               origin to processes now continuing ; and secondly, those which,
               from the absence of such accompaniments, seem to be nothing
               more than reservoirs of water heated by coming into contact,
               with a mass of rock, retaining some of the warmth it had acquired
               from the volcanic operations of an antecedent period.
               The springs of Mount Dor, of Hungary, and some of those in

               · On Hot and Thermal Springs, Ed. Journal, 1836.                                    t Eaux.
               I On a Spring at Torre del Annunziata in Edinb. New Phil. Journal, 1835.

X
REPORT ON MINERAL AND THERMAL WATERS.                              63

the Andes,  are instances of the former ; those  ohfeaIsdchoifa,"  noticed
by myself,  and those enumerated under the                          simple
thermal waters," by Anglada*, and by Fode"r£-(-, which latter are
Icalled in the country chaudons, and spring from below beds of

gypsum, consider to be illustrative of the latter.
The connexion of thermal waters with uplifted chains will 2nd, near
best be seen by  coupling this description of springs with the              sy8teTM8 of
carbonated ones   which usually accompany them, and which,                  eeyatlon-

from the similarity of their mineral, and still more of their gaseous
constitution, no less than that of their geological position, seem
plainly referable to the same system of causes.
Gustavus Bischof, in the work so often quoted, has enume
rated nine of these groups existing in different parts of Europe,
alike impregnated with carbonic acid and soda. These are

    1. The springs of the Eyfel and Siebengebirge.
    2. Those of the Westerwald and Taunus.

   3. Of the Habichtswald, Meissner, Vogelsgebirge, and Rhon-

gebirge.

   4. Of the Fichtelgebirge.
   5. Of the Erzgebirge.
   6. Of the Bohemian Mittelgebirge.
   7- Of the Riesengebirge in Silesia.
   8. Of Auvergne and the Vivarais in France.
   9. Of the Pyrenees +.
   Now it is to be observed, that of the above groups two,

namely, the mineral springs of the Rhine Province, and those of
Central France, belong to our antecedent class ; and that a por
tion at least of the sixth group is allied to the same, since the
mineral waters of Toeplitz aud Bilin are manifestly in connex
ion with the porphyry-slate, and the volcanic products of the
Mittelgebirge, and those of Franzensbad, with the little volcanic
crater and scoriform lava of the Kammerburg in its immediate

neighbourhood.
   With regard to the remainder, it may be remarked, that

the existence of trappean or porphyritic rocks in the vicinity

of many of them, is a circumstance strongly corroborative of
their volcanic origin, and consequently of the operation of forces

capable of uplifting the mountains in their vicinity.

   It is likewise a negative proof of the same connexion, that no

mineral springs of such a constitution are found on the continent
of Europe, considerably north of the limit to which basaltic and

   · Vol. ii. p. 170.                           the existence  of carbonic
   t Voyages aux Alpes marilimes, p. 155.

  J We have seen, however, that Anglada denies

acid in these waters.
             64 SIXTH REPORT-- 1836.

             trappean rocks extend, a limit which nearly coincides with the
             line of elevation  passing through the centre of Germany.
                                at least, that throughout those vast tracts       of
                It is certain,
             comparatively level country, which constitute the greater part of
             Northern Russia, Poland, and Prussia, neither basaltic rocks, nor

             thermal or carbonated springs have been noticed, whilst both the
             one and the other appear to become more and more abundant,
             in proportion as other indications of volcanic action appear.
             The above-mentioned groups however constitute but a small
                    of those distributed
             parIt  have already shown,   throughout Europe.             of  the  Alps
                                          that the thermal springs
             often contain alkali, and the occasional absence of that ingre
             dient ought surely not to place them in another class, when their
             gaseous impregnation and other phenomena coincide with those
             included under it.
             There is therefore a group of thermal springs manifesting
             itself, both in the central chain of the Alps, as at Baden in
             Argau, Schinznach, Pfeffers, and Loueche, and on its western
             and southern flank, at Aix in Savoy, St. Didier, Bonneval, and
             at Acqui and Coni in Piedmont.
                Nor are other chains of mountains destitute of their own ap
             propriate systems of thermal and carbonated springs. To men
             tion one of the least known, that indefatigable geologist,
             Dr. Bou£, who has lately been exploring the provinces of
             European Turkey, informs me, that in Servia and Bosnia, there
             exist acidulous and saline mineral waters, like those of Nassau,
             and that in the western part of the former province, as well as
             in Bulgaria, a line of hot springs with sulphuretted hydrogen,
             and probably azote, makes its appearance.
             The line begins at Mehadia in the Bannat, and continues to
             the south of Nissa. The great masses of travertin found in
             the neighbourhood denote, that carbonic acid was formerly
             evolved in large quantities.
             South of the Balkan and Orbelus, is a line of hot springs,
             running from east to west, which also contain sulphuretted
             hydrogen. Their highest temperature is 58° R. (162° Fahr.).

                Eruptions of trachyte and dolerite seem to have been the pre
             cursors of the bursting out of these latter springs.
             Without extending our inquiry into other parts of the globe,
             where it would be easy to point out groups of mineral springs
             similarly constituted, let us consider how the latter stand re
                                          in the vicinity of which they
Relation     lated   to the   mountains  have remarked in the memoir     lie.
                    would                                                on Thermal
               It            seem, as I

spring to    Waters before referred to, that a large proportion of them are
             placed near the line at which the elevation of the chain appears
the rociu

contiguous.
         REPORT ON MINERAL AND THERMAL WATERS.                      G5

to have commenced ; but that when situated near to its axis,

they generally occur in some deep valley, and consequently at a
comparatively low level.
   This is the case with                             in the
and with St. Gervais in   Barege and Cauterets                      Pyrenees,
                                                      as M.         Delarive*
                          the Alps, which latter,
had many years ago observed, is situated exactly on the spot
which, of all others, unites most completely the conditions, of
approaching in the nearest degree to the centre of the chain, and
                               elaenvaitnetderaebsotvinegthme elemvoeilroftothewohcicehanI.
being at the same  time least
   But Professor   Forbes, in

have already had occasion to referf, points out other circum
stances of physical constitution, which seem to characterize the
greater part, at least, of springs of this description.
He has shown, by an extensive induction of particulars, that
the thermal springs of the Pyrenees, for the most part gush out
from the vicinity of intrusive rocks, such as granite, serpentine,
greenstone, and the like ; moreover, that the structure and po
sition of the stratum through which the latter have been thrust,
are both of such a nature as to afford indications of violence.

Several of these thermal waters he has even traced, rising ex

actly from the line of junction between the granite and the
stratified rock.

   And   this brings    me to the consideration of the     third circum-                     3rdiy. Con
stance   alluded to as  characterizing thermal waters                                        %«°u? to
                                                           ; I mean their
connexion with faults or dislocations.
   This mutual relation is illustrated      by  the  case  of  the  Carlsbad                 fauHs'or6
                                                                                             dislocations.

springs, according to the description of them given by Von HoffJ.
   They are described by him as issuing from the bottom of a
narrow glen, bearing in itself the evidences of some great natural
convulsion.

   It lies nearly at right angles to the valleys of denudation that

exist in the immediate neighbourhood ; it is more narrow and
more precipitous than the latter ; and, as Von Hoff states, the
granite which forms the fundamental rock, is overlaid by a
breccia, made up of fragments of this rock cemented together by
a siliceous paste, which is in great measure covered over by the
calc. sinter deposited at present by the springs, but in one side of
the valley protrudes itself, and appears above it.
This breccia Von Hoff attributes to the spring, which in former
times,   like those of
but as,                 Iceland, may have   Ideposited siliceous    matter ;
         on a recent    visit to Carlsbad,     could perceive no    kind of

Ibreccia that bore the appearance of having been cemented by

the materials of a thermal water, am disposed to doubt this

         · Bibliothigue Brilannique.        t Phil. Trans. 1836.
vol. f--X Geognostiche bemerkunyen fiber Karlsbad. Gotha, 1825.

        v. 1836.
06 SIXTH REPORT-- 1836.

part of Von Hoffs statement, although able to confirm the gene
ral truth of his representation.

   Stifft, in his geological description of the neighbourhood
of Wiesbaden*, remarks, that the following facts have been ob
served by himself relative to the springs of the Nassau territory.
   1st. That they follow distinctly six lines, and thus evince a

determinate direction.

2nd. That the rocks in their neighbourhood manifest evident
changes in the direction and inclination of their strata, especially
saddle-shaped elevations, often accompanied with fractures.

   3rd. That in many places the adjacent rocks themselves ap

Ipear altered, and are more friable than elsewhere.

   In my memoir on Thermal Springs already referred to, have

pointed out several instances of the same connexion, between
the existence of evidences of dislocation in the strata, and the
bursting out of thermal springs, as occurring along the line of
the Pyrenean chain, as at Aleth, Rennes, and Campagne, and
still more remarkably at St. Paul de Fenouilhedes, on the road
from Carcassone to Perpignan, near the town of Caudiez, all in
Roussillon. The same fact is still more strikingly illustrated, by
the structure of the country at St. Vincent's rock6, as described
by Conybeare and Bucklandf , and at Matlock, as long ago
pointed out by WhitehurstJ ; for, since the rocks from which the
thermal waters in these two instances proceed, are stratified, the
inference, to which the mere inspection of the localities conducts
us, is confirmed by the unconformable disposition of the strata
themselves ; we not only observe springs gushing out from a
narrow and precipitous cleft, but we find on examination the
strata tilted up and disarranged, in a manner which implies that

some violent action must have taken place. Mr. Murchison
and Mr. Lyell§ have also remarked, that the hot spring of Aix
in Provence lies contiguous to some remarkable dislocations of

the strata.

   We must not, indeed, strain too far our inferences from this
one circumstance ; for it is probable, as has lately been shown by
Mr. Hopkins that natural springs, of whatever temperature,
have their origin very commonly in fissures, which appear owing
to dislocations or disturbances in the strata.
\\ § J t

                        ||,
                                                           i.
The latter, however, exhibit no evidences of violence, at all

comparable to those afforded by the great natural chasms, to

* In Rullnian's Wiesbaden.                                     New Series, " On the South West Coal
    Geological Transactions, vol.
Field of England."
Whitchurst's Tlieory of the Earth, 1786.
Edinburgh New Philosophical Journal.

Cambridge Philosophical Transactions, 1836.
           REPORT ON MINERAL AND THERMAL WATERS.                                 67

which I have principally appealed, exhibited at Carlsbad, Mat
lock, and Clifton.
And it is only in the last of these instances, where, fortunately
for our argument, the evidence is of a more decisive character
than in the rest, that we are unable to strengthen it by other
collateral proofs, derived from the presence of intrusive rocks,
or the general       aepxpaemapralenscecitoefdt,hIe
                                                     surrounding country.        to
   In the other                                      might have been indisposed

build upon this one fact, as a decisive proof of violent action
having taken place in the locality, had not the probability of
such events having occurred, obtained confirmation from other

circumstances that had been pointed out.
Thus at Carlsbad, the existence of volcanic products both to
the east and west of the spot, as well as the propinquity of the
spring itself to a mountain range, which doubtless owes its ele
vation to volcanic forces, together strengthen the inference
which the particular character of the locality would dispose us

to adopt.

   It appears then, that the geological position of thermal waters Theories of

in general leads to the conclusion, that they are connected with thermal
certain volcanic processes going on near the places in which 8Prin8s-
they occur ; but it must be at the same time admitted, that in a
few special cases a high temperature is imparted to the springs Local
of a district, by causes of a more local and superficial character. causes'

   Thus Kastner* states, that in the Westerwald, between Ma-
rienburg and Stockhausen, the burning of brown coal under
ground has caused so great a heat in the contiguous rocks, as to
give rise to several warm springs, which are characterized by
the presence of acetic and succinic acids, both probably derived
from the slow distillation of lignite.

    Setting aside, however, these comparatively rare and special General
cases, let us next briefly consider, how far the facts detailed in causes-
the preceding part of this Report, will assist us in explaining
the cause of that exalted temperature, which thermal springs
in common with other volcanic phenomena exhibit.

   With respect to this question, a recent memoir by Professor
Bischof of Bonnf, may be quoted, as disposing successfully of
the hypotheses, in which certain chemical processes going on at
the present time near the surface, such, for example, as the de
composition of pyrites, were appealed to, as capable of producing
the heat which these springs possess. He has also said enough
respecting another hypothesis, that of Anglada, who attributes

· Archiv, vol. ivi.  f Edinburgh New Philosophical Journal, April, 1836.
                                         F2

                                                                                     ,
          G8 SIXTH REPORT 183(5.

          the heat of springs to the action of electricity. This mighty
          agent is doubtless concerned in many of the changes which go
          on in rocks, but before we attribute to it the production of that
          steady heat which resides in certain springs, we ought to con
          sider, what peculiar disposition of strata would be necessary to
          give rise to it, what evidence there is of such a disposition exist

          ing, and why, if it exist at all, it be not more general, and thus
          render the occurrence of hot springs less a local phenomenon.]

             None of these questions having been entered upon by An-
          glada, it would be superfluous at present to proceed to a formal
          Iconsideration of his hypothesis.

             Neither need dwell upon any such hypotheses, as are founded
          on assumptions, which either seem contrary to acknowledged
          principles of physics, or which would be rejected by the general
          voice of men of science as absurd and fanciful.

            Thus I shall do no more than allude to the mode, in which
          Aristotle somewhere accounts for the high temperature of springe,
          by supposing, that as the figure of the earth is spherical, the
          solar rays penetrating its substance, ought to meet in the centre,
          as in the focus of a burning glass, and thus produce there ar»
          inteNnesiethedregsrheaellofI
                                        heat.    to refute  the idea of Keferstein, that
                                         labour

          thermal springs are merely the result of, what he is pleased to
          call, the respiratory process of the earth, resting, as that opinion
                 uapponositthioena,swsuhmicphtioIna, mthloatththseergioloubselyittosealfttaiscka, nnaont ikmnaotewd
          does,
          body,
          ing in what precise sense his language is to be interpreted.

Chemical     But there remain two theories with respect to the origin of
state'/
          thermal springs, that seem to deserve a more attentive con
          sideration.

             The former of these supposes them to arise from chemical
          processes carried on within the earth, processes, however,
          which possess nothing, in common with those witnessed on or
          near the surface, except the circumstance of being attended with

          an Iafbsitorpbetionfurothfeorxydgeemn.anded of the advocates of this theory,

          what particidar chemical processes are alluded to, they will pro
          bably reply*, that a competent explanation of the phenomena

          * They ought however carefully to distinguish, between that which appears
          to be a direct inference from observed facts, and what at the most can ad
          vance no higher claim, than of being a plausible conjecture. The general
          occurrence of volcanos in the neighbourhood of the sea, and the constant
          disengagement of aqueous vapour and of sea-salt from their interior, are
          facts, which establish        in my mind a conviction, that    water finds    its way  to
          the seat of the igneous       operations, almost as complete,                 myself   an
                                                                          as if I were
           REPORT ON MINERAL AND THERMAL WATERS.                           69

would be afforded, by the supposed oxidation of the bases, of
those alkalis, earths, and metallic oxides, which are found to

constitute the crust of the globe, through the agency, first of
water, and afterwards of atmospheric air.
   Such, in a few words, was the theory              which    I  adopted,  to

atthrcuacstotu,snuatbnjefoicmrt ptihanert1ipa8hl2a6reenfvoi;emawenndoafotfothevthoeqlcuasenasomtsioe*n, ,ianfItaearwmoarsktmilpal utdubirlseisp,hoesadendd,otnoI

adhere, in preference at least to any other.

phoadlIintbaeanenan,asIrutbihcsaleevqeeueennntidttleyleadvuorGugreeedodlaotggoayinr,estpinlmytyhteoviEaenwllcstyhc;eloaapnrdegeuidfmiIaenhMtasveettnhroaot-t

noticed every individual objection, it has only been, because
the same difficulties were brought forward again and again by
                           often without any allusion being
different  pwehriscohnsI,  had given to similar ones before.     made to the
answers,

The latter theory, discarding all chemical operations whatso- Theory of
                                                                 the internal
ever,   regards thermal springs as arising merely from           temperature                                                                                      «hena^t. »l
heat    of the globe, and consequently as possessing a

high, in proportion to the depth from which they have themselves

proceeded.
For, as the temperature of the earth augments, as we descend,
on the average, about l°of Fahr. for                          it is evident,
that, if the increase be progressive,  every 100 feet,        arrive at its
                                        water would

boiling point at a depth not exceeding three miles, and there is
no difficulty in understanding, that it should retain the greater
part of that exalted temperature, when once the channels and
passages in the rock, through which it reached the surface, were

thoroughly penetrated by the heat.
   The theory just mentioned is sanctioned by the high autho-

eye- witness of another Phlegethon discharging itself into the bowels of the
earth, in every volcanic district, as in the solitary case of Cephalonia.
   Nor, as I shall afterwards attempt to prove, is the access of atmospheric
air to volcanos more questionable, than that of water ; so that the appearance,
of hydrogen united with sulphur, and of nitrogen, either alone, or combined
with hydrogen, at the mouth of the volcano, seems a direct proof, that oxygen
has been abstracted by some process or other from both.
Having satisfied our minds with regard to the fact of internal oxidation,
we naturally turn to consider, what principles can have existed in the inte
rior  of the earth, capable  of abstracting oxygen   from water, as well as from
air;  and this leads us to   speculate on the bases   of the earths and alkalis as
having caused it. But in ascribing the phenomena to the oxidation of these
bodies, we ought not to lose sight of the Baconian maxim, that in every well-
established theory, the cause assigned should be, not only competent to explain
the phenomena, but also known to have a real existence, which latter cannot
be predicated of my alkaline and earthy metalloids in the interior of the
earth.
* Description of Active and Extinct Volcanos. London, 1826.
70 SIXTH REPORT -- 1836.

rity of Laplace, and has also received the support of many mo

dern naturalists.

Professor Bischof *, in adopting it, has undertaken in a late
paper first of     all                                                                        in  at
tempting so to     do,  thoasre, fuIteconthceeiveo,ppmosisitteakehnyptohtehevsieisw, s  but  its  ad
                                                                                        of

vocates.

   Thus he quotes an experiment of his own, in which the com
bustion of 15 grains of sodium, in water containing a quantity of
sulphuric and muriatic acid, such as would be adequate to form
the saline matter present in a particular thermal spring, raised
the temperature of 1000 grains of water scarcely 3 ; and this
he alleges as a proof, that the heat cannot have arisen from any
process of oxidation in which sodium acts a part.
   But under either view of the subject, the increased tempera
ture of the spring must be attributed to that of the contiguous
rocks, the only question being, do these rocks derive their high
temperature from a central fluid mass, or from chemical pro
cesses taking place generally in the interior  Iof the globe?
   Having discussed this question at length                                                  will  at
                                               elsewhere,
present confine myself to remarking, that the supporters of Bi
schof s views ought to be able to explain tous,why thermal springs
are of local occurrence, and most frequent in proportion to the
frequency of other indications of igneous activity ; and if these
latter indications are assumed to be themselves nothing more,
than the result of the contraction of the earth's crust upon its
internal fluid contents, why that contraction should be always
accompanied with those exertions of explosive energy which we
witness in volcanos, and those emissions of gas which are com

mon to both.

They should also explain to us, why primary rocks, traversed
as they so frequently are with fissures of all descriptions, should
not in every part of the world, and in every kind of situation, give
rise to hot springs, by evolving steam from their interior, and
why they never appear to give issue to that class of thermal

Iwaters, which have noticed in Ischia as being unaccompanied
Iwith gaseous products, and which therefore suppose, to be

purely the result of the infiltration of water to spots in the in
terior of the earth retaining a high temperature.
   In order however duly to appreciate the degree of support,
which the chemical      theory of thermal
from the nature of      the gases which    waters appears to                                  derive
                                           accompany them,
                                                                                             I shall
next propose to consider in detail the manner, in which these

elastic fluids may severally be supposed to have been generated.

                   * Edinburgh Phil. Journal for April 1836.
    REPORT ON MINERAL AND THERMAL WATERS.                                      71

    The carbonic acid, which is so frequent an accompaniment of Origin of
thermal waters, is explained by Biscbof *, as deriving its origin ll.ie c"l)°-
from the calcination of earthy carbonates by the
and to this view there seems to be no objection,                   heat beneath ;   evoi"ce'd
                                                                   provided only    from

we admit, that a portion of water is present, without which, si,rinss-
as Faraday has shown, no disengagement of carbonic acid would
take place under the influence of even a great heat.
   But that the amount of carbonic acid emitted bears some re
lation to the igneous or eruptive agency heretofore exerted, will
appear by a mere enumeration of the localities in which this gas
most abounds.

    IPassing over its copious emission in the neighbourhood of
active and  extinct volcanos,                      may notice the observations of
            who has stated, that                   the carbonic acid so abundantly
Hoffman t,

evolved at Pyrmont, rises out of what he describes as a circular
valley of elevation, caused by the heaving up of the rocks in all
directions round this central point.
    Sometimes also the evolution of carbonic acid is connected
with faults, as has been observed by Professor Phillips with re
spect to the carbonated or petrifying springs of Yorkshire %.
   So general indeed is the distribution of calcareous rocks in

Ithe older, as well as the more modern formations, that do not
see the force of the objection started by Berzelius to the chemical
Itheory of volcanos, in a notice with which he some years ago

honoured the work had published on that subject §, in which
he says, that it fails in accounting for the extrication of carbonic
acid gas, as a consequence of volcanic action.
   For my own part, inasmuch as an intense degree of heat is the
immediate effect of these operations, and as rocks containing

Icarbonic acid in a fixed state are so generally diffused, should
conceive that the extrication of this gas would have been anti
cipated to be a natural result of the process ; unless, indeed, by
those theorists, who, maintaining the contrary hypothesis in its
simplest form, refuse even to admit that water has had any ne
cessary share in the phaenomena.

The evolution of nitrogen from springs has been discussed by origin of
Berzelius, Anglada, and others.                                                     thc nitt°-

Berzelius|| supposes it to arise from the decomposition of the gen-
organic matter which these waters contain, whilst Anglada^[

* Vulkanischen Mineralquelkn, p. 255.
T On Valleys of Elevation, Edinburgh, New Phil. Journal, October, 1830.
J See my memoir on Thermal Springs already referred to.
    J"ahArneaslbyesreichdet,s  vol. vii. p. 352.
§                              Eaux dc Carlsbad,"  Ann. de Chim.,  vol.xxiii.
||
II Memoires pour servir, 8fc.
73 SIXTH REPORT -- 1836.

refers it to the atmospheric air present in them, the oxygen of

which is absorbed by the sulphur found along with it.
   The theory of Berzelius may perhaps suit those cases, in which

the quantity disengaged is small, but can scarcely be extended
to others, in which it is more considerable.

   No amount of organic matter, that can be supposed to exist
in the thermal water, could produce a constant supply of nitrogen,
continuing for hundreds and probably thousands of years, equal
on an average to 222 cubic feet in the 24 hours, as at the hot
spring of Bath.

  It would also have seemed needless to remark, had not the

circumstance been overlooked by some who have commented
upon this phsenomenon, that the decomposition of organic mat
ter would generate other gases never met with amongst thermal
springs, especially carburetted hydrogen, which is actually found
to accompany nitrogen in cases where the latter proceeds from
organic matter, as was determined, with respect to the gas that

renders buoyant the floating island of Derwentwater, by Dr. Dal-

ton.

The explanation of Anglada seems to me only faulty in not

being sufficiently general.
   Sulphur no doubt is one of the principles by which the oxygen

is abstracted, but it does not seem probable that it should be the
only one ; and the case of Bath alone serves to show, that it is
sometimes absent altogether from waters, where the evolution
of nitrogen is most abundant.
   In short, the only direct inference, that seems deducible from
the fact of the copious evolution of nitrogen from thermal
waters is, that certain processes, occasioning the abstraction of
oxygen from common air, are going on in the interior of the

earth.

   This inference remains the same, whether we suppose the
nitrogen emitted, to consist merely of that carried down by
the atmospheric waters, by which the thermal spring is main
tained, or to be the residue of the atmospheric air, that had

found its way into cavities, where these processes are taking

place.
Both explanations may occasionally be true ; but whichever
one we choose to adopt, the ultimate fact is still as before,
         that a quantity of air, which, if derived from the
namely,                                                      atmo
sphere,  contained originally j-th of its volume of oxygen,
                                                             and if
from atmospheric water, would contain nearly double that amount,
returns to the surface, often with scarcely T^th, and at most
with not more than yjyth, of this latter ingredient.
   That atmospheric air does find its way into the interior of the
REPORT ON MINERAL AND THKRMAL WATERS.                         73

globe, and probably pervades every portion of its solid contents,
is a fact, of which a little reflection will convince us.

Independently of, the cracks and fissures, by which the earth's
crust is everywhere intersected, the large cavities it so frequently

envelopes, and its general porosity and permeability to water
containing air in solution, the solid strata themselves have the

property, as has been shown by Saussure*, in various degrees,

of absorbing oxygen and nitrogen gases ; though it is to be re
marked, that by a curious provision of nature, apparently de
signed to forward the process of internal oxidation, the two
gases are absorbed, not in .the proportion of five to one, but in

nearly equal ratios.    of Hallef   is the only person,   so far as I
    Professor Meinecke

know, who has availed himself of this, as a principle on which
to explain other phenomena ; and his remarks, owing to certain
loose and fanciful speculations interwoven with them, have not

yet obtained much attention.

   Nevertheless, if it be true, that air pervades even the solid
portions of our globe, down at least to a considerable depth, it
seems not absurd to imagine, that it may suddenly be augmented
by an increase of atmospheric pressure above, or diminished by
processes taking place in the interior of the earth.
Such, in the main, are the views of Professor Meinecke, who

imagines the amount of air retained in the interior of the earth,
to be in a state of constant oscillation, and thus, reacting upon
the atmosphere above, to be one of the causes of the variation
of the barometer. He even attributes, to an extraordinary ab
sorption of air within the earth, a remarkable sinking of the
barometer, which took place without any other assignable cause
at Christmas 1821.

The sulphuretted hydrogen, which so many springs contain, Origin of
                                     of                       alka-
has been  attributed to the action  M.   organic matter upon  cited    djesui-
line and  earthy sulphates; and          Henry of Paris! nas           hydrogen,

an example, where a spring, which at its source contained sul
phates of soda, magnesia, and lime, but no sulphuretted hydro
gen, was found to have acquired a trace of that gas, at the ex
pense of its sulphuric acid, after mixing with the water of a

washing place.

   It seems probable, that the hepatic smells, which occur in the
waste and stagnant waters of towns, sometimes arise from this

          * Bibliolheque Britannique, vol. xlix. p. 319.

          t Schweigger's Journal, vol. viii. 1823.
          J Journal de Pharmaciv for 1827, p. 493.
          74 SIXTH REPORT-- 1836.

          cause; and M. Brongniart* attributes the sulphuretted hydro
          gen present in the mineral water of Enghien, to the action of
          organic matter upon beds of gypsum belonging to the Paris

          Basin.
              But no one would attempt to explain in this manner, the sul

          phuretted hydrogen contained in many thermal waters, still less
          that evolved from volcanos ; a phenomenon, which seems to me
          to supply just the same evidence of the decomposition of water
          within the earth, which the emission of nitrogen affords of the

          abstraction of oxygen from atmospheric air. And if it should

          be established, as many observers of volcanic phenomena have
          thought probable, that the sulphur, which finds its way to the
          surface by the agency of volcanos, is always held in solution
          either by oxygen or hydrogen gases, the enormous quantity of
          either principle which is sent back to the atmosphere in con
          junction with this Inflammable, may be in some measure appre
          ciated from one circumstance alone, namely, from the vast beds
          of volcanic sulphur accumulated in many parts of Italy, and still
          more remarkably in Sicily.

              Professor Phillips is even of opinion, that the origin of the mi
          neral impregnation of the waters of Harrogate is to be ascribed,
          to the chemical effects specially exerted along the line of a
          subterranean disturbance, which he has traced in the vicinity
          of these springs ; and Mr. Murchison has been led to similar
          conclusions, with respect to the sulphureous spring of Llanwr-
          tyd, by the geological structure of that locality.

origin        The only remaining class of springs, that requires further no
of salt   tice, is that which contains common salt, and the other ingre
springs.  dients of our present seas.

             The origin of these springs from masses of salt or muriatiferous
          clays, produced by the evaporation of sea-water, or of lakes
          of similar composition, would seem sufficiently obvious ; and

          Mr. Lyellf has even attempted to explain the manner, in which

          a deposition of salt may be taking place at the present day from
          the waters of the Mediterranean, so as eventually to build up a
          bed of rock salt underneath it.

             But although the law of the increasing specific gravity! of
          water, in proportion to the degree of its saline impregnation,
          would favour the process of deposition, when once it had com
          menced, by keeping up a constant supply of the strongest brine
          near the bottom of the sea, we still seem to want some agent, for

              · Diet. d'Hist. Nat., art. Eaux.  + Principles of Geology, vol. i. p. 297.

              \ Sen a curious paper on the increasing strength of a hrinc well in propor
          tion to its depth, in the Phil. Magazine, vol. iv. p. 91.

          -v
REPORT ON MINERAL AND THERMAL WATERS.               75

bringing about a separation of its solid contents, from a fluid so
far removed from saturation, as the water of our present seas is
found to be.
Now a submarine volcano, or any other independent cause,
producing a high temperature in any part of the bed of the
ocean, might supply this desideratum ; it would separate the
salt from that portion of the water which came most within its
immediate influence, converting the fluid into vapour, which, in
a highly compressed condition, we may imagine to be interposed
between the bed of salt in the act of forming, and the body of the

superincumbent ocean.
That volcanic action may have had some share in the forma
tion of beds of salt, is no new idea, and is immediately suggested
by the almost constant association, of sulphuric salts, and espe
cially of gypsum, with the former.
   Thus Von Buch*, remarking on the connexion of rock-salt
and brine springs with anhydrous gypsum at Bex in Switzer
land, attributes them both to direct sublimation from the inte
rior of the earth, the common salt being accompanied by sul
phuretted hydrogen, which, by its gradual conversion into sul
phuric acid, had given rise to the formation of sulphate of lime.
That rock-salt is sometimes sublimed from the bowels of the

earth we know by an examination of volcanos ; and where
common salt is found abundantly in thermal springs which are
of volcanic origin, and issue from primary rocks, as is the case
with that of St. Nectaire in Auvergne, and possibly that of
Wiesbaden in Nassau, it seems but reasonable to attribute its

occurrence to a similar cause.

Proustf even has stated, that the salt mine of Burgos in Spain
lies in the crater of an extinct volcano ; and though he may pos
sibly be mistaken as to this exact point, still such a notion would
hardly have arisen, had not the beds been in a manner surrounded
by volcanic products.
   Without, however, proposing so bold an hypothesis as that of
sublimation, to account for the production of salt beds in general,
we may perhaps see reason to suppose, that volcanic heat has in
many cases caused their deposition, and that the sulphates which
accompany them have arisen from the sulphuretted hydrogen,
which is at the present day an ordinary effect of volcanic pro

cesses.                                  I have attempted to

   In my memoir on the Lake AmsanctusJ,
trace the connexion, between the operations of volcauos, the

* Pog^endorfl's Annalen, 1835.           T Journal dc Physique.
% Published by the Ashmolcan Society, Oxford 1836.
          76 SIXTH REPORT -- 1836.
          emanations of carbonic acid, and the formation of beds of rock-
          salt ; on the present occasion it may be sufficient to quote the
          following brief summary of the points therein insisted on.

          Volcanos give out                    Sulphuretted hydrogen, sal am
                                                  moniac, boracic acid, muri
          And cause                                atic acid, steam ;

          Moffettes, connected geogra         Deposits of sulphur, of sulphu
              phically with volcanos now          ric salts, of muriatic salts,
              in action or extinct, give out      &c.

          And cause                           The same principles;
                                              Deposits of sulphur and of sul
          Many tertiary clays, some of
              which are connected in a            phuric salts.
             geographical sense with vol
              canos                           Contain beds of sulphur, of
                                                 earthy sulphates, and of com
          Most salt formations are asso
             ciated with                          mon salt.

          Some with                           Beds of gypsum.
          Others with                         Sulphur.
                                              Sal ammoniac.

Works on    I shall now conclude, by enumerating a few of the newer works
mineral
waters    on mineral and thermal waters that appear to afford the most
          original and important information on the subject, considered in
          a scientific point of view.

             On English medicinal springs, Dr. Scudamore* has published
          a good practical treatise, and with the assistance of Mr. Garden,
          has undertaken to give an analysis of the more important ones
          which this country possesses. His work, however, is more
          adapted for practical physicians than for men of science, as he
          has limited himself exclusively to those mineral waters which

          already possess a reputation as medicinal agents.

             Professor Angladaf of Montpellier has published a very de
          tailed and elaborate description of the thermal springs of the
          Eastern Pyrenees, in which he has investigated in particular, the

             · Treatise on the Composition and Medical Properties of the Mineral Waters
          of Buxton, &c. Second Edition. London, 1833.

             + Me'moircs pour servir a I'liistoire ge'n/rale des Eaux min&ahs sulfureuses,
          2 vols. 1827 ; and Traite des Eaux minerales d'-s Pyrenees Orientates, 2 vols.

          1833.
REPORT ON MINERAL AND THERMAL WATERS.                                                                  77

condition in which the sulphureous principle of these waters
exists, and that peculiar organic matter which is associated with
the waters.

  IHaving already commented upon these points, I need only

further remark, that consider the work in general a most va
luable addition to our knowledge.

   M. Longchamp, who was expressly engaged by the late French
Government to examine the mineral waters of that country, has
completed his report on those of Vichy*, which appears to be
drawn up with considerable care, but has been arrested in the
further prosecution of the design by the  o"vAerntnhruoawireof                                         Bour
bon dynasty. In a little work, entitled                                                           the
                                                                                                  des  Eaux

Min&rales" for 1831, he has given a sketch of the principal
springs of the Pyrenees and of others in France, which may be
consulted to advantage.
The work of Alibertf, though it bear9 the name of a distin
guished medical writer, is evidently designed as a popular com
                         hardly comes under review
pendium, and therefore                                                                 on         the pre
sent occasion ; nor am   I aware of any other work                                     of         scientific

interest on this subject, that has recently appeared in the French

language.

   In Germany works on mineral waters abound ; but perhaps
the most important is one published by Professor Bischof % of
Bonn in 1826, relative to the mineral springs of the Rhine
province and others of similar constitution, replete with valuable
information, and    siImominpecourtorarfendtthogefenlbaeetritanelgr,vmiIeywhssae.vlef
                                                                                       all along   been con
  In criticising                                                                       in error;  nor should

scious of the risk
I, perhaps, have been tempted to question them, had it not ap
peared to me, that inferences deduced from one particular class
of mineral waters, ought to undergo the test of a severe scrutiny,
before we permitted ourselves to apply them to the springs of
other and distant regions.
Brandes §, with the assistance of Kruger, has published a very
elaborate account of the waters of Pyrmont, and more recently
a still larger work on those of Meinberg||, containing, not only
a detailed description of the spring, but also of the topography,
antiquities, and natural history of the neighbourhood.
But it would be endless to enumerate the various works on
particular mineral waters, which have issued from the German

· Analyse des Eaux Minirales de Vicky, 1825.                                                      Bonn, 1826.
+ Precu Historigue sur Us Eaux Minerales. 1826.
X JHeVulkanUchenMineralquellenDeutschlandsundPi-anhreiclis.
§ Beschreibung der Mineralguellen xu Pyrmont. 1826.
|| Mineralguellen xu Meinberg. Lemgo, 1832.
78 SIXTH REPORT -- 1836.

press, and to which this general character seems to apply, that,
although more frequently replete with mystical and absurd hy
potheses, than works of the same class in England, they display
in general greater research and a richer fund of scientific infor

mation.        works, I may mention  that  of Scherer * on  the  mi

   Of general
neral waters of the Russian empire, which testify to this im
portant fact, that there are neither thermal nor acidulated
springs in any part of that vast tract, till we approach the
mountains of the Caucasus and Oural, or the volcanos of Kam-

echatka.

  Professor Schuster t of the University of Pesth has lately

edited the elaborate work of Kitaibel on the Mineral Waters of
Hungary, which will be found to contain a very detailed, and
probably authentic, account of their properties.

   But to the general reader the necessity of consulting these
local authorities will soon be superseded, by the appearance of
the treatise of Dr. Osann of Berlin X, of which the two first

volumes have been already published.
   The first of these includes, a very complete sketch of the ge

neral views, entertained, with respect to the nature and constitu
tion of mineral and thermal springs, and a catalogue rai&onne'
of those best known, classified under their respective heads.

   The second volume is occupied by a detailed description, of
those of Germany, and some other contiguous countries, with
copious references to original sources of information.

   The whole appears to be compiled with great care and re
search, and promises, when finished, to be the most complete
work extant on the subject.

   Since the appearance of the first volume of Dr. Osann's work,
Dr. Gairdner of Edinburgh has brought out a very compact,
and useful Manual, in the English language, on the same sub
ject^ A large portion of its contents indeed are evidently ex
tracted from Osann ; nor does it appear, that the author has
drawn much from any stores of his own in the facts stated by
him.

    Nevertheless the multitude of details brought together, and

Ijudiciously arranged in this little volume, ought to secure it a

place in every scientific library ; and the best proof can fur-

  t J.· Versuch der Heilquellen des Russischen Reich*. St. Petersburg, 1820.
       Pauli Kitaibel Hydrographica Hungaria, edidit Schuster, Pesth, 1829.
   t Darstellung der bekannten Heilquellen Europa's. Berlin, vol. i. 1829, vol. ii.

1832.

   § Essay on the Natural History, Sfc. of Mineral and Thermal Springs. Edin
burgh, 1832.
              REPORT ON MINERAL AND THERMAL WATERS.                     71)

nish of my own opinion of its merits is, that I conceived it to
Ihave superseded the demand for a distinct work on the subject,
which         haIdhfaovre  several previous    years been preparing.
    Indeed                  been induced     in some measure to modify  the

nature of this Report in consequence, having endeavoured to be
most full on those points, which had been passed over by Dr.
Gairdner, and in other instances supplying rather a comment
upon the facts he had collected, than a mere recapitulation of
their substance.

                           Appendix to Page 42.

waWtehrse,nI  mentioning the reported presence of oxygen   in thermal
              ought to have added, that Fode're', Voyages  aux Alpes
maritimes, states, that this gas was extracted, by boiling, from
the water of Roccabigliera in Piedmont, in such quantities, and
of such purity, as led him to believe, that a portion of deutoxidc
of hydrogen must have been present to occasion it. But so
extraordinary a fact in the history of thermal waters, as this
would be, requires further confirmation.
               so SIXTH REPORT -- 18.1(5.

                                                                                                           Catalogue

          Name of the place                                              u Name of the                     evNoulvmedberino3f4cubboiucr
          where the spring                                                          hottest spring and
                                                         Geographical    Its excess of
                   ex-curs.   Geological position.          position.    temperature above

                                                                         that of the locality.             Water.

        Bath.                 New red sandstone .        Somersetshire   King's Bath    66 King's                  King's
                                                                         Hot Well              Bath                   Ball
So'                                                                      St. Anne's                        28,339
                                                                         Bath Spring                                  2

            Bristol           Carboniferous limestone Gloucestersh.      Spa Well       25

5-J n Buxton                  in a valley of disruption  Derbyshire ...                 3.1 St. Anne's SL Ann

                              Ditto                                                                        13,500

<§                                                                                                                 41,1
-eo'-g
          Bakewell            Ditto                      Ditto                          13

          Stony Middleton Ditto                          Ditto                          14

       Taafe'sWell...         Coal strata                Near Cardiff,                  21 18-0

~c                                                       S.Wales

        Mallow                Carboniferous limestone CountyofCork,                     23

                                                         Ireland

          Bertrich      ,     Connected with extinct Near Treves,                                      40  7240
                                                                         Kaiserquelle 85.5
                              volcanos                   Eyfel

          Aix la Chapelle     . At the junction of clay Lower Rhine

                              slate, and carboniferous Province

-r "> Borset                  limestone

                              Ditto                      Ditto .         Muhlenbend 121-5

*J.-OJ"   Ems        , Clay slate                        Nassau .        Rondeel        8 1 12,400

     -s

I"So. 2.  Wiesbaden           Chlorite slate             Ditto .         Kochbrunnen 108 84,092

S    c    Schlangenbad     .  Clay slate                 Ditto .         Schachtbrunnen                    21,328
     g    Soden               Ditto
a».                                                      NearFrankfort                                 27
                                                            on the Main  Gemeindebrunnen
          Kreutznach ...... Felspar porphyry ...
                                                         Lower Rhine                                   20
                                                            Province     Miinster am Stein

                                                                                                       36

   * N.B. In this estimate of mean temperature, no allowance is made for height. It is evident, therefore,

Buxton, Bakewell, &c.

  t Where the name of the spring is not given, the number is understood to indicate the amount evolved

   X N.B. Where not otherwise specified, the spring alluded to in this and the next column is assumed to

          -.
     HBPOUT O.N MINERAL AND THKHMAL WATiSHS.                                                                    HI

Thermal Springs.

     s evolved & their relative           Gaseous contents.        Total amount of              Solid contents.      According
        lions one to the other.        In a pint of the water.   ingredients in a pint  Nature of the more abundant        to
                            According                             of the water of the
                                   to                            spring most strongly        and of the more active
                                                                                               ingredients present.
                                                                     impregnated^.

                                                           CIn.                   Grs.
                                                           l-2 King's Bath
     96-5 Daubeny , Carbonic acid                                                    15 Mur. lime and magnesia       Phillips.
                                                                                             iron, (Iodine, Cuff.')

     92. Ditto ...                     Carbonic acid       8'750 Hot Well          5-95 Sulph. soda, mur. of lime Carrick.
     100. Pearson                      Common air                                 1*875 Mur. magn. and of soda .. Scudamore.
     100. Daubeny                      Carbonic acid       0*375
                                       Azote               0187 St. Anne'a           3-5 Sulph. of lime, mur. of soda Daubeny.
                                                           0-580

                                                                     Bath Spring

     100. Ditto ...                                              Warm Spring      2 0 Sulph. of soda and mag., Ditto.
     96-5 Ditto ..                                                                         mur. lime

                                                                                  12 Sulphate of magnesia ... Ditto.

     935 Ditto ...                                               Spa Well         0-3 Carbonate of lime              Ditto.

                                       Carb. acid, with a trace                   IS -2 Carb. and sulph. of soda; Funke.
                                                                                        Lithia, potass
                                       of sulph. hyd.

     69-5 Monheim .                    Sulphuretted hydro Kaiserquelle 31-05 Mur., carb., and sulph., Monheim.

                                       gen soda ; Sulphuret ofsodium,
                                                                                        phosph. soda
                                                           7-1 Muhlenbend 34-0 Mur., carb., and sulph of] Ditto.
IS.  80. Daubeny . Carbonic acid                                                        soda ; Lithia, strontian,

                                       Nitrogen            19-0

m. 0 Ditto .... Carbonic acid                                                           fluoric acid
                                                                 Kesselbrunnen 28-9 Carb., mur., and sulph., Kastner and
                                                                                        soda; Strontian, bart/tes, Struve.

                                                                                        phosph. and fluoric acids.
     27. Ditto .... Ditto                                        Kochbrunnen 57-59 Mur. of soda, lime, and po Ditto.

                                                                                        tass ; Bromine, manga

                                                                                        nese, and fluoric acid
                                       Carbonic acid with a Schachtbrunn 6-0 Carb. of soda, muriate of Fenner.

                                          little nitrogen        Saltzquelle unter          soda
                                       Carbonic acid
                                                                                        Mur. of soda ; Potass, bro Sch Wein

                                                                 derBrucke 119-8 mine                                berg.
                                                                 Theodorshall 87-9 Mur. of soda, lime, and Prieger.

                                                                                        magnesia; Potass, alu-

                                                                                        mine, phosphoric acid

thai a deduction must be made in all cases where the spring is placed above the level of the sea, as at

from all the thermal springs belonging to the locality,
vol. --be the :am), as that of which the composition is given.
     v. 1836.                                                    g
                                      SIXTH KEPORT-- 1836.

                                                                                         Catalogue of Therr:

          Name of the place                                               ^s7i         Name of the       Number   inofSc4uhboi *4
          where the spring                                                        hottest ipring and     evolved
                                                                          Si
                  occurs.      Geological position.        Geographical                ita excess of
                                                              position.   II      temperature above
                                                                                  that of the locality.                   «

          Wolkenstein ... Mica slate                 Saxony..                                      33-5

          Wiesenbad .... Ditto                       Ditto ..                                      20-0

          Carlsbad           Granite, in a valley of Bohemia                      Sprudel         117-0 Sprudel
                                disruption                                                                    111,715

i Bilin                      Gneiss                  Ditto ..                                      16-0 12,288
  # "1

S S Toplitz                  Volcanic porphyry ... Ditto ..                       Hauptquelle 71-0       77,250
                                                                                                         12,960
%  S-                        At the foot of a granitic Silesia ..                 Trinkquelle     47.
      Warmbrunn....
.s
                               chain

          Landeck            Gneiss                  Ditto ..                     Old Bath        35-5

3 « Wildbad                  Granite                 Wirtemburg.,                 13 Hauptquelle  47

6D ; Baden-baden . Ditto                             Duchy of Ba                  Ditto     96-4 F.f 12,033
                                                        den
Pi Baden-weiler . Ditto                                                                            30-5
fe Baden9.'                  Jura limestone          Ditto         ,
    S 'S                                                                      F.                  68-5 Haupt
o                                                    Austria                                                quelle
        Gastrin              Granite                                                                           40,950
                                                     Saltzburg Alps
is                                                                                                66-5 4principal
                                                                                                            springs
                                                                                                             100,080

* This, however, far above the mark with reference to the majority of springs enumerated, in consequcn
                        is

f  Within the same range of latitude as the above occur the following thermal springs, few of whi

as stated below, viz,
           In Moravia.                                   In Styria. tl                            In Carijithia.
                         0            Doppelbad, near Gratz 32-75                                                      0
Uttersdorff             37-25         Romerbad, near Cilli ... 48-00              Tbplitza                             46-51
Toplitz                 12-00
                                                                                  Montfalcone, near Trieste . 50-01
                                      Neuhaus, near Cilli
                                                                   46-25                          In the Tyrol

                                                                                  On the Brenner                       23-0

t  Professor Forbes, Philosophical Transactions, part ii., 1836.
                        REPORT ON MINERAL AND THERMAL WATERS.                                    83

(Continued.)

 1and their relative        Gaseous contents.       Total amount of            Solid contents.         According
l one to the other.      In a pint of the water.  ingredients in a pint  Nature of the more abundant         to
                                                   of the water of the
I According                                       spring most strongly       and of the more active
                     to                                                         ingredii-nts present.
                                                       impregnated.

                                          C.In              Grs.
                                                           1-8-15 Carbonate of soda
Daubeny ... Carbonic acid                                                                              Kuhn.

Ditto                    Ditto                             4-03 Carb., sulph., and mur., of Lampadius.
                         Ditto
                                          11-85                          soda
                         Ditto            33-58
                                                           49-6 Sulph. and carb. of soda ; Berzelius.
                         Ditto            l-l                          Strontian, manganese, flu
                                                                       oric and phosph. acids
Daubeny .                Nitrogen         0-735
Ditto ....                                                 39-2 Carb., sulph., and muriate Steinniann.
                         Sulph. hyd. 6.6 to 8.0                      of soda ; Lithia, potass,

                         Carbonic acid 100                               and manganese, phosph
                                                                      acid

                                                           15-6 Carb. and sulph. of soda; Ambrozzi.
                                                                       Phosph. acid (Berzelius)

                                                           4-77 Sulph. and carb. of soda Tschortner.
                                                                      Carb. of ammonia

                                                           2-62 Sulph., and mur., of soda.

                         Sulph. hyd.      4-33

0 Oil 91-16 Weiss        Carbonic acid    12-00            3-59 Mur., carb., and sulph., of Sigwort and
                                          79*25
                         Nitrogen                                        soda                          Weiss.
                                            8-25
                         Oxygen
                         Carbonic acid                     26-331 Mur. of soda, and of lime, Otto and

                                                                         sulph. of lime, silica        Wolf.

                         Ditto                             1-7 Chiefly carb. of lime ... Schmidt.

                         Sulph. hyd.      3-33               1-076 Sulph., lime and magnesia Schcnk.
                         Carbonic acid    1-77
                                                           2-7182 Sulph. of soda, mur. of so Hiinefeld.
                         Carbonic acid                                       da, and potass

ttir high elevation.
(been sufficiently examined, but which exceed the assumed mean temperature (51°) of the climate,

           In Croatia.   0                    In Hungary.  0                             In Hungary.          0
                        82-25   Ofen, or Bada              93-5          Szalathny                             9-8
6-
                        62-     Trencsin                   53-0          Lucska                        26-0
                        53-
                                Postheny, near Presburg... 9575          Glasshiitte, near Schumnitz 53-0
                        73-25
                                Ribar, near Neusohl        27-80         Eisenbach, near ditto         53-0
                        21-25
                                Altsohl, near ditto        32-75         Parad, near Erlau             35*0

                                Stuben, near Kremnitz ... 59*75          Szobranez, near Unghoar . 19-25

                                Gran                       139           Budos, near Fiinfkirchen... 86*75

                                                  G2
                     84 SIXTH REPORT -- 1836.

                                                                                    Catalogue of The^r,

                     Name of the place                                                 Name of the                   Number              inofSctabll
                      where the spring                                             hottest spring and                evolved

                             occurs.    Geological position.      Geographical          its excesa of
                                                                      position     temperature above
                                                                                   that of the locality.
                                                                              .                                                          Water.       <
                                                                                                                                      2
                     St. Airland        Slate covering the coal Near Valenci                                     28

                     Bourbonne               formation            ennes, Dep.      La Fontaine 80                                        springs
                         Bains                                    du Nord                                                                   2,916
                                   lea Granite, covered by Jura
                     Luxcuil                 limestone               Nr. Chau                                                               8,640

      4              Plombieres                                      mont,Dep.                                                               9,000
                     Bains ...                                         Haute
           '/ E '--  Bagnoles
    -.                                                            Marne

H                                       Granite, covered with     Near Ve-         Grand Bain 75-5

   J                                    sandstone                 seul,Dep.
                                                                  de Haute

                                        Granite                     Saone          13 Ditto     95-75

                                                                  Near Epi-
                                                                    nal, Dep.

                                        Ditto                       dc Vosges      Grosse Source 71
                                                                  Near ditto,                                    28

                                                                   ditto

                                        Ditto                     Near Alencon,
                                                                      Dep. d'Orne

                     Bourbonne l'Ar- Slate formation              NearMou-         Grand Puits      69 Grand
                        chambault                                  lins, Dep       Ecures                 Puits
                                                                   l'Allier                                  86,400
                     Bourbon Lancy. Ditto
                                                                  Near ditto,                       84 10,800
                                                                   ditto
j               H Vichy                 Coal formation, covering                   BassindesBains5                                       P.ofiu ....
     32                                    granite                Near Gan-
          6s°&.                                                                    PuiUdeCesar89-5                                       19,800
                                        Sandstone and coal, rest   nat, Dep,
            Mc oftco Neris                 ing on granite          del'AIlier      111 Bains de Cesar                                    12,780 Boil
                                                                  Nr. Mont                                 52 F.                                     Ce
              .                         Trachyte                   lucon,

                    Mont Dor                                       Dep. de
            o                                                      l'Allier
                                                                  NearCler
                     Bourboule          Ditto                     moot, Dep.       28 65 F.
                                                                   de Puy dc
                                                                   Dome

                                                                  Ditto ...

                     St. Ncctaire       Ditto                     Ditto.           Gros Bouillon
                                                                                                           45-75
                     Chaudes Aigues Gneiss                        Nr. Auril-                                                             307,188 No.
                                                                   lac, Dep.       Par 118-0
                                                                   de Cantal

                                                                                   * The mark (*) indicates that the
         SEPORT ON MINERAL AND THERMAL WATERS.                                                       83

kgs. (Continued.)

Ted and their relative         Gaseous contents.        Total amount of           Solid contents.         According
  i one to the other.                                ingredients in a pint  Nature of the more abundant         to
              According     In a pint of the water.   of the water of the
                        to                           spring most strongly       and of the more active
                                                                                   ingredients present.
                                                          impregnated.

                               Sulphuretted hyd.                 Grs.
                                                                       Sulphuret of sodium, sul
100 Longchamp.                                                              phate of soda, and mag
77"*°!Athenas
                                                                              nesia

                                                                   52 Muriates of soda and lime, Athenas.
                                                                          sulphates of lime and
                                                                            magnesia

                                                                            Muriates and sulphs.of soda,
                                                                               lime, and magnesia

         Longchamp.                                                         Muriates and sulphs.of soda, Vauquelin.
                                                                               magnesia, and lime

                                                                            Muriates of soda, lime, and

                                                                                magnesia.
                                                                            Muriates of soda, magnesia,

                                                                                and lime.

         Longchamp. Carbonic acid                                           Mur. soda, sulph. soda.

·>·····                     Ditto                                13-478 Mur. of soda and potass, Puvis.

                                                                            sulph. soda and lime
                                                     Source des Celes- Carb., mur., and sulph. of Longchamp.
         Longchamp. Ditto

                                                     tins        62. soda

100 Ditto ...                                                               Carb., mur., and sulph. of
                                                                                soda.

m 9-85 Daubeny ... Carbonic acid                     Source de la Made- Carb., mur., and sulph. of Bertrand.
                                                     laine
                                                                 11 '4 soda

                              Ditto                  Source des Fievres Muriate of soda.
                              Ditto
         Daubeny ,                                   2nd Spring  18-2

                                                                 500 Carb., sulph., and mur. of Bouillayand

                                                                            soda                          Henr

                                                     Source de Par 14'5 Carb. and mur. of soda, Clievallier.

                                                                            magnesia, lime, and ox :

                                                                            ide of iron.

u. bat that its proportion is unknown.
           80                                                                SIXTH REPORT -- 1836.

           Name or the place                                                                                    Catalogue of Ther
            where (he spring
                                                                                        Geographical   U Name of the                     eNvuomlvebderinof2c4uht
a occurs.                                                                                   position.             hottest spring and
                                                             Geological position.                      its excess of
                                                                                                       temperature above
                                                                                                       that of the locality.

             Chateau-neuf                                    Volcanic rocks             Near an        Grand Bains 4575
                               J1                                                         nul, Dcp.G
       Evaux                                  a              Granite                      dePuy de                            1Puits de Cesar
Cm                                                          .                             Dome                                 81-75
                                                                                                                                                          3
             Saint Laurent ,                                 Tertiary limestone, co     NearNeris,                                   GG
                                                                vering granite, with
?' 52  B                                                        volcanic rocks near       Dep. de
       5                                                                                  Creuse
                                                             Ditto                      Near Au
             Bagnoles .                                                                                                              57                      6,192
                                                                                          benas,
g Digne ....                                                 Limestone in inclined                     Bassin de l'Etnvc
                                                                strata                  Dep.d'Ar-
                                                                                                                               59.25
                                                                                          deche
                                                                                        Nr.Mende,

                                                                                          Dep. de
                                                                                          Lozere

                                                                                        Dep. des

                                                                                          Basses

                                                                                         Alpes

             Greoulx                                         Limestone in inclined      Dep. des                41-75
             Aix                                                strata                   Hautes
             Balaruc
                                                             Jura limestone, disloca     Alpes         Sextius  . 39-0
                                                                ted and inclined
                                                                                        Dep* des
                                                                                         Bouches

                                                                                        du Rhone
                                                             Jura limestone, near the Nr. Cette, Dep.
                                                             volcano of Agde                           Varying from 66
                                                                                        d'Herault          to 52

J Sylvanes                                                   Granite                    Near St,                      4S
W
                                                                                          Affrique:
*° Rennes..                                                  Sandstone, breccia, and      Dep. de      Bainfut  53-0
                                                                                         l'Aveyron
                                                             limestone, belonging
                                                                                        Near Li
                                                             to the coal formation,
                                                                                          minis,
                                                             highly inclined
                                                                                          Depart
ft.          Campagne                                        Ditto                       d'Aude                 21-5
                                                                                        Ditto                   21-5
  S          St. Paul de Fe From                                      fault in lime
                                                                                        Near Can
         ££  nouilhades                                      stone, covering slate
                                                                                         dies, Dep.
             Aries                                           Granite near its junction   d'Aude
                                                                with limestone
                                                                                                       Petit Escaldadou                                      36,357

                                                                                                                    85- 3F

             Preste    .. . .                                Granite                                   Source d'Apollon                                      10,888
                                                                                                                           710
E            Vernet                                          Junction of granite with
                                                                stratified rocks                       17 Source interieur 2,455,668
             Molitz
                                                             Granite                                            72-2
             Thuez
                                                             Granite and serpentine .                        Grande Source 40                                springs
             St. Thomas                                                                                27 Source du Torrent                                     1,170
             Canavilles                                         Mica slate, resting on
                                                                a quartzose granite                       Real  111-5
                                                                                                       No.       75

                                                                                                                69-5
                                        REPORT ON MINERAL AND THERMAL WATERS.                                             87

         (Continued.)

^fMtfRtaJtTfiendnanannodInthfehipr  relative  Gaseous  contents.                                     Solid content*.
                                    other.    .
II* io According                              __

                                    to        In a pint of the water.           Total amount or      Nature of the more abundant          According
                                                                             ingredients in ft pint      and of the more active                 to
H° 5                                                                         of the water of the            ingredients present.
                                                                             spring most strongly

                                                                                  impregnated.

                                                                      C.In.  Grs.
                                              Carbonic acid.

;

   - Carb., sulph., and mur. oi
                                                                                                                          soda.

                                                                                                     Carb., mur., and sulph. ol
                                                                                                                          soda.

                                                                                                             Mur. of magnesia and sulph.
                                                                                                                 of lime.

. 14-3 Sulphate of magnesia and
                                                                                                   lime, mur. of soda.

   ----                                       Carbonic acid, sulph.          25-32 Mur. of soda and magnesia.
                                                 hydrogen
                                                                                 1-5 Carb. of magnesia and lime, Robert.
                                              Carbonic acid       6-6                   sulph. of lime

                                                                                     Mur. of soda and magnesia, Figueir.
                                                                                          and lime, carb. of lime

                                                                                     Mur. and sulph. of soda
                                                                                          and magnesia.

                                                                              12-0 Oxide of iron.

   ...... Anglada ... Nitrogen and oxygen                                    2-0 Sulphuret of sodium, soda, Anglada.

                    Ditto                                                                            caustic and combined
            ."o
                                                                                                     with sulphuric acid
                    Ditto
                    Ditto                                                    0-978                                                        Ditto.

                                                                             1-311                                                        Ditto.

                                                                             1-326                                                        Ditto.

                                                                             0-984                                                        Ditto.
      88 SIXTH REPORT -- 1836.
                                                                     Catalogue of Thermal

                                                                         5%     Name of the                          Number of cubic feet
                                                                             hottest spring and                    I evolved in 34 hours ol
i Name of the place                                       Geographical
           where the spring  Geological position.             position.      ita excess of
                   occurs.                                                   temperature above
                                                                             that of the locality.

     Sorede ..               From granitic pebbles             1*            Font Agre           9

     Reynez                  Mica slate                   I«   1 'S?         Beu Calde 23-75
                                                               Jf
     Enn...                  Mica slate, resting on a       c      13
                                saccharoid limestone
     Thuez                                                         <
                             Junction of granite with
     Escaldas                    limestone along a line                                     62
                                of fissure
                                                            «m                 Source d'Exhalade
                             Granite near its contact                                                          71
                                with slate                                                                         28,609     53.
                                                                         ·17 Buvette 47-1 F

     Dorres ,                Like Escaldas ,                             48 44-4 F.                                           ....
     Los ....
                                                                   >         Source Gervais
                                                                                                     24-25
Z Ax
                             At the boundary line of      DepTd'Ar 25 Source des Canons
                                granite and slate
                                                          riege,near                    108-0

     Ussat                                                Tarascon
     Lez ..
                             Limestone, with granite      Ditto, ditto                  400                        18,000
                                contiguous
                                                          Valley of          Source A 5-4 F.
                             Granite

          Bagneres de Lu     Granite near its junction    Dep. de 20 Grotte superieur
               chon             with clay-slate                                         79-1 F
                                                          HauteGa-
iS 3° %a. Encausse .         Limestone
                                                          ronne                         77-75

                                                          Dep. de                           6-0
                                                           HauteGa

is"                                                         ronne, nr.
                                                            St. Gau-

     Bagneres de Bi- Limestone resting                      dens                        59-0 F.

S§ gorre                     clay-slate,with patches      Dep. des 20 Dauphin
                             of granite near it             Hautes

     Capvern                 Limestone                      Pyrenees

                                                          Dep. des                          15
                                                           Hautes

                                                          Pyrenees,
                                                          near Ba

                                                          gneres de

y.                           Clay-slates, with horn        Bigorre           Grande Douche
                                blende ; granite not      Dep. des                             51-9 F.
       Barege ....              far distant
        St.Sauveur                                         Hautes
        Cauterets..,         Slaty limestone, with
                                hornblende slates ad       Pyrenees          La Houtalade
                                                          Ditto                                  8-5 F,
                                jacent ; granite not far
                                 distant                  Ditto .            Source des CEufs Source de Source d-
                                                                                        70-1 F. Pauzc                         Pauze
                             Clay-slate, with horn                                                                 alone
                                blende in nearly ver                                                                          61-
                                tical beds,near the con                                                            1,326

                                 tact with granite                                                                 All the

                                                                                                                   springs
                                                                                                                      12,240
                      REPORT ON MINERAL AND THERMAL WATERS.                                89

Sprjtgs. (Continued.)

iajesevoked and their relative ! Gaseous contents.                               Solid contents.
pmperuonaone to the other. 1.                                              Nature of the more abundant

           According  In a pint of the water.          Total amount of         and of the more active    According
o to                                                Ingredients in a pint          ingredients present.        to

                                                     of the w.Tterofthe
                                                    spring most strongly

                                                          impregnated.

                                                                  Grs

IN ;.....  Anglada .. Carbonic acid                               6-8 Carb., sulph., and mur. of Anglada.
  0j 0     Ditto
  0        Ditto                                                              soda ; oxide of iron
                                                                           Sulph. of lime and soda, Ditto.

                                                                              mur. of soda

                                                    Very small..           Ditto                         Ditto.

0 0 Ditto                                                                  Ditto                         Ditto.

           100 Ditto                                              102 Hydrosulphuret of soda, Ditto.

           100 Ditto                                                       with soda and potass,
           100 Ditto                                                       caustic 1 sulph. of soda .'
                                                                                                         Ditto.
                                                                           Ditto

                                                                           Ditto                         Ditto.

                                                                           Hydrosulphuret of sodium,
                                                                               caustic soda.

                                                                           Sulph. and mur. of mag.

                      Carbonic acid                               2-2 Sulphuret of sodium, carb.,
                                                                          sulphate, mur. of soda.

                                                                       Sulph. of lime, magnesia,
                                                                           and soda.

                      Ditto                         Source de la Reine Sulph. of lime, magnesia, Gaudcrex.
                      Ditto                                             1-37 and soda, mur. of mag

                                                                           nesia and soda

                                                                  8-0 Sulph. of lime and mag.            Save.

0 100 Longchamp                                     Le Pre        2-:i Sulphuret of sodium, caus
      100 Longchamp.                                                      tic soda, sulph. of soda.

                                                                  11 Ditto.

                                                                  29
                   90                           SIXTH REPORT -- 1836.

                Name of the place                                                         Catalogue of Thermal
                where the spring
                                                                                ii Name of the                    Number of cubic ftet
                        occurs.                                                            hottest spring and     evolved in 24 hours oi

                                   Geological position.         Geographical             its excess of
                                                                   position.        temperature above

                                                                                    that of the locality.         Water.               Gas.

                Eaux Bonnes .      In a valley of disruption,   Dep. des        2<; Source Vieille 32-0
                                      from highly inclined        Basses                                 31-4 F.
                                      beds of limestone, near    Pyrenees

W£                                    its contact with granite  Ditto .         22 Clot         346 F.            3,924
                                   In a valley of disruption,
        Eaux Chaudes .
                                      at the junction of gra
I J.o-to  cd-.  Cambo                 nite, with inclined beds  Ditto .                              10
                                      of limestone
«>j  .    £                        Clay-slate in inclined       Dep. d                          82-25
?                                                                Landes                             44.
                                      strata, resting on gra                                         25
so°*^     2     Dax        ....       nite                      Dep. de
                Barboutan                                        Gers
"S        --*                      Compact limestone, with
O                                     trap near it              Ditto ...
          a3
                                   Tertiary?

                Castera-vivant . Tertiary ?.

                                   LDisrupted beds of lime Canton
             I'feft'ers.,                                               of St.  23  From  50-5  to 51-OVery vana-
                                                                                                48-0 P1 ·bilnc.gsuremamteesrt
          Vals.                    stone                        Gall

    til                                                                                                           il=ea1s2tl).1i2nl>)
           Weissenburg                                                                                            winter

k w c Loueche                      Clay slate and compact Valley of Lug-                                II

  2 a Baden                        limestone                    nitz, canton

  S° 1                                                          of Grisons
           Schinznach
                                                                Canton   of 27                  32-5 F
           Yverdun
                                                                Berne

                                   Disrupted beds of lime Canton of Va- 47                      74-1 F.

                                   stone, with granite not lais

                                   far distant

                                                                Canton of Ar- 10 St Verene 78-0

                                                                gau

                                                                Ditto           10 39-25
                                                                                      varying a degree
                                                                Canton ofNeu-             or so
                                                                   chatel
                                                                                13 27
                REPORT ON MINERAL AND THERMAL WATERS.                                                             91

   Springs. (Continued.)

   Gaso frolved and their relative  Gaseous contents.                                            Solid contents.
    proportions one to the other.

'V ogMBFtC  Ig  According           In a pint of the water.                 Total amount of      Nature of the more abundant  According
                      to                                                  ingredients in a pint      and of the more active         to
i                                                                         of the water of the           ingredients present.
                                                                          spring most strongly

                                                                               impregnated.

                                                   C.In.                    Grs.
                                                                          0-949 Sulphuret of sodium, caus
i
                                                                                      tic soda, sulph. of lime.

                                                                          6-000 Sulph. of magnesia, mur. of Poumler.
                                                                                       soda and magnesia

                                                                          1-5 Sulph. and mur. of mag.

                                                 Sulphuretted hyd.                Sulph. of soda and mur. of
                                                 Ditto                                 lime.

   *~"                                                                     2-61 Sulphate of soda and mag Capeller.
                                                                                      nesia, muriate of soda
   0 0 100 Ure                      Ditto                                              and magnesia

                                    Ditto                           2*56    17-3 Sulph. of lime and soda, Ditto.
                                                                                       carbonate of lime
                                    Sulphuretted hyd.
                                                                           211 Sulphates of lime, soda, and Brunner.
                                    Ditto                           6*0                magnesia
                                    Carbonic acid                   2'3
                                                                          2147 Sulphate of lime, magnesia, MorelL
                                                                                       and soda

                                                                          32-29 Sulph. of lime, muriate ol Bauhoff.
                                                                                     soda and mag., sulph. of

                                                                                          soda
                                                                           27-0 Sulphate of lime and soda, Ditto.

                                                                                     mur. of soda and mag.,
                                                                                     oxide of iron
                                                                          0-983 Muriate of soda, sulph. of MorelL
                                                                                     lime, carb. of soda
                         92                    SIXTH RKPORT 1836.

                                                                                          Catalogue of Thermal

>.         Name of the place                                                        Ui ·      Name of the              Number of cubic feet
           where the spring                                                                hottest spring and          evolved in 34 hours of
0a59                                                                  Geographical  -®
                   occurs.                  Geological position.         position.            its excess of
                                                                                          temjieraturc aboTe
                                                                                          that of the locality.        Water.  Gas.

           St. Gervais                                            Near Sallenche 17       56-50                        1,440                   J

o*--'                                   Gritty dark-coloured      Near Worms,       50 Varies from 68 to
 o                                                                   in the can                 46
                                            sandstone                ton of Valte-
                                                                     line                                        67-0
J'o«oCbo.eo©»of...; Aix
      6                                                           Near Cham-

                                                                     bery

rwi                                                               Tarantaise, nr.
                                                                    BurgStMau-
3°, S                                                                rice

3o     «»                                                         Near Moutiers,    14      49-5
o
       gs                                                             Tarantaise          47-25

J                                                                 Valley of Aoste          396
55
                                                                                            14-5

                                                                  Vallee d' Aoste         20-25

                                    Italy.                                                             Italy.
                                                                      N. Lat. 43° to 40°. Mean temp, assumed to be 61°.
       N. Lat. 45° to 43°. Mean temp. 60°.
Piedmont ...Acqui, excess of temperature 0
                         Acqua della Bollente                     F.  Bagni de San Filippo                                         o
                                                       107-           Bagni de Vignone (the Reservoir)                          49- F.
                                                                      Viterbo, Bullicami (the Lake)
                         Valdieri                      8675           Civita Vecchia                                             19-
                                                                      Civillina                                                  25*
                         Vinadio                       93-50          Puzzuoli, Temple of Serapis
                                                                      Baths of Nero                                              37*5
                         Craveggia                     21-50                                                                   121-2
                                                                      Pisciarelli
                         Bobbio                                                                                                 51-0
                                                                      Torre del Annunziata                                       26-
                         Acqua Santa, near Genoa ...   17*
                         La Penna, near Voltri         17.
                         Roccabigliera, near Nizza...  21*5

Lombardy. ..Abano, near Padua                          121-0

Tuscany                  Lucca                         64-
                         Monte Cerboli                 50-

                         Pisa                          46-

                         Monte Catini                  22-#

PapalStatet.Noceia

                                                                                    * At the Reservoir evolves gas consisting
                    REPORT ON MINERAL AND THERMAL WATER9.                                              93

Springs. (Continued.)

Gam mired and their relative      Gaseous contents.                                             Solid contents.
 proportion*one to the other.  In a pint of the water.                                     Nature of the more abundant

i I,                According                                         Total amount of          and of the more active   According
         ec               to                                        Ingredients in a pint         ingredients present.         to
       0H                                                            of the water of the
                                                                    spring most strongly

                                                                         impregnated.

           chief. Daubeny ...                                        Grs.
             iy
                                                                    45 47 Sulphate of soda and lime, Pictet.
                                                                                 mur. of soda and mag.

                                                                     33-3 Sulphate of soda and lime, Demagre.
                                                                                 carb. of lime and mag.

0 0 100 Gimbernat . Carbonic acid, sulph. Sulphur spring                                   Sulphate of lime, soda, and Thibaud.
                                                                    40 mag., muriate mag. and
                               hydrogen

                                                                                           soda

12 0 88 Daubeny.

10 0 90 Socquet ... Carbonic acid, sulph.                           58-1 Sulphate of lime, soda, and Socquet.
                                              hydrogen, trace                 mag., mur. of mag.

                   Daubeny ...                                            A strong brine spring.

                                                                            Mur. soda and mag., sulph. Ruffinelli.
                                                                              of lime and alumina, ox
                                                                               ide of iron

                                                                            Mur. soda, sulph. of mag. Ditto.
                                                                                and lime, oxide of iron

hlandt connected geographically with Italy, and in                             Italy and adjacent islands.
                                                                    N. Lat 40° to 37°. E. Long. 13° to 19°.
            the tame latitude, viz. :
N. Lat 43° to 40°. Mean temp. 61°.                                               Assumed mean temp. 63°.
Gurgitello, Itchia, varies from 83°-5 to ,,
                                                  94°-5... 88-  F.  Santa Eufemia, in Calabria                           o
                                                                    Bagni di Lipari, Itland of Lipari
Aqua de Cappone, Itchia                  27-25                      Termini, Sicily                                     47'
                                                                    Trepani, sulphureous, hot                           63-
Olmitello                                44"00
Citara                                   62-00                      Sciacca, Baths of Santa Cologero

Signi d'Ischia                           52-00
URestituta                               62-00
                                         98-
Coquinas, Sardinia

AcquaCotta                               44-

Benetutti                                39-

Sudan                                    50'

Giritera,Cornea                          61-

Gugno                                    57*

l'i carbonic, 2 oxygen, 98 nitrogen. (Daubeny.)
94 SIXTH REPORT 1836.

                            Spanish Peninsula.

N. Lat. 41° to 36°. W. Long. 9° to E. Long 1°.
              Mean temp, not sufficiently ascertained.
....In Spain
              Along the line of the Pyrenees are several, especially in
                  Catalonia, near Barcelona ; and at Albania, near Cata-

                  layud in Aragon.         of  Murcia -- Fuente  de  Buzot,
              Near the volcanic hills
                                                 Archena,
              At  near Alicant (104°F.), and                 near Murcia.
                  the foot of the Sierra Noveda   range --  that near Merida,
                  in Estremadura.
              Amongst the mountains of Grenada --the haths of Javal-
                  Cohol, near Baeza ; those near Albania ; and those

                  near Almeria.                 of the  Basque  provinces  --
              Amongst the mountain-chain
                          Calda di Bonar, near Leon ; and Orense, in Galicia.

In Portugal. . Province of Minho -- San Antonio das Taipas, or Caldas
                  das Taipas, near Guimarens, sulphureous 91° F. ;

                  2. Caldellas de Rendusa, 89° ; 3. Canaveres, near

                  Guimarens, sulphureous, 93°-2 ; 4. Guimarens, sul
                  phureous, 138°;  5M.onMteosn--cao1,.
              Province of Tra los                       near Ucana, 1090-4.

                                                        Carlao, Villa- real, sul

                  phureous, 92°-8 ; 2. Chaves, near Braganza, alkaline,
                  1410,8 ; 3. Pombal d'Anicaes, near Torre de Mon-
                  corvo, sulphureous, 95° ; 4. Ponte de Cavez, Villa-
                  Real, sulphureous, 74°- 75 ; 5. Rede de Corvaceira, de
              ProMvionlceedoo,fdBe ePiraana--gu1i.aoA, lca9f8ac°h6e., near Viseu, 980-6 ; 2.
                  Aregos, near Lamego, 142°-25 ; 3. Canas de Senho-
                  rim, near Viseu, 93°2 ; 4. Carvalhal, near Viseu,
                  98°-6; 5. Santa Gemil, or Lagiosa, near Viseu, 120°-2;
                  6. San Pedro Dosul, near Viseu, 153°-5; 7. Penagar-
                  cia, or Caldas di Monsortinho, near Castelbranco, 68° ;
                  8. Penamacon, 68°; 9. Prunto, Azenha, or Vinha da
                  Rainha, near Coimbra, 89°* 6 ; 10. Ranhados, near Pin-
                  hel, 107o-6; 11. Rapoila de Coa, near Castelbranco,
                  93°-2; 12. Unhaes da Serra, near Guarda,
                                                                 87°'8.
                     N.B. All the above are sulphureous,         excepting
                  Penamacon.
              Province of Estremadura -- 1. Caldas da Rainhas, near
                  Alemquer, sulphureous, 93°- 2 ; 2. Cascaes, or Estoril,
                  Torres Vedras, 84°- 2;
                  sulphureous, 91°4; 4.     3. Gaieiras,    near Alemquer,
                                            Leyria, 77°;    5. Lisbon, sul
                  phureous, 86°; 6. Miorga, Alcobaca, 82°-4 ; 7. Povea
                  de Coz, Alcobaco, 77°; 8. Rio-Real, Alemquer, sul

                  phureous, 75°-2 ; 9. Torres Vedras, lll°-2 ; 10. Agua
                  santa de Vimeiro, 780,8.

              Province  of  Alentijo--l.   Cabeco de Vide, 80°-6.    sul
              Province  of  A'garves-- 1.    Monchique, near Lagos,

                  phureous, 92°- 7; 2. Tavira, 75°50.
REPORT ON MINERAL AND THERMAL WATERS.  95

                             Provinces of European Turkey.
                    N. Lat. 46° to 41°. E. Long. 17° to 29°.

                        Mean temp, not sufficiently ascertained.
    Line of thermal waters extends from north to south in Servia, at the
foot of the chain of mountains which connects the Carpathians with
the ridge of the Balkan, and through which the Danube forces ite way
between Moldava and Gladova. The line of hot springs begins at
Mehadia, in the Bannat, and extends south beyond Nizza in Servia.

   A second line may be traced running east and west at the foot of the

Balkan. The hottest has a temperature of 1620-5.

   A third group exists in southern Macedonia, near Salonichi and

Serres. They are mostly sulphureous.

                                      Greece and its Islands.
                   N. Lat. 41° to 36°. E. Long. 20° to 27°.

                                 Mean temp, not ascertained.

   A group of thermal springs at the base of Mount Olympus, of which

that at the Pass of Thermopylae is the only one whose temperature is
ascertained. This found by Clark to be 113°.

   Hot bath of Venus, east of Corinth.
   Korantzia, south of Mount Geranicus, near the Gulf of Corinth,
gaseous eruptions and a spring at 870,8.
   At Venetiko, west of Lepanto, a sulphureous thermal spring, called
Taphoi (Tombs of Nessus).
   Six leagues from Patras, a saline thermal spring, 96°*8.
   In the Morea, near Methone, in the ancient Argolis, near the base
of an extinct volcano, and in the Archipelago, in the islands of Negro-
pont, (Lelantho, near the ancient Chalcis,) Milo, Thermia, and Lemnos,
are thermal waters*.

                                                       Iceland.

                   N. Lat. 63° to 67°. W. Long. 12° to 25°.
                                   Mean. temp. 37°-4 Fahr.

   A very numerous class of sulphureous waters, with a high tempera

ture, in that part of the island, where trachyte exists, and volcanic
eruptions at present take place.

   A second class of thermal waters of a lower temperature, and impreg
nated only with carbonic acid gas, in the volcanic promontory of Snee-
field-Syssel, where igneous operations have ceasedf.

            * Consult Virlet, Expedition Scientifique de MorSe.

         t See Krug von Nidda in Edinb. New Phil. Journ., vol. xxii.
8H

           *?
Observations on the Direction              and Intensity  EodfwthaerdTeSrraebstinriael,
   Magnetic Force in Scotland.
                                             By Major
  B.A., F.R.S., 8,-c.

                                  [With a Plate.]

pAerH, Eweorebsmeravdaetiodnus,rinwghaichleafvoermofthaebssuebnjceectwoitfhthwehfiochllowI iwnags  pa
                                                                                                   in
Idulged from military duty in Ireland, in the summer of 1836.

      was indebted for the opportunity of extending them to several
stations in the Western Islands, to the interest felt in the subject,
and to the private friendship of James Smith, Esq., of Jordan-
hill, President of the Andersonian Institution at Glasgow, who
devoted a cruise of his yacht to the purpose.

                              I. Observations of Dip.

The needle employed in making the observations of dip is the
one characterized as S (2) in the account of the Magnetical Ob
servations  1i4n9)I.relaIntdwa(Fs ifmthadReefpoorrtmoef  the British Association,
                                                         by Robinson, of Devon
pp. 141 --
shire-street, London, to be used on Professor Lloyd's principle
of determining both dip and intensity by the same needle. Its
length is ll£ inches. The only peculiarity in the apparatus in
which it is used is, that the agate planes of support are rendered
horizontal by a detached circular brass plate, ground for the pur
pose, and carrying a small spirit level. The plate is placed on
the planes themselves, and the foot-screws are adjusted until the
level remains stationary whilst the plate is turned in every di
rection ; and it is then removed. There are also levels attached

permanently to the circle, which serve to detect any change which
might subsequently take place in the horizontality of the planes
during the course of the observation. The mode of observation
of the dip is the same as usual. The number of readings em
ployed in each result is noted in the tables, the reading of each
pole being considered as a distinct reading. The needle was re
moved from its supports by Ys, and lowered afresh between each
pair of readings ; and the face of the circle and of the needle were
changed round frequently in the course of each determination.
In a needle on Professor Lloyd's principle, the poles are not
changed in each observation of the dip ; consequently a correc
tion is                                    to all the results            with it
         rve.q--uire1d836t.o  be  applied   h                  obtained
   vol.
98 SIXTH RBPORT 1836.

fatoohfrnisgictrhecaetovyrietryefofcefatcniatoddnojuofisfstthmtleheeeanmrtanoxmtlrebeanrysethulcyomoumilfdpoeafbvreteihnresgatrtntithceateeilndyedledicp,.oiunonbcTlisedheseersnvtet,ahdmewaochtueninsctothrmeoisesf
one station with that needle, and with others of the ordinary con
struction in which the poles                  are changed in each determination.
The following observations,                   made at Limerick, furnish this cor

rection.               1. NeedleS (2).

Date.           No.of  No.of Read                 Dip      Reduced to
                Sets.  ings in each           observed.    Jan. 1836.

                             Set.

July 1835       214 80                        16-93                                   15-68
                                                  7°1                           71 14-60
December 1835 3                               71 146                            71 137
                                       /)                                       71 13-25
                                                                             7°1
February 1836          40 71 13-4                                               71 147
                       80 71 120
May 1836

Mean, weight being allowed proportioned
             to the number of sets.

                       2. With other needles-

Date.           No.of  No.of Read                 Dip                           Reduced to
                Sets.  ings in each           observed.                          Jan. 1836.

                             Set.

                                               o                                 O

                                              71 H-7                            71 05-4 Meyer'sNeedle.
November 1833   21 24  48                     is /                                '
August 1834...                                                                        5
May 1836               96 71 03-5 70 59 Doflond S(l).  \?
May& June 1836                                                                  71 01-8 Dollond (1).
                       128                    71 00-57                                       S

                       128                    71 0005                           71 01-4 Meyer's Needle.

Mean, weight being allowed proportioned                                         71 02-8
             to the number of sets.

Whence results that -- 12' the correction for the dips ob
           it it                                                                  small      amount of this
served with                                                                       within     the limits com
correction                 S

                                           ;
             Needle      (2) and from the
             may be    regarded as constant
prised by the observations in Scotland. The dips inserted in the

» In Meyer's needle, by the use of spheres of different magnitudes in die
different sets, the results are obtained from arcs differing very widely from
each other, and in which the needle rests on very different parts of the axle.
The avoidance thereby of any                   error,    caused by the imperfect curvature
of some particular parts of the  constant     one of     the advantages ofa needle on this
                                 axle,
             is
                                                    is

                                                if
construction which ought not to be lost sight of, or unattended to in observing
with it. The partial results may he wider the axle be not very truly ground,
but the mean more likely to be free from error.
                      MAGNETICAL OBSERVATIONS IN SCOTLAND.                                                   <!!)

following table have therefore been diminished 12' from the ori
ginal observations.

                                Table I.

                     Observations of Dip, Needle S (2).

Station.              Lat, Long      Date.          No. of          Dip.  Place of Observation.
                                                    Head.
                                                    ings. 1

                                                             !

                         o/    n'    July 22, 23    240   1      o   /    Provost's Garden, Trinity College.
                       53 21   6 15                             71  oi-i
GHetleCnusbmubrrgahy  . 56 0   4 41  JJuullyy  28.  160 1 72 15-9         Scabeach.
                      . 55 48  4 50            30.  80 71 58-7            NE. end of the Island.
Loch  Ridan ...       55       5 10  Aug. 5.        52 , 72 14-2          Eastern side of the Loch.
Loch  Gilphead        56  57   5 23  Aug. 7-        104 72 05'2           Wood near the Canal.
                          01   5 45  Aug. 9.
Castle Duart... 56 31                               yt> 72 12-8           Grounds of Castle Duart.
Tobermoric ... 56 38 6 01 Aug. 10.                  80 73 05-2            Scabeach S. of the Town.
Loch Scavig ... 57 14 6 07           Aug. 12.       48 73 02 8            Near the entrance of I,och Coruisk.
Loch Slapin ... 57 14 6 02           Aug. 14.       48 72 59-7            E. side of the inner Loch.
                      56 33 5 48 Aug. 16.           48 72 40-4            Limestone Point S. of the Castle.
                      56 39    5 07  Aug.           /2 72 14-7            Grove near the Village.
Fort Augustus         57 08    4 40  Aug.      17.  72 72 37-9            Field near the Canal.
                               4 11  Aug.      19.  64 72 441             Grounds of
                      57 27    3 57            20.                        Wood near    tAhbeerItnonrf,.
                      57 58          Aug. 23.       236 72 53-1
Inverness                      4 11 Aug. 21.        48 72 43-g            Grounds of Abertorf.
                      »727     3 09 Aug. 25.        88 72 38-4
Gordon Castle 57 37            2 50 Aug. 26.                              Grounds of the Castle.
Rhynie                57 20    2 45 Aug.27&29.      88 72 23-2            Field near the Inn.
Alford                57 13    3 25 Aug. 30.        160 72 1S-5           By the River in front of the Manse.
                      57 01    3 18 Aug. 31.        80 72 117             Field near the Inn.
Blairgowrie ... 56 36                               80 71 52-25           Field N. of the Town.
Newport    -- . 56 25 2 55 Sept. 1.                 136 72 14-95          Field inland of the Village.
Kirkatdy              56 07 3 09 Sept. 3.           88 72 08-5            Mr. Fergus's Garden.
                      55 35 9 44 Sept 6.            80 71 31-45           Riverside, E. of the Abbey.
                      55 34 2 39 Sept. 7.           80 71 31-2            Tweed side.
Edinburgh ... 55 57 3 11 Sept. 8.                    80                   Botanic Garden.
                               4 14 Sept. 9.        lill        71 47-9   Botanic Garden.
                                                                71 592    Field East of the Town.
Helensburgh... 56 0 1 41 Sept. 13.                  mi 72 12-6            East side of the Ix»ch.
Loch Ranza... 55 42 5 17 Sept. 16.                  I3U 72 2045
Campbeltown . 55 23 5 38 Sept. 16.                  HU 71 53-5            S. side of the Harbour.
                      54 55 4 59 Sept. 18.          60 71 40(|3           Seabeach E. side of the Loch.
                      54 40 5 40 Sept. 21.          BO 71 36-7            Grounds of the Castle.
                      53 21 6 15 Oct. 4 .           30 71 007             Provost's Garden, Trinity College.

The latitudes and longitudes are taken from the map of Scot
land published by the Society for Diffusing Useful Knowledge.
The stations and dips enumerated in the preceding table re
quire to be combined, according to the method exemplified in
the Irish Magnetical Report, in order to determine the angle
which the isoclinal lines in Scotland make with the meridian ;
and the distance apart of the isoclinal lines which correspond to
certain differences of dip. For this purpose some one station
may be selected as the origin of the coordinates of distance of
the other stations ; and at that station the dip should be as
Icertained with all possible accuracy. In the progress of the
observations,                  had occasion frequently to remark the disturb
ance in the direction of the needle caused by the vicinity of rocks
of igneous origin. Rocks of this nature are so extensively and
generally diffused throughout Scotland, as to make it doubtful
whether any station could be selected, which might be confidently
assumed to be entirely free from local disturbance of this na
                                                          il 2
100 SIXTH REPORT-- 1836.

ture; and at which consequently the dip, observed with sufficient
                                                                                          to the
care and repetition, might be            presumed      to be due                 solely
geographical position of the             station.                               view,    I have
                                                     With this
deemed it preferable to take an arbitrary geographical position,
nearly central in regard to Scotland and to the body of the ob
servations, and to compute the most probable dip for that po
sition by a combination of the results at all the stations of obser
vation. The central position adopted is lat. 56° 27', long. 4° 25'

W. of Greenwich. The coordinates of distance in latitude and

longitude of the several stations from the central position, ex
pressed in geographical miles, are inserted in the subjoined
table, together with the observed dips at each station, iu degrees
and decimals of a degree.

                                   Table II.

         Station.  Din;     urn.   Dip.    l   Station.                  Din".   M.il.   Dip.
                    of       of             1                            'of      of
Loch Scavig . .    Lat.    Long.                                         I-at.
Loch Slapin . .                                                                 Long.

Inverness ....     + 47    + 55    73047       -Loch Ridan ...             30 +25 72-237
                                   72-995      Blairgowrie . . + 9 -37
Inverness          + 47    -+1552  72-885      -27+9Helensburgh . .                      71-871
Tobermorie . .     + 91                        -27Helensburgh . .               +9
Fort Augustus      + 60    --8     72-735      Lock Ranza . .          --                72-265
Gordon Castle      + 60    --8     72-732                                  451+29
Castle Duart..     + 11            73087       -Cumbray ....           --  39 +14        72-210
                   + 41    +53     72-632                              --  64 +42        72-341
Alford                     +8                  CNaemwppobretltow..n.. .                  71978
Loch Gilphead      + 70    +41     72-640                                   2 --50       71-892
                   +6      +46                                           - 36 -- 6       72250
                   +4      + 44    72-673                                                71-987
                   + 12    +23                                         -- 20 --42 72142
                   +53     --51    72-213                                -- 30 --41 71798
                   + 34            72 245      Edinburgh               -107 +43 71-612
                           -33
                   +-2436          72-387      Stranraer ....          --- 92 +20. 71-692--52---6507
                           --54    72-195                                  53            71-574
                                               Dryburgh                                  71520
                           + 35    72-325
                                   72087

We have then three unknown quantities to seek ; viz. 8 = the
dip at the central position ; u = the angle which the isoclinal
line passing   through the central position
ridian ; and                                              makes with the me
              r = the coefficient determining              the rate of increase
of the dip in the normal direction.
Putting r cos u = x, and r sin u = y, the equations of con
dition to be combined by the method of least squares are of the
following form :

                                   -72-995

                                   =8-72-885
Loch Scavig                        73-047 = 8 + 55.x -47.y,
Loch Slapin                                    =          52.x             -9147..yy,,
Golspie . . .                                     8  +    15. x
                            MAGXETICAL OBSERVATIONS IN SCOTLAND.                                                  101

and so forth, there being as many equations as there are stations

of observation. Or if we diminish by an equal amount (71°, for

instance,) each of the observed dips, for the convenience of work
ing with smaller numbers, and make 8 = 71° + these equa
tions become,
                                       8' 8* V
                                           +

                                                                                                    8*,
                              2-047 =      - -55.x -- 47.y,
                              1-995 =
                              1-885 =      + 52.x 47. y,
                                               15.. v -- 91. y,

and so forth. The sum of the 30 equations, representing the
sum of the equations severally multiplied by the coefficient of
9,                            ...+ 38-238 = + 30
   8* is                                        8' 8* S»    4.x 56.                y                              (A)
                                                            +                         y
              8*                                    + 8*
Next, multiplying the same equations severally by the respective:+
coefficients of x, we have;;                              --+ 3025.x
                                                             2704.x
                            + 112-585 = + 55                          2585. y,
                            =-+ 103-740 = + 52                        2444.y,
                            -- 28-275                     + 225.x 1365. y,
                                          15                +

and so forth the sum of these 30 equations being                                                         .  ..    (B)
                + 170-00 = +48' + 43084.x + 9660.

And lastly, multiplying by the coefficients of y, we have
                            --- 96-209=
                                          47 -- 2585.x 2209.y,8» 8' 8'++
                            - --- 93-765 =47 2444. x + 2209. y,
                                          91 + 1365. x 8281. y,
                            --- 171-535 =

and so forth the sum being

                            -431-82= + 56  81             9660.x 7l514.y .                                        (C)
                                                            +
                                              +

   The three final equations A, B, C, furnish by elimination the
most probable values of the quantities sought. These arc as
follows

= l°-288,                              x = + '00557,                  = -- '00780;
                                       ;
                                             ;

                                                            If
and from these we obtain the dip at the central station = 71°                                               is 8
+ = 72°"288 = 72° l7'-3 the angle which the isoclinal line
makes with the meridian = -- 54° 27'; or its direction from
N. 54° 27' E. to S. 54° 27' W. and the rate of increase of dip
iu the normal direction = 0',575 in each geographical mile, or

If52-15 geographical miles to each half-degree of dip.

        now we substitute in the second members of the original
equations the previously unknown values of x, and y, we ob
tain the most probable dip due to the geographical position of
each of the stations of observation and, by transposition, the
most probable amount of error in each of the observations,
                                                          ;
                                                                               8,
102 SIXTH REPORT 1836.

whether it be regarded as error of observation or as resulting
from local disturbance : bearing in recollection however, in the
case of stations very distant from the central position, that the
assumption upon which the equations are founded is probably
not strictly correct, viz. of parallelism in the isoclinal lines, and
of an uniform rate of increase of dip throughout Scotland.
The following Table exhibits the differences of observation
and calculation ; and shews the geological character of the surface
rock at   each of the                               stations, taken from Dr.                oMfajcucdugllioncgh,'sI  Map,
which,                                              have had opportunities
          Ias far as                                                                                                  have

found everywhere most remarkably correct. When the ob
served dip is greater than the computed, the sign + is affixed,
and -- when less.

                                                      Table III.

Station.          Dilf.                                                    Station.            Din".        Geological Character.
                observY 1                                                                   obnerv'ij

                    and Geological Character.                                                   and
                compd.                                                                      compd.

                   Dip.                                                                        Dip.

Loch Scavig....      /                              DHyapicrasnthdcnerap.  T-orh Ridan ...  +-ir2-*i05      Mien Slate.&
Loch Slapm ...       -)--1.5 2                                             Blairgowrie ...                  HedSandstone &Trap.&
                                                  '1lied Sandstone.        Ixwh Hanza...    + 0-8       I( HRed Sandstone.
Tobermorie ...  - 3-0                               Trap.                  Campliclton ...                  Clay Slate Granite.
Fort Augustus                                       Red Sandstone.                          -+14
Gordon Castle       '7                              Limestone and Trap.    Kirkaldy   ...                     eelSandstone & Trap^
Castle Duart                                        lied Sandstone.        Edinburgh        + 6-1           Red Sandstone Trap
Glcncoe         -*,!·?                              Trap.                  Bangor                7-9
Alford              ra                              ClayclateA Porphyry.                                     Trap.
Loch Gilphead   + 4-y                               Granite.                                -4-15-3         Coal Series.
                --f2- 1a1'U                         Gnei&s.                                 4- 0-9          Coal Series and Trap.
                -15*9                               Chlorite Slate,                         -r-U-6
                                                                                                              Coal Series Botanic
                - 1*8                                                                       - 17
                                                                                            - 6*1                Garden).
                -10-5                                                                                       Trap.
                                                                                                 o-o        Clay slate.
                --1310-2                                                                                    CUivslatc.
                                                                                            -+ 0-5          ClaysUue.
                                                                                                 1-3

;   We may divide the differences shown in this Table into three                      ;
     isclasses the first, of seven stations, wherein the differences are                                a
very great, amounting to 14' .and upwards second, of eight sta
                ;tions, wherein the differences are more moderate, being between                                       a
14' and 2'; and in the third class we may place the remaining
twelve stations, at which the differences do not exceed 2', being
an amount which scarcely deserves to be called difference.
Referring now to the geological characters of the stations, we
find, 1st, that all those of the first class, or where the differ
ences exceed 14', are stations either of trap rocks or of rocks of
similar nature 2nd, that the stations of moderate differences
are for the most part characterized also by the presence of
igneous rocks either wholly or partially and 3rd, that at all
the stations at which the differences do not exceed 2', the sur
face rock sedimentary. It seems reasonable inference from
these facts, that instrumental errors make but small portion of
                                                                           a

                                                                                        ;

                                                                                             a
           MAGNETICAL OBSERVATIONS IN SCOTLAND.                                          103

the differences under the two first heads ; and that we are war
ranted in considering such differences as evidencing real irre
gularities in the magnetic direction at the respective stations,
caused by the presence of igneous rocks. We shall subsequently
find that this inference is confirmed by the agreement of the
intensities deduced by the horizontal and statical methods,
when the dips actually observed are employed in the reduction
of the horizontal vibrations, and in their extreme disagreement
when the dips due simply to the geographical positions are em

ployed.
A question here arises, how far the general results which we
have derived, in regard to the isoclinal lines, from the combina
tion of the dip observations, are likely to have been affected by
these local irregularities ; and it is satisfactory in this view to
III.find, that a careful consideration of the errors in Table                            leads
to the inference, that the disturbing cause, whatever it may be,
has no uniform tendency, but that its effect is nearly as often

to diminish as to increase the dip. It is indeed a consequence
of the method of combination that the + and -- errors should
nearly balance ; but had the effect of the disturbance at the
igneous stations been uniformly to augment the dip (for in
stance), the sedimentary stations would all have appeared in
defect, and all the igneous ones in excess ; whereas the results
at the sedimentary stations are indiscriminately in excess and
in defect, but to a very inconsiderable amount ; and at the ig
neous stations they are also indiscriminately in excess and in
defect, but with differences of considerable amount.
After much consideration, it does not appear to me that a
more satisfactory or probable conclusion would be arrived at,
           one or more of the stations now  included in  the                             cal
were any   to be withdrawn from it. Every   observation   of                              the
culation,
              inactluOdbeadn,inwhtheerecaI lchualasttiiolyn,obesxecrevpetdingthetwdoi.p  One
dip has been                                                                             on a
of these was
trap rock at no great distance from the wharf, whilst waiting
Ifor a steamer, and the result has been found to differ more than
a degree from the dip assigned by calculation.           suspected the

locality whilst making the observation; and had time per
mitted I should have removed   the  iint stisruImecannt  to another spot,
                                As
and repeated the observation.                            only consider it
too doubtful a result to be placed on the same           footing with the
others. The other rejected observation was of a very extraor
Idinary                                                  west side
Iof the                                                  78° 10'-3,
         nature.  On a rock on which landed, on the
         harbour  at Loch Scavig, observed a dip of
                  that which could be assigned  to the geographical
exceeding  by 5°   never before experienced an   irregularity of dip
position.  1 had
104 SIXTH REPORT 1836.

Iof similar amount, nor had read of others who had done so.
IThe weather was fine, and had full time to assure myself that
there was no instrumental mistake. After completing the series
Iof four readings in each position of the needle, all of which

corresponded well, removed the instrument three several
times to different places of observation distant ten or twelve
yards, always obtaining the same result. The coincidence of
the plane of the circle with the magnetic meridian was also
verified by removing the compass needle to a fourth place con
siderably distant. The rock was hypersthene, remarkably tra
versed and intersected by trap veins, and certainly not an eli
gible spot for magnetic observations. Crossing to the other
side of the harbour, to a spot less intersected by trap veins,
near where the waters from Loch Coruisk fall into the sea, the

needle gave the result 72° S^'S, which has been included in the
calculation, and differs only 5'*2 from the general deduction.
The lines of dip are laid down in the annexed chart agreeably
to the general results which have been deduced. The dip at
the central position in lat. 56° 27' and long. 4° 25' is 72° 17'3,
and the angle which the isoclinal lines make with the meridian
at this station is 54° 2?'. The isoclinal lines drawn in the
map are those of 71° 30*, 72°, 72° 3(y, and 73°, and are at
distances apart of 52-15 geographical miles.
The near accordance in the amount of the iingle with the
meridian, and of the interval corresponding to half-degrees of
dip, with the results obtained in Ireland in the preceding year,
is confirmatory of both as near approximations. The angle
with the meridian of the isoclinal lines in Ireland is 56° 48',

and the interval between the lines representing half-degrees of
dip is 50*7 geographical miles. So far the correspondence of
the observations of the two years and of the two countries is
Ifvery satisfactory. The lines of 71° 3C and 72° are the only
»nes that are common to both countries.       these lines are
prolonged from the Scottish chart, they will enter Ireland to the
south of the corresponding lines on the Irish chart ; the line of
71° 30' by a geographical space equal to about 9' of dip, and

that of 72° by a space equal to about 8'. In other words,
the dip in the north-east part of Ireland, computed from the
Scottish observations, would be about that number of mi
nutes greater than if computed from the general result of
the Irish observations ; and in the north-west of Scotland the
dip computed by the Irish results would be the same quan
tity less than by the Scotch results. Campbelton, Bangor,
and Stranraer are frontier stations which may illustrate this.
The dip at Campbelton deduced from the Irish results (dimi
MAGNETICAL OBSERVATIONS IN SCOTLAND.  105

nished by -3' for the decrease of dip between 1835 and 1836,) is
71° 53'-3 ; deduced from the Scottish results it is 72° 01'-4
The actual observation was 71° 53'"5, agreeing in this case with

the Irish deduction. At Bangor the dip deduced from the
Irish results is 71° 32'-3, and from the Scotch 71° 41'-6 : the

observed dip was 71° 36,-7, being intermediate between the

two deductions. At Stranraer the deduction from the Irish
results is 71° 3 l'*9, and from the Scottish 71 ° 4(y*9 ; the observed
dip being 71° 40'"9, which in this instance corresponds with
the Scotch deduction. The discrepancy is not of greater
amount than may easily disappear on a slight modification of
the results in one or both countries, a modification which they
may be expected to receive from more multiplied and extended
observations. The true values of u and r are probably not
exactly the same in the two countries ; but it may be expected,
when observations shall be sufficiently multiplied, that the de
ductions from the general results in both countries should
agree in giving the same dip for the frontier stations.

   We have hitherto no general series of observations of dip in
England ; but from the great pains which Captain James Clark
Ross has bestowed on its determination in London, we may
regard the result obtained by him in July 1835, viz. 69° 17''3, as
extremely free from instrumental error, and liable only to such
differences from the dip strictly due to its geographical position,
as may arise from local causes. The corrected dip for Sep
tember 1836 would be about 69° 14'. The difference of dip
between the central station in Scotland and in London, com
puted with the values of x and y resulting from the Scotch ob
servations, is -- 3°07, which being deducted from 72° 17''3, leaves
the computed dip in London 69° lC^. This is another con
firmation that the Scotch results are near approximations, pre
suming, as is probable, that the values of u and r are nearly the
same in England as in Scotland. In this instance the deduc
tion from them is in defect ; in the comparison with those from
the Irish results it is in excess.

                          II. Intknsitv.

             §. By Professor Lloyd's Statical Method.
   The observations by this method were made with the same

needle that was employed in determining the dip, viz. S (2).

The method itself is described in the Fifth Report of the British
Association, page 137, and more largely in the Transactions of
the Royal Irish Academy for 1H36.

   It is importaut in all observations of intensity that the needle
106 SIXTH REPORT -- 1836.

Ishould preserve its magnetic state unchanged or nearly so during

the whole series of the observations. had had this needle in my

possession rather more than a twelvemonth, and had ascertained
by frequent trials at the same station that its magnetic power was
diminishing, but at a very slow and uniform rate, well admitting
of interpolation. Being desirous of shortening as much as pos
sible the period within which interpolation might be necessary,
         would                                      interval between
(which   Dublin  naturally  have    bteoenit,t)heI  made more than       my
leaving           and my    return                                       the

Iusual number of observations       at Helensburgh,  the first station
  observed at in Scotland, five     days only after
                                                     I had observed
in Dublin, designing to return to Helensburgh for the purpose

of verification once, or oftener if occasion required, in the pro

gress of the  observations.   I     went  from Helensburgh          was  the
   The first  place to which
island of Great Cumbray. In disembarking the instruments,
there being a good deal of sea, the case containing the needle
fell from the table to the deck of the cabin. The needle was

securely and immoveably fixed in the case, but the soft iron
keeper which connected its poles was allowed a slight spring,
arising from its own elasticity, to prevent its pressing too hard
on the points of the needle. This occasioned a slight jar to
Itake place ; very slight, but still sufficient to be audible.

       conjectured immediately that the magnetism of the needle

might be affected thereby ; and the observations at Cumbray
strengthened this conjecture, by showing a greater difference
Ifrom the Helensburgh results than was likely to be due to the
geographical distance between the stations.                         returned to

Helensburgh the following day, and on repeating the observa
tions there, found that the counterpoise which had deflected the
needle 89° 33'-9, now deflected it 91° 15'-6, showing that the
magnetism of the needle had been lessened. Needles have been
frequently remarked gradually to lose magnetism for sometime
after it has been first communicated to them, until they arrive
at what appears to be a permanent condition for each particular
needle ; after which their magnetism remains steady. As far
as can be conjectured, the jar above described seems to have
brought this needle at once to its permanent state ; for on re
turning to Helensburgh a third time, after an interval of 42

days, the observations being repeated, the same counterpoise
again deflected the needle 91° 18,-7, a result almost identical
with that obtained on  eraerltyurniningOcftroobmer,CuImfbouranyd.,
my return to Dublin                                                  Further, on
                                                                    on carefully
repeating the observations at the same place I had observed at
in July, a difference in the magnetism of the needle almost
MAGNETICAL OBSERVATIONS IN SCOTLAND.              107

identical with the difference indicated by the results at Helens
burgh before and immediately after the accident.
   The ratio of the intensity of terrestrial magnetism between

Dublin and Helensburgh as inferred from the results of July
22nd in Dublin and July 27th in Helensburgh, (being both pre
vious to the accident,) is 1-0067 Helensburgh to 1 in Dublin ;
and as inferred from the results of August 2 and September
13 and 14 in Helensburgh, and October 4th in Dublin, (all sub
Isequent to the accident,) the ratio is 1*0066 and 1-0059 Helens
burgh, to 1 in Dublin.  have therefore taken the result in
Dublin of the 4th October as comparable with all the observa
tions made with this needle in Scotland, excepting the first
results (July) at Helensburgh, and those are comparable with
the first results (July) in Dublin. The same counterpoise was

used throughout.
   Before the values of the terrestrial magnetic force can be
derived with accuracy from the angles of deflection, it is
necessary to apply a correction for the variations of tempe
rature of the needle itself in the observations at the different

stations. The temperatures were observed by a thermometer
placed in the circle with the dipping needle, and remaining
during the course of the observations. For the purpose of
ascertaining the value of this correction for needle S (2), the
needle was suspended horizontally by fibres of unspun silk in an
earthen vessel glazed at the top, standing in a larger earthen
vessel, into which warm water might be poured to raise the
temperature of the air and needle in the inner one. Several
folds of flannel enveloped the whole apparatus, being drawn
close round the upper part of the inner vessel, to keep the tem
perature steady for periods of sufficient duration. The tempe
rature of the needle was shown by a thermometer suspended
horizontally across it, not being in contact with any part of the
apparatus. The needle was then vibrated alternately in the
natural temperature of the room, and in the artificially raised
temperature. An arc for measuring the extent of the vibration
was placed beneath the needle, which was drawn out of the
meridian, and released at pleasure by a suitable contrivance.
The following observations were made at Limerick on the 30th
of October.
108 SIXTH REPORT -- 1836.

         Hour.      Therm. Time of 100           Means.
                                    Vibrations.

         h. in.     49           s.              1U46-·4· 4at49.
         2 45 p.m.  49
                    49        64664              J
     3 02       ,,  99        646-40             ]
     3 17       ,,  99
     4 11           90        646-27              1 646-55 at 90-5.
                ,,            646-72
     4 28           74        646-53             J
     5 20       ,,  55        64673
                    54        64600               | 64535 at 54-5.
     7 15       ,,            645-43
    11 15       ,,            645-26
                ,,
    11 38
                ,,

- ^ J, VHere           =  2   IT   -- T')                 = 645-89 ;  - TT
in  the  formula,   a
                           1   (T  --T)

= 0"-G ; t t' = 38°7. Whence a = -000048.
In this experiment the time of vibration, as may be seen,
varied considerably in the cold temperatures at the commence

ment and at the close, and gave reason to believe that the

change due to temperature might be overpowered by the
diurnal variation of the force. The experiment was therefore
repeated on the 15th November, as follows :

         Hour.      Therm. Time or 110           Means.
                                    Vibrations.

    h. m.                     8.

    4 58 p.m. 49 660-56                          1U6W)4 at 49.

    5 16 ,,         JI49  660-87
    5 34 ,,               661-33
    5 50 ,,         49
    7 30 ,,         49 661-40

                    91 661-73

    7 48        ,,  89    661-67                 JV-661-77at87-6.
    8 05        ,,  86    662-20
                    84-5
    8 24        ,,        661-47

    11 10       ,,  51-5  660-60                 J1        at 51.
    11 25       ,,        661-40
    11 43       ,,  510   660-93                 y 660-98
                    505

T - T -Here = 661s ; T
                    = Os-76 ; t r = 37°-6. Whence a =
I·000061. This experiment appears more satisfactory than the

preceding one ; but as the results are so nearly the same, have
taken the arithmetical mean -000055 for the value of a, which
being multiplied by M, the modulus               of the              system of
                                                           common    correction
logarithms, = -000024 the coefficient            of t --
                                                           r in the

for temperature.

   In Table IV. the two last columns contain the value of the
intensity computed from the angles of deflection, and from the
          MAGNETICAL OBSERVATIONS IN SCOTLAND.                                 109

dip, and corrected for the variations of temperature inserted in
the preceding columns. In the first of the final columns the
ratios are expressed to unity in Dublin. In the last column the
ratios are expressed to unity in London, and are the numbers in
the preceding column multiplied by 1-0208, which has been
ascertained by Mr. Lloyd to express the                   value of     Rth.eI.inAtceandsietmy yin,
Dublin, that at London being unity.                       {Trans.

1836.)                               Table IV.

                        Intensity, Needle S (2).

Station.         Date.               Hour.   i 0-3        Angle.                  Intensity.
                                                                       Dublin = 1 London = I

                                             o o/

Dublin           July 22             -7 tO 8 A.M. 56 240 -- 18 27-2    10000   1-0208
Helensburgh ...  July 27             1 1 tO 1 P.M. 60 80  17 17-9      1-0067
                                                                               1-0276
Gt.Cumbray ... July 30               3 to 5 p.m. 04 144 -- 18 31-9     10091
                                     12 to 3 p.m. 65 108 -- 18 59-7    10066   10301
Helensburgh ... Aug. 2                       70 28 -- 15 29-3          1-0262
Tobermorie . ... Aug. 10             9 a.m.                                    1-0275
                                     8 to 9 A.M. 56 48 -- 15 59        1-0228  10475
Loch Slapin ... Aug. 14              8 to 9 A.M. 57 60 -- 17 50-8      10126   1-0441
                                     2 to 4 p.m. 59 160 -- 16 44-2     10189
                 Aug. 17                                               10162   10337
                                                                               10401
                 Aug. 20             11 tO 1 P.M. 51 96 -- 17 08-4     1-0180
                 Aug. 23             4 to 6 p.m. 58 92 -- 16 53-7      10182   1-0373
                                                                               10391
                 Aug. 24             4 to 5 p.m. 60 80 -- 16 52-4      10097   10393
Gordon Castle . Aug. 25                                                10072   10307
                                     5 to 7 p.m. 57 100 -- 18 22       1-0112  1-0281
Alford           Aug. 27             7 tO 8 A.M. 44 56 -- 18 401               1-0321
                                     3 to 5 p.m. 59 120 -- 18 061      1-0080  10290
                            Aug. 30          60 40 -- 18 40-8                  1-0292
Blairgowrie .... Aug. 31             Noon                              1-0082  1-0222
                                                                       10013   10211
                 Sept. 1                     60 48 -- 18 377           10003   10245
                 Sept. 3             Noon                              1-0035  1-0246
                                     4 to 6 p.m. 51 80 -- 19 43-7      10036   10268
                 Sept. 6             3 to 5 p.m. 56 80 -- 19 561               10274
                                                                       1-0059  10311
                 Sept. 7             5 to 6 p.m. 55 40 -- 19 240               10235
                                                                       1-0065  1-0268
                 Sept. 8             11 to 12 a.m. 56 80 -- 19 24-0    10100   10208
                                                                       10026
                 Sept. 9             12 to 3 p.m. 64 80 -- 19 061      1-0059
Helensburgh ... Sept.l3&14                                             10000
Loch Ranza ... Sept. 16              8 tO 10 A.M. 57 80 -- 18 55-9
                                      6 to 8 p.m. 53 90 -- 18 161
Campbelton ... Sept. 16                                80 -- 19 31-8

                 Sept. 18            9 tO 11 A.M. 52   -72 -- 18 55-9

                 Sept. 21            9 tO 11 A.M. 50   79 19 53-3
                 Oct. 4              12 to 2 p.m. 4!)
Dublin

  If now we make/= the most probable value of the intensity

at the same central geographical position that was assumed in
the calculation of the dip observations, viz. lat. 56° 27', long.
4° 25' west ; u = the angle which the isodynamic line pass
ing through the central position makes with the meridian ;
110 SIXTH REPORT 1836.

and r = the coefficient which determines the rate of increase
/ f,of the force in the normal direction ; and if we put as before
r cos u -- x, r sin u = y, and = 1 +                        we have three series

of equations, analogous to those in the dip calculations ; each
series in the present instance consisting of 23 equations. Sum
ming each series we obtain the three final equations as follows :

      + -7158=+ 23/-- 158a: + 154y                                    . . (A)
      --  2-7180= --  158/  +  31892a-                      + 8767 y  . . (B)
      --              154/  +                               + 63334y  . . (C)
           1-251 =+             8767 x

From which we obtain by elimination,

               *as + -00010705 ; y = -- -00011186 ;
         u -- -- 46° 15'-5 ; r -- -0001548; and/' = -0326.

The intensity at the central position is consequently 1-0326 to
unity in London. The isodynamic line passing through it
makes an angle of 46° 15'-5 with the meridian ; and lines corre
sponding to differences of intensity amounting to -005 are at
intervals apart of 32-29 geographical miles. These are the
results of the statical method.

                      II. Intensity.

      § 2. By the Method of Horizontal Vibrations.

   These observations were made in the well-known apparatus

of M. Hansteen. The cylinders employed were two, belonging
to Professor Lloyd, which had been extensively used by us both
orinef pootbhrseteorIvrfiinstghhowsmehaiocgbhnseeItricvpaaultrisounoesbdseairnvs aSLticoon(atsl),anaandnddisLapr(rebe)cd.iesesclTyrhibeesidmmiielnathrtohtdeo
the description given in that Report ; and nothing further in
respect to it appears necessary to be added here, except that the
same silk suspension was preserved throughout ; the same chro
nometer, of small and very steady rate, always employed ; and
that  cthoelucmoneffoicfie"ntcofrorerctteemd pteirmateur"e    for both cylinders is -00025.
The                                                         in the subjoined Tables is the

time of vibration reduced by this coefficient to a standard tem
perature of 60°.
                MAGNETICAL OBSERVATIONS IN SCOTLAND.                                                     Ill

                               Table V.

                Times of Vibration of Cyl. L (a).

Station.        Date.                       Hour.  Time of           Corrected    Place of Observation.
                                                   Vibra Tem.          Tunc.
                                                     tion.

                                            hm                o         s

                July 21. 9 0 a.m. 243'-47 59                         1 243-47   J" Provost's garden,     Tri
                                                                                       nity College.
                25. 7 30 a.m. 243-11 55

Helensburgh.    28.                         4 40 p.m. 250-90  S4-5   1
                                            5 10 p.m. 250-93  53-5
                28.                                           S4-2   1 25 1-05 Sea- beach.
                                            7 16 a.m. 251-33  r..V2
                Aug. 2.                     8 00 A.M. 251-51  58-2   J          field east of the town.
                                            1 50 p.m. 249-62  58
                                        1.  2 10 p.m. 249-79         1 249-82   \/Field N.E. end of the
                                                                                       island.
Gt. Curnbray. July 30.

                30.

LochGilphead    Aug. 7.                     0 50 p.m. 250-88 69      1
Tobermorie...               7.              4 30 p.m. 249-62 61
                            7.              4 50 p.m. 249-30 59      L 249-75 Sir John Orde's grounds.

                          10.               8 20 a.m. 254-79 67      J

                                                                       254-34 Sea-beach S. of the town.

Loch Scavig .   12. 6 20 p.m. 263-49 60                                 263-49  J" Near the fall from Loch
Loch Slapin...  14. 8 30 a.m. 254-47 59-5                               254-50
                16. 8 30 a.m. 252-57 60                                         J\1 Coruisk.
Artornish ....                                                                     Inner Loch, E. side, on
                                                                                       limestone.
                                                                        \J252-57  On a limestone point S.
                                                                                     of Castle.

                17. 8 30 a.m. 250-17 57-5 250-32 Wood near the village.
                                                                     I 253-34 Field near the fort.
Fort Augustus   19. 2 50 p.m. 253-40 61
Inverness ...   21. 9 30 a.m. 253- 16 52                                           Grounds of Abertorf.

                21. 5 00 p.m. 252-38 53-5                            f 253-11   >Craig Fhatric.
                21. 5 20 p.m. 252-32 51

                23. 8 50 a.m. 253-20 50-5                            1 254-48   V Wood near the inn.
                23. 9 20 a.m. 25315 50-5                                        V Wood up the glen.
                23. 2 30 p.m. 254-62 52-5
Inverness ...   23. 3 00 p.m. 254-82 53-0

                24.                         0 40 p.m. 253-31  54-0   1 253-53 Grounds of Abertorf.
                24.                         1 10 P.M. 253-07  550
                                                                                { Grounds of Gordon Cas-
Gordon Castle   l25.1 1 45 p.m. 252-69 60-0                                            tie.

                25. 2 10 p.m. 252-78 60-5
                M. 6 35 p.m. 250-27 48-5                             1 252-72
                26. 7 10 p.m. 250-42 47-5
                                                                     } 25109    Field S.E. of the inn.

Alford          28. 7 45 a.m. 251-90 54                              1 252-23 Grove, near the manse.

                28. 8 10 a.m. 251-73 52
                J29. 7 50 a.m. 251-79 52-5
                30. 9 00 A.M. 250-49 52-5 250-96 Field near the inn.

Blairgowrie...          31.                 6 00 r.M. 247-98 57-5      248-10 Field N. of the town.
                        31.                 6 30 p.m. 247-92 57-5    ]·
                Sept. 1.                    1 40 p.m. 251-23 59-5
                                                                       251-26 A Meld inland.

Kirkaldy               3. 9 00 A.M. 250-38 53-5 250-79 Mr. Fergus's garden.

                       6.                   5 50 r.M. 246-91 49-5    1 247-56 [Field E. of the Abbey.
                       6.                   6 10 p.m. 246-86 48-5
                       7. 4 10 p.m. 246-89 55-0 247-20 Tweed side.
Dryburgh ...
                13. 1 40 p.m. 251-24 61-0
Helensburgh .   14. 12 30 p.m. 251-29 59-0                           1 25 1-27 Field E. of the town.
LochRanza...
                16. 10 10 A.M. 252-66 61-5                              \f252-57  Sea-beach E. 6ide      of
                                                                                     harbour.
112                         SIXTH REPORT 1836.

                            Table V. {continued.)

                            Hour.  Time of                  Corrected      Place of Observation.
                                   Vibra                       Time.
                                     tion.

Campbclton... Sept. 17. 6 45 a.m. 248-57 48-0               249-33     iC  Sea-beach    S. side of the
                                 17. 7 00 a.m. 248-61 48-0  r 247-68           harbour  on red Saud

                       18. 3 35 p.m.247-20 54-3                        is stone.
                       18. 3 45 p.m. 247-54 56-0
Stranraer. .           81. 9 45 a.m. 246-53 |48-6                      Field S. of the town.
                       21. 10 15 a.m. 246-72 490
\Bangor (co. f                                              L 247-30 Grounds of Bangor Castle.
  Down) ...             3, 10 10 a.m. 243-25 450
Dublin           Oct.   3. 2 8 p.m. 243-22 '47-0
                                                                       ("Provost's garden, Tri-
                              2 30 p.m. 24309 [48-0         \1243-92
                                                                             nity College.
                               1 45 p.m. 24318 51-5

                       l\mes of Vibration of Cyl. L(b.)

     Station.    Date.      Hour.  Time of                  Corrected      Place or Observation.
                                    Vibra Tcm.                Time.
                                      tion.

                                   hm                       s          J\ Provost's garden, Tri-
                                                                            nity College.
                 July 24. 8 30 a.m. 293-22 )9°0
                       25. 8 00 A.M. 292-25 54-0 1292-96

                       25. 8 40 a.m. 292-57 55-5 1

Helensburgh .          28.  4 00 p.m. 30215 J69-4           1          iC  Sea-beach.
                            8 30 a.m. 302-22 54-5                          Field E. of
                 Aug. 1.    7 45 a.m. 302-55 651            J>30208                     the  town.

                        2.                                             [ Sea-beach.
                                                                       Field N.E. end of the isld.
Gt. Cumbray . July 30. 2 30 p.m. 300-53 57-6 300-71

Loch Gilphead Aug.      7.  1 25 p.m. 301-73 67-5           1 300-22   Sir John Orde's grounds.
                        7.  5 10 p.m. 298-93 55-5

Tobermorie...          10. 8 40 a.m. 306-03 67-5 305-46                Sea-beach S. of the town.

Loch Sea rig...        12. 8 00 p.m. 316-13 600 316-13                 \f Near the fall from Loch
                                                                              Coruisk.
Loch Slapin...         14. 8 50 a.m. 304-97 59-0               305-04  Inner loch on limestone.
Artornish ...          16. 8 50 a.m. 303-75 60-0               303-75  On a limestone point.
                                                              301-17   Wood near the village.
Fort Augustus          17. 9 20 a.m. 300-91 56-5               304-00
                       19. 3 00 p.m. 304-30 640                        /Field near the fort
                       21. 8 30 a.m. 302-46 520             1 303-16      Grounds of Aberlorf.
                                                                       1 Craig Phatric.
                       21. 5 30 p.m. 302-42 49-0            } 305-87
                                                                       \I Wood near the inn.
                       23. 4 15 p.m. 305-33 53-5            1 304-25      Wood up the glen.

Inverness ...          23. 4 40 p.m. 305-50 54-0            1 303-29   Grounds of Abertorf.

                       24. 11 50 a.m. 303-79 530            1 301 -24
                       24. 1 20 p.m. 303-68 530             1 302-67
                       25. 1 00 p.m. 30316 58-5
Gordon Castle                                                 300-88   In the grounds of theCasrtc.
                                                                       Field S.E. of the inn.
                       25. 1 20 p.m. 303-27 59-5            I 297-69

                       26. 6 10 p.m.1300-27 50-5              301-72
                                                              300-87
                       26. 7 25 p.m.!300-34 44-5
                       28. 8 30 a.m. 302-04 52-
Alford                                                                 Grove near the manse.

                       28. 8 50 a.m. 302-09 52-                        Field near the inn.

                       30. 9 30 a.m. 300-47 54-5                       Field N. of the town.
                                                                       A field inland.
Blairgowrie...         31. 5 20 p.m. 297-47 57-5                       Mr. Fergus's garden.
                       31. 6 45 p.m. 297-47 56-4

Kirkaldy         Sept. 1. 1 00 p.m. 301-79 610
                        3. 10 30 a.m. 300-80 590
               MAGNETICAL OBSERVATIONS IN SCOTLAND.                                        113

                              Table V. {continued.)

Station.        Date.         Hour.     Time of        Corrected     Placcof Observation.
                                        Vibra Tern.      Time.

                                           tion.

                           hm           18       o             a

Melrose         Sept. 6. 6 40 p.m. 295-68 46-5         1 296-85 Field E. of the Abbey.

Helensburgh .    7. 8 45 a.m. 296-55 53-5              J1\ 301-33 Field E. of the town.
                13. 2 IOp.m.301-61 61-5
                14. 1 1 45 a.m. 300-99 57-0            [303-15 Sea-beach.
                                                          299-05 Sea-beach; on red sandstone
                14. 12 05 p.m. 301-23 59-0
                                                       1 297-06 Field S. of the town.
Lorh Ranza . .  16. 9 30 a.m. 30276 58-0                 296-01 Grounds of the Castle.

                16. 9 50 a.m. 303-39 (!0-0

Campbclton...   17. 7 20 a.m. 298-30 50-0

                18. 2 40 p.m. 297-03 56-4

                18. 3 10 p.m. 298-42 54-4

                Sept. 21. 11 10 a.m. 295-28 49-6
                Oct. 3. 9 25 a.m. 291-02 44-5
Dublin                                                               f Provost's garden. Tri-

                       3. 9 45 a.m. 291-24 44-5        J~            1 nity College.

                       3. 2 55 p.m. 291-37 49-6         |

                       4.  1  15  p.m.  i291-73  53-5             1
                                                 i

   From the near agreement in the respective times of vibration
of the cylinders in Dublin in July and in October, we may infer
that the magnetic state of each cylinder had experienced little,
if any, alteration in the interval ; an inference which is also
confirmed for a portion of the interval by the correspondence in
the times of vibration at Helensburgh in July and September.
The times of vibration in Dublin at the two periods referred to
are as follows, viz.

              Cyl. L (a).                               s            Cyl. L (b).

        July 24 and 25                           243-47               292-96
                                                 243*92               292-21
        October 3 and 4

Whence it would appear, if we ought to draw any conclusion

from such small differences, that Cyl. L. (a) had sustained a

Lsmall decrease of magnetism in the interval, and Cyl. (A), on

the contrary, a small increase, and very nearly to a proportionate
amount. However this may be, we cannot err materially in
regarding the mean of the times of vibration of each cylinder in

July and October, as its rate in Dublin comparable with the

rates observed at the different stations in Scotland. The fol
lowing Table has been computed accordingly. The first of the
three columns under the general head of "Horizontal Intensity,"
expresses the ratio of the horizontal force at each station to
Lunity in Dublin, deduced               from the       times of      vibration  oLf  Cyl.
                                        the ratios     deduced       from Cyl.
    («) ; the next column                                                            (A) ;
          third column                                               from a mean
and the                           contains the ratios      deduced
          v. -- 1836.
   vol..                                      i
114 SIXTH REPORT -- 1836.

of the two cylinders. The first column, under the general head
/of "Total Intensity," shows the ratios of the total force derived
from the mean horizontal component by the formula                                                       =       ^   sec       8   »
                                                                                                                ^,  gec       g/

8' and h! being the dip and horizontal intensity in Dublin, and 8
and h the same quantities at another station. The final column
contains the values in the preceding column multiplied by

1-0208.

                                                                      Table VI.

Magnetic Intensity deduced by the Horizontal Cylinders.

Station.                                                               Horizontal Intensity.  Observed      Total Intensity.
                                                                                                 Dip.   Dublin=l. London=l
                                                             Cyl. L. (a). CyL L. (b). Mean.

Dublin                                                       1 0000   10000   10000           70 59-4   10000   1-0208
                                                             09422    0 9381  0-9402          72 14-2   10038
CHaemlebnrsabyurg.h... ..                                    0 9516   0-9467  0-9491                            1-0247
                                                             0-9521   0-9498  0-9510          71 58-7   0-9992  10200
Loch Gilphead                                                09180    0 9175                  72 05-2   10071
Tobetmorie . .                                               0-916!)  0-9200  0-9178          73 05-2   10276   1-0280
                                                                      0 9278  0-9184          72 59-7   10229   10490
LAortcohruSilsahpin.... ..                                   0-9309   0-9438  0-9293          72 40-4   10164   10442
                                                                      0-9263  0-9458                    10103
Glencoe . . .                                                0-9478   0 9314  0-9258          72 14-7   10102   1-0375
                                                             09253    0-9150  09292           72 37-9           10313
IFnovretrnAeusgsu.s.t.u.s                                    09270    0-9248  0-9160          72 44-0   1-0197  1-0312
                                                             0-9170   0-9306  0-9244          72 53-1   1-0138
Inverness ....                                               0-9239   0-9434  0-9302          72 44-0           1-0409
                                                             0-9299   09345                   72 38-4   1-0144  1-0349
Gordon Castle                                                0-9420   0-9456  0-9427          72 23-2   10155
                                                             0-9335   0-9660  0-9340          72 19-5           1-0355
Alford    ....                                               0-9429   0-9402  0-9442          72 11-7   1-0148  10366
Bracmar                                                      0-9648           0-9654          71 52-2   10020   10359
                                                             0-9409   0-9457  0-9406                    1-0058  1-0228
KNMDBielreraykwlirbarpoguldsoorerygwthrie..................  09420    0-9715  0-9439          72 14-9   10105
                                                             0-9690                           72 08-5           10267
Helensburgh. .                                                        0-9430  0-9702          71 34-4   1-0049  1-0315
LochRanza..                                                  0-9719   0-9316  0-9719          71 31-2
CStarmanbrealetorn......                                     0-940G           0-9418          72 14-2   1-0026  1-0258
                                                             0-9310   0-9574  0-9313          72 20-4           1-0234
Dublin                                                       0-9553   0-9701  0-9563                    0-9997  10205
                                                             0-9681   0-9768  0-9691          71 535
                                                                      10000                             0-9987  1-0195
                                                             0-9710           0-9739          71 40-9   1-0055  1-0264
                                                             1 0000           10000                     10002   10210
                                                                                              71 36-9   1-0022  10230
                                                                                                                10252
                                                                                              70 59-4   1-0043
                                                                                                        10058   1-0267
                                                                                                        10000   10208

  The observed dips in Table VI .                                             are the same as those in Table I.
                                                                              Dublin, at which station I have
with the exception of the dip in
availed myself, in addition to my own observations, of the nu
merous results which Mr. Lloyd has obtained with several dip
ping needles at the same spot where the cylinders were vibrated.
An abstract of all these observations from which the dip in
             MAGNETICAL OBSERVATIONS IN SCOTLAND.                 115

Dublin is derived for the month of September 1836, is given
in the subjoined Table.

Date.        Needle.      Dip I Reduced to Sept. 1836.     Mean.
                      observed.

Sept. 1834.     T.    71 03-8
Sept. 1834.           71 051
             IV.

Mean                  71  04  1 =70   58-3(16            
                                               obs.)

Sept. 1835.    I.     71 03-5
Sept. 1835.  IV.      71 02-0

Mean                  71 030 =71 000 (18 obs.)

Nov. 1835. IV.        71 01-3 =70 58-8 (3 obs.)                         fallowing
                                                                            weight to
April 1836. IV.       71 021                                                each result,
                      70 59-5
April 1836. III.      71 00-8 =70 59-8 (8 obs.)         >70° 59'-4T Pedorttoiotnhe

         Mean                                                           1 number of
                                                                         (.observations

July 1836.   S(2)     71 01-12
Oct. 1836.   S(2)     71 00 75

Mean                  71 00-93 =71 00-9 (4 obs.) .

In Table VI. we have twenty-five results to be combined by
off,the method of least squares, in order to determine the most
probable values           x, and y. The equations are analogous to
those already described in treating of the statical results. We
obtain from thein the three final equations

-+           -7422    =   -+7235//''  -73 x      4-lly     (A.)
             -1816    =
+                                     + 35681  x+ 131l7y   (B.)
             5-9458 = + 11/' + 13117 x + 66193 y           (C.)

- -From which we find by elimination
* x = + -0001094                          y = -0001165
M = 46° 47-5; r = -0001598 ; and/' = -0301.

   The intensity at the central position (lat. 56° 27', long. 4°
25' W.) is consequently 1-0301 to unity in London. The iso-
dynainic line passing through it makes an angle of 46° 47''5
with the meridian ; and the isodynamic lines corresponding to
differences of intensity amounting to -005 are at intervals apart
of 31-28 geographical miles.
                                      i2
11C SIXTH REPORT 1836.

   By the statical method we have found the intensity at the
central station T0326 ; the angle with the meridian made by the
isodynamic line 46° 15'*5 ; and the intervals between isodyna-
mic lines representing differences of intensity of '005, to be
32"29 geographical miles.
   The agreement of the two methods cannot be considered

otherwise than as very remarkable. They have no element in
common except the dip, which, whilst it is very influential in the
horizontal method, might be many minutes in error without
sensibly affecting the results by the statical method. The close
agreement of two methods, which are thus independent of each
other, forms a strong mutual corroboration.
off,By substituting in the original equations the values thus
found    x, and ty, we may compute the intensity assigned by

the combination of the observations at all the stations to the
geographical position of each station in particular, and we shall
thus see what degree of accordance the observations at each
station exhibit, with the indications of the combined results. The

following table shows the differences between the observed and
the combined result at each station by both the horizontal and

statical methods ; the sign + signifies that the observed inten
sity is in excess ; -- that it is in defect.

                           Table VII.

       Differences cf Observed and Computed Results.

       Station.  Horizontal. Statical.    Station.   Horizontal. Statical.

Loch Slapin ... + ·0029          + ·0007  -iii-kii .biujli ... -·0025  -·0034
Golspie          -·0042          -0039                                 + 0011
                                 + ·0080  Campbclton ... -0013         +·0004
Tobermorie ... + ·0118           +·0012                         -0071  -·0033

                 + ·0020         -·0027                                +0020
                        + ·0017  +·¥033                                +·0033
Fort Augustus . -·0045                               + 0014            +·0005
                 -·0027          -0048               +·0002            +·0014
                                 -·0013              +·0044
Gordon Caatle... +·0033                   Kdinhurgh  +·0044            -·0004
Loch Gilphead . -·0032           -0033                                 -·0010
                                                     +·0036
                 + -00.ri2                           +·0027            +·0015
                                                     + ·0021           + 0008
                 -- ·0037

                 -·OOliS

                 -0070

   We have seen that each of the two methods gives, when
taken separately, general results agreeing in a very remarkable
manner with those of the other method. When however we
examine the contents of the preceding table, we remark that in
the horizontal method much greater differences appear between
the observed and the combined results at single stations, than is
             MAGNETICAL OBSERVATIONS IN SCOTLAND.    117

the case in the statical method. This accords with the antici
pations of the inventor of the statical method. And when it is con
sidered that an error of a single minute in the observation of the
dip will occasion, in so high a magnetic latitude as Scotland, a cor
responding error of "0009 in the deduction of the total intensity
from the horizontal vibrations, it must be acknowledged that the
statical method possesses a great advantage in such latitudes, in
Ibeing free from this source of liability to error.
                                                     must add,
Ihowever, that do not attribute the discrepancies observable in
the results of the horizontal method, beyond those of the statical,
altogether to defects inherent in the horizontal method. The ne
cessity of economizing time obliged me frequently to keep the
dipping needle and the horizontal cylinders employed at the same
time, when it was of course necessary to place them several yards
apart. In a country so subject to local magnetic disturbance
as Scotland, it is not too much to say, that it might not always
follow that the dip should have been precisely the same at the

Itwo spots of observation. I have already noticed that at the

two sides of the harbour at Loch Scavig observed a difference
of above 5° of dip ; and although that was no doubt an extreme
case and one of very rare occurrence, it can scarcely be sup
posed but that irregularities do occur in a minor degree not

·infrequently. In strict justice to the horizontal method, the

cylinders, in countries liable to such local influences, should

always be vibrated precisely in the same spot where the dip
is observed. The place of observation of the two methods
not being                                    the instruments to actual
differences  the  same, may also    subject
              of  intensity apart  from the   m.-ignetic direction. In

such cases the results may be true measures, though differing
from each other; but discrepancies of this nature should
not exceed the limit of the local irregularities of intensity,
the existence of which we may infer from the statical results.
When they are considerably greater, a more probable mode of
accounting for them is that the horizontal needle was affected
by a different dip from that acting on the dipping needle and
used in the reduction. In all such cases the total intensities
derived from the horizontal vibrations are of course in error.

It has been shown by the corresponding table of the dip obser

vations that there were seven stations at which the observed
dip differed from the dip computed by a combination of the oh- *
servations at all the stations to an amount varying from 14'*5 to

25'' 1. At six of these stations there were also horizontal and
statical observations of the force. Had the differences between
the observed and computed dips in these cases been errors of
observation, and not actual irregularities in the magnetic direc-
118 SIXTn REPORT -- 1836.

tion from some disturbing cause, the discrepancies between the
two methods of measuring the force must have been far greater
than they are. The error in the deduction of the force by the
horizontal method which would be occasioned by an error of
observation of 14' of dip, would have greatly exceeded any dis
crepancy existing between the horizontal and statical results in
the above table. Considerations of this kind are important in
their                      proper method of      dveibdruactiinogns.theIflidniesscreof
total    bearing   on the  series of horizontal
        intensity  from a

pancies in the observations of dip arise chiefly from instrumen
tal errors or errors of observation, the dip resulting from the
calculation of least squares               be used in    the reduction
of the horizontal observations.  should   on the other  hand, the pro

                                     If,

bability of local disturbance is greater than of instrumental
error, the dips actually observed should be employed in the re
duction. Were the dips due to the geographical positions
employed in the reduction of the Scottish observations instead
of the dips actually observed at the stations, the discrepancies
in the resulting intensities would be increased to such an ex
treme amount, as to leave no doubt that, in the case of the Scot

tish observations at least, the observed dips are those which
ought to be employed ; and it also follows, that in countries
subject to such magnetic irregularities, the dipping-needle should
be regarded as an indispensable accompaniment to the horizontal

cylAinldl etrhse. observations made with the statical needle have been
included in the calculations, as well as all those with the horizon

tal cylinders, except the vibrations at Loch Scavig, which were
evidently affected by some very great cause of irregularity, and
their introduction into the calculation could only be productive
of error. Loch Scavig, with its hypersthene rocks and its trap
dykes, is evidently a very unsuitable place for magnetic observa
tions.

The general results from the statical and horizontal methods
are so nearly the same, that either might be used for the chart
with scarcely a perceptible difference. Perhaps the statical re
sults may be considered as entitled to a preference, and they have

been employed accordingly.
   Until the relation which the isodynamic lines in Scotland
bear to the magnetic intensity in England shall be more

thoroughly and satisfactorily ascertained, by a connected series
of observations comprehending the whole of Great Britain, it

has been deemed preferable to give the Scottish lines no other
designation in the chart than that which expresses their relation
to each other, thus limiting the conclusion to what is strictly war
MAGNETICAL OBSERVATIONS IN SCOTLAND.  1 19

ranted by the observations recorded in this paper. Accordingly,
the line passing through the central station, and making with its
meridian an angle of 46° 15'-5, is designated simply as unity for
Scotland ; and the other lines, at intervals of 32*29 geographical
miles, are entitled + -015, +,010, + -005, --'005, --'010, --"015,
according to the values of the intensity which they represent
relatively to the central line.

   The difference between the deductions in Ireland and in Scot

land, in regard to the isodynamic lines, is considerable, and
apparently too great to be supposed due to an actual difference

in the lines themselves. It will probably be elucidated by future

observations.
                                      121

Report on North American Zoology. ByJoun Richardson',
                            M.D., F.R.S., 8fc.

The following paper having reference to the animals of only a
single zoological province, bears the same relation to the valuable
                           the Association by the Rev. Leonard Jcnyns,
"reOponrtthemapdreesetnot  State of Zoology"1," that a local fauna does to
a work embracing the whole animal kingdom. As it leaves un
touched the principles of systematic arrangement, structure,
physiology, and in fact the fundamental doctrines of the science,
the only subjects coming properly within its scope appear to
be, an enumeration of the animals inhabiting North America ;
the peculiarities of the fauna which they constitute when con

trasted with those of the other zoological provinces into which the
earth may be divided ; and the geographical range of groups
or individual species, with the circumstances which tend to influ
ence its extent, such as the configuration of the land, climate,
vegetation, Sfc. The only author who has written on the latter
branch of the subject is Mr. Swainson, to whom we are indebted
for an enumeration of the generic forms peculiar to North Ame

rica f. No separate treatise has hitherto been devoted to the
laws which regulate the distribution of animals in North Ame
rica, and the geographical limits of each species have been
very imperfectly pointed out in the systematic works containing
descriptions of the animals. Hence, as the reports called for
by the British Association are designed to exhibit the present
state of science, and not for the publication of new facts or the
mere enunciation of the reporter's opinions, portions only of the
outline of a complete fauna will be traced in the following
sketch ; but the purpose of the report will be answered if it
serves to point out the gaps in North American zoology which
require to be filled up, and to direct the attention of travellers
and resident naturalists to those investigations which are im-

· Vide Report of the Fourth Meeting, &c. London, 1S35, p. 1 43. Mr. Jcnyns
limits his report to "those researches which of late years have tended to
elucidate the characters and affinities of the larger groups of animals, and
thereby to advance our knowledge of their natural arrangement." The great
extent of the field  of inquiry   : th"usEnmaurnkemdoto, ulta  will appear by a quotation from
the first zoologist  of the age                                mclhode naturelle snail loute la

science, et chaqucpas      qu'on  luifaitfaire  approchc       la science de son but." (Cuv.,
Reg. An., i. 10.)
t Published in the Encyclopedia of Geography; aud in his volume on tliu
Geography  and                        Animals,  forming part of Lardncr's  Cyclo
pedia.          Classification    of
                   132 SIXTH REPORT 1836.

              portant to the interests of science. A correct knowledge of the

                 species is clearly the first point to be attained, being indispen
                 sable for the due discussion of the other subjects embraced by
                 a local fauna; but though this has formed the chief aim of the
                works hitherto devoted to North American zoology, great un
                 certainty still exists as to many species, the original descrip
                 tions being so obscure that they do not enable us to recognise
                 the animals ; and even the commonest quadrupeds, about whose
                 identity, when found in certain localities, there can be no doubt,
                 have in very few instances, indeed, been satisfactorily compared
                 with the analogous ones inhabiting distant districts of America

             or belonging to the old world. A critical review of the various

                 opinions entertained by zoologists respecting the several species,
                  (such as that which the Prince of Musignano has instituted in
                 his observations on Wilson's Ornithology,) would be obviously of
                great utility, but want of space excludes it from this report,
                wherein the Mammalia alone will be noticed in detail. The pre
                 ference is given to this order, partly because, the number of spe
                 cies being small, individual notices can be compressed within
                 reasonable limits, but chiefly because opinions are more various
                 concerning the quadrupeds than respecting the contents of the

              other orders. A sketch of the labours of the different authors

                 who have brought North American zoology to its present state
                 might have been introduced, but its utility would not compensate
                 for the space it would occupy, and the task has been already to
                 a certain extent executed in the introductions to the several vo
                lumes of the Fauna Boreali- Americana. The reader is therefore
                referred to that work, to the American Natural History of
                Dr. Godman, the Fauna Americana of Dr. Harlan, and espe
                cially to Pennant's Arctic Zoology, which contains ample re
                 ferences to all the older writers. Fischer's Synopsis Matnmalium
                is a good book of reference for the published species of Mam
                 malia up to the year 1828.

                     Previous to entering upon the details of the report, it is ne
                cessary to state that in it the term of North America is re
                 stricted to that part of the continent which lies north of the
                 tropic of Cancer, thus including New Mexico, the Peninsulas of
                 Florida and California, and as nearly as may be meeting the
                 limits of the very different and peculiar South American zoolo

             ftgohiecllaoNlwoprrttohhveeinorcnpei.nainodnIsnSooucfotPhnresoridfneesArsimnogrerLMiciceahxntiecfonasutnacasienthm*eeearetngdainoMdn rm.iniSnwwglhaeii,cnh-I

                       · " Erliiutcrungcii der Nachrichten des Franc. Hernandez von den vierfua-
                   sigen Thicren Ncuspanicns, von Herr Lichtenstcin." Gelesen in der Aka-
                   demic der Wissenscliaften am 28 Jun. 1827. Berlin.

V
ON NORTH AMERICAN ZOOLOGY;                       123

son *, and dissent from those who consider the Isthmus of Da-

rien as a zoological boundary f.

Physical Geography.

The great range of the Rocky Mountains forms a most re
markable, feature in the physical aspect of North America.
Viewed as a continuation of the Cordilleras de los Andes of the

southern continent, and extending from the Straits of Magalhaes
to the Arctic sea through 120° of latitude, it is by far the longest
mountain chain in the world. In Mexico it divides into three
branches; the western one passing through the province of
Guadalaxara to the Rio Gila ; the eastern one extending through
the Texas towards the confluence of the Missouri and Missis
sippi, where it terminates after assuming the appellation of the
Ozark Mountains ; and the highest or central branch con
tinuing northwards to between the 29th and 30th parallels of
latitude, where it is linked to the lateral forks by connecting
spurs, or as Humboldt names them "counter forts." Within
this mountain system, between the parallels of 19° and 24J°, lie
immense table lands, elevated to the height of 6000 or 7000
feet above the sea. The central Cordillera of Mexico has a di
rection of N. 10° W. from the 25th to the 38th degree of latitude ;
and from thence the course of the ridge is with very slight de

flections about N. 28° W. to the 69th parallel and 138th meri
dian, near the mouth of the Mackenzie, where the Rocky Moun
tains terminate. Travellers, who have crossed the mountains at

various parts, inform us that they are divided into several pa
rallel ridges; this is the case near the sources of the Rio del
Norte; again between the 37th and 41st parallels; in the 58th
parallel ; and lastly, in the 64th, where according to the report
of the fur-hunters thirteen successive ridges must be crossed
before the western declivity is attained. Many of the peaks of
the Rocky Mountains rise to a considerable altitude : thus,
Spanish Peak, lat. 37° 20* N. ; James Peak, 38° 38'; and Bighorn,
lat. 40°, have been ascertained by officers of the United States
to be from 10,000 to 12,000 feet in height. Mount Hooker and
Mount Brown, in the 52nd and 53rd parallels, were stated by the
late Mr. Douglas, but from less perfect
                                         data,   to be respectively
15,690 and 15,900 feet above the sea.            manifest that ani
                                         It is
mals may travel along the acclivities of a mountain chain whose
summits enter within the limits of perpetual snow, from the

   · Encyclopedia of Geography, 1834; Geography  and Classification of Ani-
nimalt, by William Swainson, Esq., 1835.

   t Penny Cyclopaedia, art. America.
124 sixth riiiroiiT -- 1836.

arctic circle down to the tabic lands of Mexico, almost without
varying their climate ; and that were the altitude of the ridge
between the tropics great enough and sufficiently continuous to
join the temperate zones of North and South America, we might
expect to find many species of quadrupeds and birds common
to both ; but it so happens that in the Isthmus of Panama, nearly
at the place where the elevation for the accomplishment of such
an union would require to be greatest, the Cordilleras are de
pressed to a height not exceeding 500 or 600 feet, and still
further south there is a plain extending  from sea to sea between
Rio Naipipi and the Gulf of Cupica*.
                                          It is not, however, as
Humboldt has remarked, the altitude of the mere peaks which
is to form an element in an inquiry of this kind, but rather the
heights of the backs of the mountains over which the passes
from one side of the chain to the other arc usually made. But
we have no positive information respecting the height of the
passes of the Rocky Mountains, and even the altitude of the
base of the range above the sea, which forms a material item in
the computation of the absolute elevation of the peaks, has not

been calculated from barometric measurement, but merely by

vague estimates of the descent of rivers. Major Long assigns
to this base a height of 3000 feet, while Lieutenant Pike with
less probability more than doubles that altitude.
The Rocky Mountains are bounded on the Atlantic side by vast
plains, having a gradual inclination to the eastward, and forming,
from the 50th degree of latitude down to the Gulf of Mexico, a
water-shed traversed by the Red River, the Arkansas, Missouri,

and Mississippi. A zone to the westward of the latter river

about 200 miles broad is well wooded, but the remainder con
sists of sandy and naked prairies, whose surface though gently
undulated presents as few landmarks to guide the traveller on
his way as he would meet with in the middle of the occanf.
Between the 50th and 54th parallel lie plains of similar
character, crossed by the forks of the Saskatchewan, which falls
into Hudson's Bay; and still further north the Peace River
flows towards the Arctic sea through a fertile tract generally
level, and inclosing portions of prairie land, but more en
croached on by pine forests than the southern plains. The
valley of the Mackenzie beyond the Cist parallel, instead of
being separated from the Rocky Mountains by an intervening
level tract of land, skirts their bases until it issues in the Arctic
sea. We thus perceive that to the eastward of the Rocky Moun-

   · Humboldt.
   t Thi' eastern banks of the Mississippi air in general thickly wooded, but in
the State of Illinois there arc some considerable tracts of prairie lands.
OX NORTH AMERICAN ZOOLOGY.  125

tains there is an immense longitudinal valley extending from
the Arctic sea to the Gulf of Mexico, crossed by no dividing
ridges of note, but forming three separate water-sheds; the
southerly one having, in addition to a general easterly declina
tion to the Mississippi, also a descent from the 49th parallel
towards the outlet of the latter river in the Gulf of Mexico ;
the northerly one having an inclination towards the Arctic sea,
commencing between the. 53rd and 54th degrees of latitude
and the central one, whicli is necessarily the most elevated,
having merely an easterly descent towards Hudson's Bay. The
valley or plain is widest beween the 40th and 50th parallels,
where it includes 15 degrees of longitude. This configuration
of the land evidently gives great facilities for the range of
 herbivorous quadrupeds from north to south, and is the line of
route pursued by many species of migratory birds ; and while
 the Mackenzie furnishes a channel by which the anadroinous
 fish of the Arctic sea can penetrate 10 degrees of latitude to
 the southward, the Mississippi offers a route by which those
 of the Gulf of Mexico can ascend far to the north.

     There are no mountain chains to the eastward of the Missis
 sippi at all approaching to the Rocky Mountains in magnitude,
 the most remarkable of the existing ones being the Alleghanies or
 Apaluchian ranges, which have a breadth of about one hundred

 miles, and rise from 2000 to 3000 feet above the sea, springing
 from a base elevated 1000 or 1200 feet. They extend from Ala
 bama and the northern confines of Georgia nearly to the banks

 of the St. Lawrence, their general direction being about N.E.
 by N., that is, nearly parallel to a line drawn from Carolina to

 Nova Scotia through the principal promontories of the Atlantic
 coast, and forming an angle of five points with the Rocky Mount

 ain chain. The strip of country intercepted between the Al

 leghanies and the Atlantic, undulating and rising moderately to
 wards the base of the mountains and generally very level near

 the coast, has a width of 200 miles in the Carolinas. In Georgia

 the low land becomes broader, and sweeping to the westward
 round the south end of the chain it joins the valley of the
  Mississippi. To the southward the level is continued into the
  peninsula of Florida, and this tongue of land must be noticed
  as influencing the distribution of animal life, not only by its
  southerly extension, amounting to five degrees of latitude, but
  also by its forming a barrier to the direct passage of fish from
  the Atlantic coast to the same parallel in the bottom of the
  Gulf of Mexico, and thus partly accounting for the very peculiar
  ichthyology of the Mississippi and its tributaries as contrasted
  with that of the eastern rivers.
  126 SIXTH REPORT -- 1836.

     The whole northern shore of the Gulf of Mexico is low and
  swampy, and from the very gradual shoaling of the water, in
 approachable by ships, except at the mouths of rivers. The
 coast preserves much the same character on the Atlantic side
 up to Virginia, being almost everywhere skirted by low sandy
 islands, inclosing extensive lagoons and winding channels, into
 which numerous large rivers open, and permit the access of
 anadromous fish to the foot of Allcghanies. In the middle and
 eastern districts of the United States the Atlantic plain is nar
  rowed by an incurvature of the coast and the extensive encroach
 ments of the Chesapeake, Delaware, and Long Island Sounds,

 to whose muddy beaches vast numbers of wtiter-fowl resort. A

 narrow valley, having a direction of N. by E., runs from the last-
 mentioned sound to join the transverse basin of the St. Law
 rence: it is occupied on one side by the River Hudson and
 on the other by Lake Champlain and the River Richelieu*.

     The British Atlantic territory is also deeply indented by the
 Bay of Fundy, remarkable for the rise of its titles, and the extent
 of its mud banks exposed at low water. The island of New
 foundland, viewed merely in reference to its physical geography,
 appears as a prolongation of the coast line; in its animal pro
 ductions and vegetation it corresponds with the adjacent coast
of Labrador. Its surface, as well as that of New Brunswick,
 Nova Scotia, and the northern part of the United States, is
considerably varied by hills.

    We have next to notice a great transverse valley, commencing
with the mediterranean sea or gulf of the St. Lawrence, con
tinued first to the south-westward behind the Alleghanies in the
channel of the river St. Lawrence and basins of Lakes Erie
and Ontario, and afterwards more directly to the west by the
valleys of Lakes Huron, Michigan, and Superior, from the
two latter of which there are communications by low tracts of
land with the great basin of the Mississippi. Canals have been
executed and more are projected in the Canadas and United
States for connecting the several systems of water communica
tion, by means of which an interchange of fish from widely
diverging rivers will hereafter take place.

    The interior prairie lands lying to the northward of the great
Canada lakes have on their eastern boundary a well-wooded,
but swampy zone of nearly level limestone strata analogous to
the valley of the Mississippi in its general direction, and having
on or near its eastern border an almost continuous water-course,

   · A recent traveller states that the only instances of tidal waters of sufficient
depth to carry large ships crossing primitive mountain chains, arc those of the
Hudson and St. Lawrence. Vide Stuart's Three Years in America.
         ON NOllTH AMERICAN ZOOLOGY.                            127

which may be traced on the map as the River and Lake Wini-
peg, lower part of the Saskatchewan, Beaver Lake, Mississippi,
Athabascow River and Lake, Slave River and Great Slave Lake,
from whence Mackenzie's River issuing sweeps round the
north end of the zone, and approaches the base of the Rocky
Mountains within the Arctic circle. This longitudinal water
course lying nearly at a right angle with the transverse valley
of the St. Lawrence cuts off a large north-east corner of the
continent, including the Canadas, Labrador, Rupert's Land,
and the more northern districts. Though this tract, which
equals Europe in extent, has a greatly varied surface and in
cludes some high groups of hills, it possesses no continuous
mountain ranges of great elevation, nor indeed any peaks which
reach the limits of perpetual snow. Its lakes are numerous
and often large, the proportion of water to land being great.
In a zoological point of view the district admits of being divided
into  tnwaomepdorttihoens"     the northern one,  destitute of
fore                        :  barren grounds,"   lies beyond   trees and there
                                                                a line running
W.N.W. from Hudson's Bay in the 60th parallel to Great
Bear Lake in the 65th. The southerly portion is wooded, antl
although it embraces many degrees of latitude it presents a
surprising uniformity everywhere in its ferine inhabitants.
The great inland sea of Hudson's Bay, occupying the centre of
the whole north-east district, (the lands north of Hudson's
Strait being considered as part of it,) materially influences its
temperature, and consequently its capability of supporting animal
life. The south and south-west shores of this bay are flat and
swampy with muddy beaches, whereon vast flocks of water
fowl halt for a time in the course of their autumn migrations
from the northern breeding-places to their southerly winter

haunts.
On the Pacific side of the Rocky Mountains we have to the
northward an expanded wing, as it were, of the continent pro
longed by the peninsula of Alaska and the Aleutian Islands,
and similar in geological and zoological characters, as far as has
been ascertained, to the eastern barren grounds. Further to
the south the coast line approaches the Rocky Mountains, but
it recedes again in Upper California; while Lower or old Cali
fornia runs out in a peninsular form like Florida, intercepting
the Gulf of Cortes or the Vermilion Sea, which though much
narrower than the Gulf of Mexico extends nearly as far north
wards. The Pacific coast is flanked at some distance by a

range termed by Humboldt the" Californian Maritime Alps ".
These are in general nearly parallel to the Rocky Mountains,
and become more and more elevated as they proceed northwards
128 SIXTH REPORT 1836.

from the comparatively low peninsula of California until they
attain an elevation of 9000 feet opposite Cape Mendocino in
the 40th degree of latitude. Near the 45th parallel, Mount Hood*
rises 16,000 feet, and in the 46th stands Mount St. Helens,
which is 14,000 feet high ; the Columbia flows between these
lofty peaks. Mount Fairweather in latitude 59° has an altitude
of 14,000 feet, and Mount St. Elias in the 60th parallel at
tains to 17,000. These peaks are volcanic, and in the Aleutian
Islands there is another volcanic mountain 7000 feet high. The
Californian Alps are divided into ridges by long narrow valleys,
and between them and the Rocky Mountains lies an extensive
prairie tract, 700 miles long, from 100 to 200 wide, destitute
of water, and very similar in character to those which lie on
the eastern side of the ridge just named t- Between the forks
of the Columbia there are also wide prairie lands covered with
artemisicB, and nourishing several interesting and large species
of tetrao.

   The mountain system of Russian America is unknown. The
peninsula of Alaska and the Aleutian Isles, extending towards
Asia, separate from the Pacific the sea of Kamtschatka, which
nourishes several fish of very peculiar forms and some singular

cetaceous animals.

                                          Climate.

Many precise and long- continued meteorological observations
are required to be made in various districts of North America
before a general view of the climate having any pretensions to
accuracy can be offered. Abstracts of temperatures already
                 expressed in the subjoined table,   which is con
recorded   are   a model furnished by Humboldt.
structed  after                                     It is preceded

by a few remarks, which are either simply explanatory, or which
detail facts not readily expressible in a tabular form, yet of im
portance to the naturalist who investigates the distribution of
animals in North America.

    · Dr. Gairdner, an excellent naturalist now employed in a medical capacity
on the banks of the Columbia by the Hudson's Bay Company, lias executed a
map, from which 1 have extracted the following positions of the most remarka
ble peaks of the Californian Alps that have received names. Mount Pit,
41° ISO' N.; Mount Sliasty, 43° 16' N.; Mount Vancouver, 44° 18' N.; Mount
Hood, 45° 16' N.; Mount St. Helens, 40° 05' N.; Mount Rainier, 46°57' N.;
and Mount Baker, 48° 27' N.

   t Dr. Coulter states that the Californian Alps form an union with the Rocky

Mountains north of the 42nd parallel, about the summit level dividing the head
waters of the Columbia from those which fall into the Bay of St. Francisco.
(Geogr. Tr., v. G8.)Tlie '· counterfort" here alluded to, hems iu the Snake Kiver
or xouth branch of Columbia and limits the range of the bison westwards. The
difficulty of traversing this connecting ridge is well described by Washington
Irving in his recent work of Astoria.
             ON NORTH AMERICAN ZOOLOGY.                                                  129

      Writers on climate have remarked that the eastern coasts of
continents in the northern hemisphere have a lower mean tem
perature than the western coasts. This is certainly true in the
higher latitudes of North America, for the winters are much
milder and the vegetation more luxuriant to the westward of the
Rocky Mountains*. On the coast of Hudson's Bay down to
the 56th parallel the subsoil is perpetually frozen, and further
inland in the 50th degree of latitude the mean annual heat is
only 36° F. and the ground is covered with snow for more than
six months in the year. Even in the 45th parallel on the north
side of the Canada lakes the frost is continuous for more than
six months, and the grallatorial and most of the granivorous
birds can find no means of support during the winter season ;
consequently the migration of the feathered tribes is much more
general than in the countries of Europe lying under the same
parallels. Occasional frosts occur as low down on the Atlantic
coast as the confines of Florida, where during the late war
several British soldiers were severely frostbitten; this was
near the 30th parallel, or that of Morocco, Cairo, and Suez. In
Mexico and Old California there are also sharp frosts even on
the low grounds, from local causes. The severity of the winters
in the 40th parallel and even lower on the Atlantic coast of North
America destroys many evergreens which flourish all the year
in Scotland, 18 degrees further north.
The decrement of mean annual heat on an increase of lati
tude is greater in North America than in Europe, and in the
former country there is a wider difference between the summer
and winter temperatures ; that is, the isothseral lines in their
passage through America curve convexly towards the pole and

the isocheimal lines towards the equator.
   Vegetation (the growth of forests in particular) is more in
fluenced by the amount and duration of heat than by the severity
of the winter cold. In countries whose mean heat is below 63 ,
spring, or the renewal of vegetation, takes place, as Humboldt
has shown, in that month which attains a mean temperature of
                                                              their
33° or 34°;  toan5d2°d.ecidItuofuosllotwresesfrpoumsh   out   that     leaves when       the
mean rises                                             this            the sum of        the

temperatures of the months which attain the latter heat furnish
a measure of the strength and continuance of vegetation. On
the eastern coast at Winter Island, lying in latitude 64^°, no
month of the year reaches a mean heat of 52°; but in the in-

                                             i

   · Geologists may find it worth while to inquire how far the superior climate
of the Pacific coast is influenced by the active volcanos of the maritime Alps.
                                             Rocky Mountains
vol.Norecent vv.o--lcan1o8s36e.xist  in the                   or more  eastern  ranges.
                                                     k
1,'JO SIXTH REPORT -- 1836.

terior at Fort  Enterprise and      Fort Franklin,        in 64^°  and 65°,
there are two   such months.        In latitude 45°      near the  middle of

the continent there are five, in latitude 35° there are nine, and
towards the southern extremity of Louisiana, in 29£° N. lat.,
there are eleven ; while within the tropics the trees are ever

green.
   The gradual ascent of the isothaeral lines as they recede from

Hudson's Bay is shown by the direction of the northern termi
nation of the woods. On the coast near Churchill trees cease
about the 60th parallel ; but at the distance of sixty miles from
the sea their boundary line rises rapidly, and then takes nearly

a straight W.N.W. course, until it reaches Great Bear Lake,

in latitude 65°: still further west on the banks of the Mackenzie
the woods run to 68° N. lat. We do not know the course of the
line of termination of the woods in the interior of Russian Ame
rica. In the elevated lands of New Caledonia the snow is said
to be very deep in winter, and to cause a great scarcity of the
larger ruminating animals ; but near the mouth of the Columbia
there are almost constant rains during that season, with little

frost or snow. There are some peculiarities in the climate of

Lower California and the adjoining parts of Mexico, which are
mentioned in the subjoined note*.

   In the high latitudes of North America, at some distance

from the coast, the intense colds of winter have a very consi
derable, though indirect influence on the summer vegetation,
and consequently on the capabilities of the country for main
taining animal life: for independent of the accumulation of

· In a paper by Dr. Coulter, published in the 5th vol. of the Transactions of
the Geographical    --So"ciTehtye,  the following remarks on the climate of Mexico  and
California occur :                  mercury in a'thermometer shaded from the sun,   but
                                                                                    F.,
within the influence of radiation from an arid plain, frequently stood at 140°       of
but this great heat was owing to temporary and local causes. The surface             of
the country, composed of bare mountains or arid plains completely destitute
water, does not mitigate the cold winds blowing from the Itocky Mountains
lying to the north and north-east ; hence when they blow for any length of
time it freezes even to the south of Pitis, in latitude 29° -N., and in the winter
of 1829-30 it froze at that place every night for nearly two months. On the
table land of Mexico similar cases of cold occur more frequently, as may be
easily conceived from their greater elevation and the same general scarcity of
water. At Veta Grande, Zatatecas, during the month of December, 1825, it
frequently froze hard. The condition of the countries on the confines of Sonora
and California is peculiar, as lying between the summer and winter rains. The
whole rain of Mexico may be said to fall in the summer months, but in Upper
California it rains only in the winter. The summer rains reach the lower part
of Sonora, where they are scanty and irregular, and from Pitis northwards
across the sands it rarely rains at all ; as is also the case in the northern por
tions of Lower California, where the summer rains scarcely prevail to the
northward of Lnretto, the capital." {Lib. cif., p. 70.)
ON NORTH AMERICAN ZOOLOGY.  131

 irritability which may be supposed to take place in trees and
 other plants during their long and complete hybernation, an
 increased effect is given to the sun's radiation by the clearness
 of the atmosphere, brought about in the following manner.
 During the intense winter colds, which are very seldom inter
 rupted by a rise of the temperature to the thawing point, the
 solvent power of the air is so much diminished that almost all
 the moisture is deposited in the form of snow*; but in spring
it is increased by the heating action of a sun that never sets,
 while the ice-covered lakes, bearing so large a proportion to
the land in America, supply it with moisture slowly. The
consequence is unusual clearness of the atmosphere, enabling
the rays of the sun to produce their full effect. On the con
fines of the arctic circle an agreeable warmth is often per
ceived in the sunshine during the months of April and May,
when the temperature of the air in the shade is below zero.
But for this adaptation of the constitution of the atmosphere to
circumstances, the short summer of arctic America would be
insufficient to clear the earth of the accumulated snows of nine
months' winter. Professor Leslie, overlooking the powerful effect
of direct radiation from the sun, and which indeed he could not
know from experimenting only in an insular climate, was led
from theory to fix the mean temperature of the pole at 32° F.,
and to declare that some great error must have pervaded all
the thermometrical observations of Sir Edward Parry and the
other arctic voyagers which showed the mean annual heat of

places lying near the 70th parallel to be below zero. lie has

also described the whole of arctic America as involved in almost
perpetual fogs ; but this is true only of the sea-coast, and even
there merely in some of the summer months, when fogs are
produced by the intermingling currents of air of different tem
peratures, coming from the heated lands, the cooler open water
or chilling- masses of ice in the offing. Most of the winter nights
are beautifully clear, and but for the intense cold, astronomical
observations could be made nowhere in the northern hemi
sphere with more frequency.

   · When air thus deprived of moisture is heated by admission into a warm
room it causes all the wood-work to shrink in an extraordinary manner, and so
dries and chops the cuticle of the human body that it readily becomes electric
by friction with the palm of the hand, till the hairs stand erect, and a peculiar
odour is evolved, like that which may be perceived when the rubber of au
electrifying machine presses hard upon the cylinder.

K2
                 I3<? SIXTH REPORT 1S3C.

                                           Locality.                                                                              Mean

                 Name of Place.             Latitude.                 Loneitudc.    Altitude.          Of the     Of ailt          Of »i*
                                                 N.                         VV.                         Year.    lumtner            winter
                                                                                                                 months.           months,
                                                                                                                 April             October
                                                                                                                 Septem.          to March

                                                                                                                    ber.
                                                                                          0 0000
               i1 Cumana                                      10 27   65 15          Feet.                                   toj81-86
                   Hnvanuah                                   23 10   82 13                             7808
               3 Vera Cruz                                            96 01             60
                                                              19 11                 4330                77-72
                                                                                                        7037
II 9 8 7 (i .'.4 Fort St. Philip (Louis.)                     29 29   89 21           180               69-07     79 29               60 85i
                    Pensacola                                 30 24   87 14         7468                6799      7900
                                                                                                        67-64     7706               5914
                 Baton Rouge                                  32 26   91 18         8823                                             5775
                 Xalappa                                      19 32                   510               64-76     7352
                 Natchez                                      31 28   98 20                             64-40     7075                53-38
                                                                      90 30          564                63-45                        44 09
                                                                                                                  67 16
                 Mexico                                       19 2<i  99 05          240                57-42     68-70              39 5!>
                                                                                                        57-20     64 87
               1(1 Norfolk (Virginia)                         36 58   76 16          600  00            5378      68-67             3744
                                                                                     080                5378                         39-30
                 Annapolis                                    38 58   76 27          600                53 38     61-39              32 65
               12 Toluca (Mexico)                                     99 91',                           5308      61-60
                 Cincinnati                                   19 16                  600                5209     6112                34 42
1II3             New York                                     39 06   82 40          800  0 06 0 00     50 68     63-49              33 36
                                                              40 40   73 58          500                50-36    59-54              31 SI
                                                                                                                 6401               26 90
I.") Philadelphia                                             39 57   75 09          350                47 91    6168               30-97
k; Detroit                                                    42 19   83 00         200                4748      54-89               24 .';<
                                                                                    850                46-47                        26-44
I1s7             Newport                                      41 30   71 18                            45-19     55-31              300O
                 Council Bluffs                               41 25   95 43                            4516      55-9/
                                                                                                                 50-55              24 94
I!) Cambridge ..»                                             42 25   71 03                               4- 12                            12
:u Ft. Constitution (Maine)                                   43 04   70 49                                      39-95                   86
21 Fort Niagara                                               43 15   79 05                            4406      3778
22 Portland                                                   43 38                                    42-49     26-28            -5 46
23 Prairie du Chien..                                         43 03   70 18                                      2771
                                                                      90 52                            41-74     23 64            --930
                                                                                                       4012      2408             -12 59
24 Penetanguishene                                            44 48   80 40                            3201      22-36            -1711
                                                                                                       29 19                      -16 30
25 St. Peter's                                                44 53   93 08               00                                      --I295-67H8|
                                                                                                 4     26-42
Bfl Green Bay                                                 44 40   87 00                            25-30
-V Kasljiort                                                          07 04
                                                              44 44   71 10                            21-47
28 Quebec
29 Mackinac                                                   46 47   85 05                            17-24
                                                              45 51                                    1419

30 Cumberland House              is                           53 57   102 17                             6-84                     78
31 Fort Clupt'wvan                               i            58 43   111 18
32 Nailp                                                                                  00             5-29
                                                             ,57 08    61 20
33 Churchill                                                  59 02    92 05                             3-62
34 Fort Reliance                                                      109 01                             2-20
:::, Fort Franklin                                            62 46   123 13
                                                                                                       -1-71
                                                              65 12

36 Fort Enterprise                                            64 28   113  0I6I   E
·'17 Winter Island                                            66 11    83
38 Felix Harbour                                              70 00                   (i (i a (i B 0i
                                                              73 14   91 53
39 Port Bowen
                                                                      88 55

4(1 Igloolik                                                  69 20          81 53

41 Melville Island                         74 47                           110 48
                                                                      10 to 21° W
42 East Coast of Greenland 70 to 74°

43 Spitzberp-en                            79 21                      10 to 11°
41 North of ditto
                                           81* to 82^° 17+to24i°E

Notf..--The table constructed upon the following authorities:
                                                                                    ;1                                   13, 14, 19,
                                                                                                       1,
                                                                                                             2,
                                                                                                              3,
                                                                                                                   8,
10, 11, 15, 16, 17, 18, 20, 21, 22, 23, 25,26, 27,29, Keating, Exjted. to St. Peter's River,
son, Frankl. First and Second Journ Ed. Phil. Journ., xi. p. -- 37, 39, 40, 41, 44, Parry's
Grtenl.
                                               ON NORTH . iVlERICAN ZOOLOGY ·                                                                     133

Tempera ure.                                                                    J.1Numbei                                               '.
                                                                                     of                                                     2!
                               [Oafututhmrene  Of three                           months 1                                 I
                                months           winter                                                                                         8 §·!]
                                Septem          months,                         which 1Sum* of Means of                                                           !
 Of three       Of three       ber, Oc          Decem                           have a                              their       their               Lowest
    spring      summer           tober,        ber, Jan   Of the       Of the   mean    j1                                              --g"H     tempera            No.
   months.   Junmeo,nthJus.ly  Novem           uary, Fe   warmest      coldest                          ,                                         ture re
   March.       August.            ber.         bruary.    month.      month.           tempera, tempera.'                                         corded.
                                                                                tempera, lures.                                 lures.
April, May                                                                       ture of
                                                                                32° or
                                                                                above.                                                  £

                               o               o                                                                                             1 1'
                                                                                                                                                    0
  o            o               80-24           80-24        o          o                                            o           oO
                                               7124                                                                         :j
8366           82-04           78-98           7196       84-38        7916     12      1062 81-86                                            11                     9 87 6 5 4 3 2 1
               83-30           78-62           54-08      83-84        69-58    12
78-98          81-50           72-75           52-51      81-86        71061    12                                  937 78-08
77-90          82-89           71-22           51-28      84-31        51-59    11
70-56                          68-92                      8404         51-34    10                                  933 77-72
69-80          82-71                                      84-80                 10                                  789 71-66 92 +28
69-40          82-36                                                   4971                                         720 7256 94               1
               69-32                                                                                                                                   20
65-48          7916                                                                                                                               +

                                                                                                                    714 71-44 99

                               6612 48-56 7970                         46-94

  62-91        74-68           66-37           46-51 80-21             43-73                                        622 69-11 88                  +20                10
 5608          73-37           62-60           34-31 79-88             29-28                                        540 6747 92                   +
 4820                                                                           3 3 4 5 4 5 5 5 5 5 5 6 5 6 67 7 8 9                                     8           11
                                                                                                                                                  --                 12
 5414          72-86           54-86             32-90    74-30        30-20                          ';            458 6629                      -- 14              13
 51-26         7916            54-50             29-84
 53-33         7275            5731 1                     80-78        25-34                                        460         6573     89       --17   01          14
 5512          7608            56-31                  i129-77                                                       416         69-37
 4853           71 16                            26-78    75-32        26-30                                                    66-45     91      -10                15
 52-68         7703            57-79             30-87    7760         22-94                                        3!>9                 86
 4766          70-70           5076             2223      7402                                                      363         72-56   104          22               16
 4695          6799            49-82             31-98    79-62        26-30
               68-65                             24-33                                                              376    62-67        86        -32    07           17
 43-82         6766            52-37                      72-86        12-80                                        329    65-83        90        -29                18
               71-76                            2527      69-84                                                     325    64 91        96        -23    9
 45-04         69-91           52-17             22-45                 29-84                                                            94                           19
 4416                          5073              14-93    70-42                                                     337    67-39        90        --
 4113          72-88           46-60                      69-95       20-55                                         320    64-00        93                           20
               69-55                            22-70     7366        2240                                          340    6806         92        -18
 4747          60-85           47-20             11-65    7315                                                      329                 88        -44                21
               68-00                                      7547        1763                                                 65-78
 45-73         6411            44-57             14-67    72-49        620                                          242    6042         86        --44               22
 39-90                         46-32            2160      62-32                                                     318    6360         87                           23
 38-84         67-80                             1418                 21-23                                         249    62-29        97        --5730             24
               62-41           50-95                      73-40         326                                         213                           --5472             25
 3709          48-38                             14-27                   9-40                                              71-13                  -47                26
31-37        --6-80            46 04                      67-34                                                     187    62-40                  --4570!            27
 3J-96                         4502            -4-62                   17'53                                                                      -55                28
 S3-90         50-40           33-49                      73-73        1381                                                                                          29
                               34 08           --3-67                 1053                                                                                           30
  >220         51-71           33 44           --0-60     65-70
              35-00                                       51-80    -1419                                                                                             31
  13-71                                                                                                                                                              32
              40-73                                                 --9-56                                                                                           33
 14 05        34-92                                                -11-20                                                                                            34
              34-63                                                                                                                                                  35
   8-72       36-44                      -20*30           51-10    -2500                                             52 52-10           80                           36
              34-53             21-12 -16-60              55-36    --2378                                           109 54-28
  *65         34-50             19-34 --2303              36-68                 000 0021                                                78                           37
                                                          4457     --29- 12                   00000                                     54                           38
-143                            1467 -2496                3729                                                000 00                                                 39
--52-7149                        726 -2870                4004     -29-97                                                               70                           40
-694                            1058 -2509                42-41    --3313                                                               50
                                 312 -2676                35-29    -2891                                                                50                           41
                               --3-44 -3302               35-98    --32-80                                                              60                           42
                                                          33-13                                                                                                      43
                                                                   -3719                                                                                             44

26, 32, 33, Humboldt, Mem. d'Arcueil, iii. 462, and Ed. Phil. Journ., iii. p. --
             --L3y8o, nR'sosaM'sexSieccoo,ndLoVnody.age182--8,;
                                                                      p.

                                                                             p.
                                                                                                                                                   1;
                                                                                                                                               4,
                                                                                                                                                    5,
                                                                                                                                                         6,
1825;--    7,                                                     ii.      196;--  24,  3P0h, il.31J,ou3r4n, .;3--5,                     36,     Richard-
f'oyaget;                                                        43,   Franklin,   Ed.                                                  12,    Scoresby's
134 SIXTH REPORT 1836.

Although the progress of colonization in the Atlantic States
of North America has considerably restricted the range of the

indigenous quadrupeds, and also somewhat modified the migra
tory movements of several groups of birds, we have no decided
evidence that any one species has become extinct in that country
through the agency of man ; and ample opportunities are still
afforded to the naturalist of making himself acquainted with the
habits and structure of its ferine inhabitants. Whether we re
gard the striking peculiarities of the North American fauna, or
the remarkable coincidence of most of its generic forms with
those of Europe and Asia, and the considerable proportion of
species common to both continents, its study is interesting and
instructive to the general zoologist. But it is to the resi
dent American naturalist that we especially look for a correct
history of the animals which surround him. He has a field
before him in a great part untrodden, and where cultivated, so
overrun with weeds, that the fruit cannot be collected : for the

early settlers having bestowed familiar European names on the
specifically and in some cases generically distinct animals which
they encountered in their new abodes, these were adopted by
the naturalists of the Old World either without examination or
after a comparison of dried and distorted exuviae only. Mis
takes thus originating are still suffered to encumber our system
atic works, and the American zoologist will do good service to
the branch of science which he cultivates,    like the immortal
is
                    is

                                                by
                                                           a
                                                          if,

                                                                                                  a
Cuvier, trusting solely to his own powers of observation, he
sits down on his own shore to dissect, examine, and reason
for himself.

  A correct view of the distribution of animals through the
North American zoological province cannot be given until
several large districts have been much more thoroughly investi
gated. Exclusive of deficiencies in our knowledge of the species
which frequent the country lying to the eastward of the Rocky
Mountains, the whole tract to the westward of that ridge, from
Mexico to the Icy Cape, may be said to be as yet terra incog
nita to zoologists. Of the animal productions of Russian
America almost nothing has been made public since the days
of Steller, with the exception of few species described in
tbhreougZhotoltoogaisnchaberruptAtcloanscluosfioEnschstchheodlteza, thnoofwitsuanufothrotur.nateAlyll
that known of the zoology of New Caledonia and the banks
of the Columbia                               tohretirrapvoelpleurlsarwnhamo ehsa--ve
partially described  derived from voyagers
                     the objects of chase by
the notices occurring in the narrative of Lewis and Clark being
by far the fullest. The ornithological portion of the natural
ON NORTH AMERICAN ZOOLOGY.               135

history appendix to Captain Beechey's voyage by Mr. Vigors
is our principal authority for the Californian birds; while the
only professedly complete view of the Mexican fauna is the al
most obsolete work of Hernandez. European museums, that
of Berlin especially, have since the overthrow of the Spanish
dominion in the New World obtained many specimens from
Mexico, but we have      nPorot dbreoemn uasbleFatuo nparoMcuerxeicaa ncsomanpnleotuencleisdt
of species, nor has the
by Professor Lichtenstein yet reached England. In the mean
time we have had recourse to that author's elucidations of Her
nandez {Abhandl. der Ac. der JVissensch. zh Berlin, 1827) ;
to Deppe's sale list of Mexican specimens collected by himself,
and M. Schiede, dated 1830; and to a paper by Mr. Swainson
in the Philosophical Journal for 1827, describing one hundred
species of Mexican birds: but as these papers do not notice
the range of the species, they are very imperfect substitutes for
Professor Lichtenstein's expected work.
From the geographical position of Mexico on the verge of
the tropical region, the peculiar physical configuration of its
surface, and its being the boundary between the northern and
southern zoological provinces of America, it is the region which
above all others is likely when properly studied to yield infor
mation respecting the laws which influence the distribution of
animals. This has been well shown by Professor Lichtenstein
in his paper in the Berlin Transactions already quoted. He
compares the whole of New Spain to a great mountain, whose
volcanic summit, attaining an elevation of 17,000 feet, enters
within the snow line*, while its middle, temperate regioti
is traversed by numerous valleys communicating at various
heights, with wide basins, whose bottoms are little more than
a thousand feet above the sea level. Hence the traveller jour
neying down the deep descent of one of these magnificent ra
vines through forests of beeches, oaks, and pines loaded with
cacti and epidendra, finds himself suddenly on the level shores
of the Rio Alvarado surrounded by palms, and has an oppor
tunity of seeing the animal productions, of the north and
south, of the alpine regions and tropics, nay of the eastern and
western hemispheres, mingled together. Wolves of northern
aspect dwelling in the vicinity of monkeys ; humming birds
returning periodically from the borders of the frozen zone with
the northern buntings and soft-feathered titmice to nestle near
parrots and curucuis ; our common European whistling ducks,

   * The observations of Humboldt place tlic inferior limit of perpetual snow
within ten degrees of the equator in America at about 16,000 feet.
136 SIXTH RKrORT-lN.36.

shovellers, gadwalls, and teals swimming in lakes which swarm
with sirens (axolotl), and wherein the northern phaleropes seek
their food in company with Brazilian parras and boatbills ; asso
ciations which occur in no other region of the earth. Though
the Mexican valleys or plains, having various altitudes, furnish
appropriate stations for peculiar assemblages of animals, and
                           pr"accotilcde",oftethmepecroautne,tryantdhe"hdioffte"re, nytetrewgieonksnaorwe
by the common
distinguished as
loo little of the differences of climate to enable us to characterize
these local fauna? with precision. It may be stated, however,
that the low and hot maritime tract (tierra caliente) and the
interior valleys nourish forms which have heretofore been con
sidered as peculiarly South American, such as howling mon
keys, hapales, armadillos, ant-bears, coatis, peccaris, coandus,
jaguars, ocelots, maccaws, and ibises, though they do not range
to the northward of the 19th degree of latitude *. This district
also abounds in genera of birds common in the Brazils, (icterus,

ftanagra, lanius, and muscicapa Linn.,) but on a close exami
nation few of the species are found to extend to both continents.

   In the temperate region, where the cerealiu are cultivated,
the animals accord little with those of South America,                                                   b--udt ereer,
semble closely those of the east coast of North America
opossums, skunks, rabbits, squirrels, and other gnawers repla
cing the southern monkeys and armadillos ; in place of parrots
there are party-coloured woodpeckers ; and instead of tanagers
and hepoazas we meet with thrushes, buntings, hedge-creepers,
and warblers. The couracous, humming birds, and troupials go
partially beyond this region to colder districts or higher lati
tudes ; and it may be remarked of the couracous that they are
larger and more brilliant in the elevated Mexican woodlands
than in the Brazilian forests, while it may be affirmed of the
troupials that they spread from their most congenial residence
in the temperate regions of Mexico, northwards to the United
States, and southwards to Cayenne and Brazil.

   In the elevated cold region the fauna assumes an Europeo-
Asiatic character. The fields abound with hares, the woods
with squirrels ; and a destructive sand rat, resembling the Cana
dian   osncea,rcienlfyestdsifftehreinmgafirzoemgrtohuenSdsib. eriTahneornee,arteheals"ocaacsapmeirtmzlio"-
phile

(bassaris astuta) a beast of prey of a new genus, one or two

   · The Saia, Snguins, Sloths,             Tapirs,   anagdouTtiasj.as--ouLsi,chtaelsnosteBmra. zilian,  do  not
exist in this district, but there          are a tew                                                         the

wa+rmThdeistgreicnt.er--a  Pipra, Todus,   Myothrra,  Euphone, &c. are wanting in
                           Licktemttiii .
                           ON NORTH AMERICAN ZOOLOGY.                              137

species of skunk, some pretty weasels, (but no martins,) and a
wolf very much like the Canadian species, which descends also
to the warmer valleys. The white-head sea-eagle, the Virginian
horned owl, the common barn owl*, and a smaller species, with
sparrowhawks and falcons are the common birds of prey in
the cold region, where the Brazilian urubitingas and naked-
headed carrion vultures also come. Snow-birds, buntings, gros
beaks, a great variety of finches, and a peculiar kind of long-
legged ground cuckoos are the chief singing birds, and among
the water-fowl which cover the extensive alpine lakes there are
at least ten or twelve of our northern ducks. Terns and gulls
seldom fail to appear at certain seasons, but they are species
that have been described by Hernandez alone, and are not yet

introduced into our systems f. These remarks, though greatly

abridged from the original, will serve to show how much the
North American fauna in general would be elucidated by an
investigation of that of Mexico.

   In the following observations on the Mammalia, the arrange
ment of Cuvier's Rigne Animal is adopted.

                           Ord. QUADRUMANA.

   One animal of this order (inuus silvanus) ranges in the Old
World northward to the rock of Gibraltar, lying in the 36th
parallel, but we are informed by Lichtenstein that no monkey
has been observed in the New World beyond the 29th degree of
north latitude.            AMmr.erOicgailbJ,y                us that there are no  real
quadrumana in                                   again tells  monkeys inhabiting    that
                                               none of the

quarter of the globe having a thumb truly opposable to the fingers,
and he has therefore proposed to arrange them in a group named

· There is reason to believe that many owls which have heretofore been con
sidered as only geographical varieties of the Strix flammta are in fact distinct
species, though closely resembling the European type.
t The views of Mr. Swainson with respect to the junction of the North and
South American zoological provinces in Mexico correspond generally with
those of Lichtenstein, though these authors do not appear to have been
acquainted with each other's labours on that subject. Lichtenstein 's paper is
of a prior date to the Geographical Dictionary or Mr. Swainson's Treatises in
Lardner's Cyclopaedia.
   X Ogilby, Zool. Proc, No. 39, 1836.         " In a teles the thumb is cither merely
rudimentary or entirely absent ; in mycetet, lagathrix, aotut, pithecia and
Impale it is similar to the other fingers and in a line with them ; while in cebus
and caUithrix, though placed a little further back than the other fingers, it is
"weNaokneer,  and acts in  the same direction  with them,             in opposition to them."
              of the true  quadrumana have     prehensile    never       The American mon
                                                             tails."
keys have other peculiarities, of which the most characteristic are their lateral
nostrils. That they rarely sit erect is indicated by their hairy buttocks.
138 SIXTH REPORT -- 1836.
pedimana, which with the exception of the phalangers of the
Indian archipelago is proper to the New World and to Australia.
There are no apes nor baboons without tails in the group; even
the callosities of the buttocks are wanting, and a large proportion
of the species have prehensile tails endowed with so great a
delicacy of touch that they have been compared to the trunk of
the elephant. This modification of structure evidently indicates
great capability of travelling from tree to tree in lofty and
crowded forests, and it is worthy of remark that America excels
the other quarters of the world in the variety of animals which
use the tail as an organ of prehension or progression among trees,
for not only the geiiera mycetes, brachy teles, aleles, lagothrix,
and cebus among the quadrumana possess this power, but also
didelplns among the marsupiata, cercoleptes* ranking with the
varnivora, and synlkeres and capromys with the rodcntia.

    The monkeys which enter the southern provinces of Mexico

belong to the genera mycetes and hapale f.

         Ord. CARNIVORA. Fam. Cheiroptera.

in  The members of this family which have  hthitehe"rtotrubeeenor  detected
    North America belong to that tribe of                           insecti

vorous bats" which Cuvier has characterized as possessing only
one bony phalanx in the index, and two in each of the other
fingers. This is in fact the only tribe of cheiroptera which is
distributed generally over the world, and to it all the European
bats belong, with the solitary exception of the Italian di/iops
Cestonii. The other subdivision of the true bats, comprising
molossus, dinops, nyctinomes, cheiromeles, noctilio and phyllo-
storna, is chiefly South American, though it has a few represen
tatives in the warmer regions of the old continent. Phyllo-
stoma, the most remarkable of the generic groups, is indeed
peculiar to the new world ; but phyllostoma spectrum, placed by
Geoffroy in a distinct genus named vampirus, is the only
species which authors have mentioned as ranging northwards to
New Spain J.
    The following bats have been noted as inhabitants of the
United States and British America; and though they almost all
belong to the cosmopolitan genus vespertilio, none of the Ame
rican species have been detected in other countries.

    * The closest affinities     of cerooleptes are with the uniform planiigrada.--
          Zool. Proc,          "32K,la1m83m5e. r-afTon."-- Lichtenstein, op. cit., p. 97.
Owten",  13riill-aflbn"   No.
                         and
    t Dcsmar. Mamm., Gkiff. Cuv., &c.
             ON NORTH AMERICAN ZOOLOGY.                    139

Rhinopoma earolinensis, Geoff. Mus.*        Vespertilio monachus, Raf.
Taj/hnzma rufus, Wils. Am. Or. 50.                ,, phaiqps, Id.
             carolinensis, Gboff. Mus. 47.
Vespertilio  arquatus, Say. Long's Exp.     Plecotis megalotis. Id.
       ,,    subulatus, Id. lb.             Nycticeius noveboracensis, Penn. 31, 2.
             Audubonii, Harlan.
,,                                                ,, fiumeralis, Raf.
,,                                                 ,, tessellatus, Id.
,, melanotus, Rafineso.uk.                         ,, pruinosus, Godm./>. 72./;3.
,, calcaratiu, Id.                          Hypejcodon mystajc, Raf.
,, cyanopterus, Id.

The first species of the above list is in Geoffroy's opinion not
a true rhinopoma, and the native country of the only individual
which has been seen is very doubtful f. The red bat of Penn
sylvania is the only American taphozous, the other members of
the genus being inhabitants of Africa and the East Indies.
The remaining bats of the list are analogous to those of the
temperate parts of Europe ; but most of the species are still
imperfectly described, nor have their distinctive characters been
                         and consequently
properly investigated,  their distribution.  noItthicnagn  certain can
be stated respecting                                       scarcely be
matter of surprise that these nocturnal animals are so little
known in the New World, when we consider that though Pen
nant described only five species as natives of Great Britain,

seventeen are figured in Mr. Bell's recent work. The American
bats which have been admitted into systematic works, on M. Ra-

finesque's authority, have been named rather than characterized;
and few of the many genera proposed by this author have been
adopted by naturalists, owing to his want of precision and inat
tention to structure. His labours are not, however, to be en
tirely disregarded; for he has certainly detected many new
animals both in Europe and America, being one of the first in
vestigators of the natural history of the latter country who was
not prevented from judging for himself by an overweening de
ference to European authority. His genus nycticeius, charac
terized by having only two widely separated upper incisors,
includes a considerable number of species hitherto ranged with
vespertilio, and according to M. Temminck comprises even the
genus atalapha, which Rafinesque had incorrectly founded on
the vespertilio novehoracensis, from a supposed want of these
two incisors, which nevertheless exist. The characters of hy-
pexodon are equally vague, and it is not likely that any one of
these three genera will be permanently adopted. Nycticeius

pruinosus has been taken on the Saskatchewan, the Missouri,
and at Philadelphia ; and vespertilio subulatus, having a range

   · The doubtful species, or those which particularly require further elucidation,
are in italics.

  f Deamav., /. c.
140 SIXTH REPORT -- 1836.

of 24 degrees of latitude from the Arkansas to Great Slave
Lake, is probably the most generally diffused of the American

bats.

         Ord. CARNIVORA, cont. Fam. Insbctivora.

Sorex brevicaudus, Say, Lang'* exp.    Condylura cristata, Gomis.pl.
    parvus, Id.                            lmonafcfricoauurad,at1a1.akRi.i.chR.icFh.B. .FA..B.A.
,,  personatus, Geoffr. Mta. 15, 122.  ,,
,,  Forsteri, Rich. F.B.A.             ,,  24.
,,
    palustris,  Id. lb.                ,, pratinata, Harris, Less. man.
,,  talpoide*,  Gappkr,  ZooL J.       Scalops canadensis, Godm. pi.
,,                                5.

    In no other family of carnivora do the North American
members differ so much from the European ones as this, the
 range both of generic forms and of species being more than
usually restricted within certain geographical limits. None of
 the family are known to inhabit South America ; the European
genera erinaceus, talpa, and mi/gale have not been detected in
 North America, while condylura, scalops, and all the shrews in
the above list are peculiar to the latter country. Cladobates,
centenes, and chrysochloris belong to the East Indies, Mada
gascar, and the Cape of Good Hope, the supposed American
species of the last-mentioned genus {chrysochloris rubra vel
ru/a) having no other authority for its origin than that of Seba,
upon which very little dependence can be placed.

   The shrews above enumerated closely resemble their Euro
pean congeners, with whom they have not been sufficiently
compared ; palustris in particular is with difficulty distinguish
able from fodiens or Daubentonii. Little has been done to
wards determining the range of the North American species.
Those which inhabit the Atlantic states were formerly con
sidered as identical with European species; but after Mr. Say, in
his expedition up the Missouri, had detected and described as
new brevicaudus and parvus, these names were applied to the
coast shrews, though it is by no means certain that they are
more appropriate than the older appellations. S. brevicaudus
is said by Mr. Taylor* to be an inhabitant of the Alleghany
range, at the height of 2000 feet above the sea, where during
the winter it makes long galleries in the deep snow. S. palus
tris and Forsteri have a high northern range, extending within
the arctic circle to the limit of the woods. The latter differs
from the description of S. personatus principally in wanting a
black mark on the end of the nose and in the colour of the
under fur, so that without a comparison of specimens they can
not be positively pronounced to be distinct. 5". la/poides, the

                         · Mag. Nat. Hut.
                         ON NORTH AMERICAN ZOOLOGY.                            141

largest of the American shrews, was detected in Canada by
Dr. Gapper, who has deposited a specimen in the Bristol mu
seum. The distribution of condylura and scalojis has been but
partially traced, but it is probable that they do not extend be
yond the 53rd parallel. Mr. Taylor captured the scalops cana
densis on the north eastern end of the Alleghanies at an elevation
of 1500 feet, while the condylurce were confined to the bottom
meadow lands. Lichtenstein thinks it probable that the moles
entirely destitute of sight mentioned by Hernandez as inhabi
tants of Mexico, belong to the genus scalops. Authors disagree
in their accounts of the dentition of the sea lopes. Baron Cuvier
Isays that they have the teeth of the desmans, and such is the

case in the specimens which have examined, the total number
of teeth being 44. Desmarest enumerates only 30 teeth in all,
and Dr. Godman, who is followed by Lesson, reckons 36.
Harlan describes a species (pennsy Irani ca), of which he has
merely the skeleton, possessing 40 teeth. The teeth of the Cana
dian species round away by use in a very remarkable manner, so
ansamtoedloo"kbllaikcek  rows of                 The genus of the animal
                         mole,"   seed pearls.   some as a talpa, is uncer
                                  considered by
tain, but it is most likely a scalops : Mr. Taylor found it on the
Alleghany range. The condylurce would form an interesting
subject for a monograph ; the species are, perhaps, more nu
merous than has hitherto been suspected, and their manners are
as yet almost unknown. The remarkable enlargement of the
tail, which has given origin to one of the specific appellations,
is, according to Dr. Godman, merely a sexual peculiarity con

fined to certain seasons.

         Ord. CARNIVORA cont. Fam. Carnivora.

                               Div. 1. Plantigrada.

Ursus arctos*? Rich. F.B.A.               Nasna, species dure, Licht. Hern.
   ,, ferox, Id. /. c. 1.                 Meles labradoria, Rich. F.B.A. 2.
   ,, amerieanus, F. Cuv. Hint, des Mam.                    Edw.
   ,, marithnus, Ross, Yoy.pL             Gulo   lnscus* ?          103.  pi.
                                             ,,  barbara,   Griff.
Procyon lotor, Buff. 8, 43.                                         Cuv.
                                          Bassaris asluta, Licht. Hern.

                               Div. 2. Digitigrada.

Putorius vison, Buff. 13. 43.             Mephitis nasua, Benn. Zool. Proceed,
         vulgaris* ? Penn. Arct. Zool.                 putorius, Catesb. 62.
  J\,,   erminea* ? Id. It.                           interrupta, Raf. An. of Nat.
         canadensis, Gmel. Rich. F.B.A.                vulpecula, Fisch. Syn.
    ,,   hum, F. Cuv. Vict, des Sc. 29.                myotis, Id. /*.
Mustela                                                itzqui-epatl, Hernandez, Mex.
,, martes*} Rich. F. ft A.                            eonepatl, Id. It.
Mephitis americana, Sabine, Fr. Yoy.
142 SIXTH REPORT-- 183C.

Lutra canadensis, Fr. Cuv. B. desSc. 27.     Felis onca, Fr. Cuv. //. del Mam. pL
   ,, lataxina* ? Id. lb.                                    Cuv.
Enhydra marina*, Cook, Third Voy. 43.        ,,  discolor,
       occidentalis, Rich. F.B.A. 3.         ,,  partialis,  Griff. Cuv. pi. v.
       mexicanus, Lin. Licrt. Hern.          ,, rufa, Schreb. 109, 13.
Lupus  latrans, Rich. F.B.A. 4.              ,, mitts, F. Cuv. H. des Mam. No. 18.
                                                 canadensis*? Geoff.
   ,,                                        ,,  Griffithsii, Fisch. Syn.          Griff.  Car.
   ,,                                        ,,
   ,, ochropus, Eschsch. Zool. All. 2.
   ,, niyrirostris, Licht. Hern.                                     Ocel. 3.
Vulpes lagopus*, Thien. Nat. Bern.
   ,, isatis, Id. Id.                        ,, chiliyuoaza, Fisch. Syn. Gritf. &c.

   ,, fulvus, Rich. F. B.A. 5.               ,,  macula/a,   Ocel. 4.              Zool. J. 4,

   ,, cinerco-argentatus, Schreb.                            Horsf. & Via.

   ,, velox, Say, Lony. Erp.                                 13.

   It is to this great family that the terrestrial quadrupeds which
are common to the old and new continents mostly belong. The
generic forms are those of Europe, with a few exceptions, such
as proci/on, nasua, bassaris and mephitis, which seem to be
stragglers from the South American zoological province. On
the other hand, the genus lutra, which is a northern form, sends
                        the south of         Isthmus of Darien.
a  few species to      --Two bears      the  the preceding list are
                                        of
   Plant igradu.                                                                   peculiar
to the New World, namely ferox and americanus, the former
dwelling principally in the Rocky Mountains, but occasionally
descending to the neighbouring prairies, while the latter inha
bits all the wooded districts from Carolina to the Arctic Sea,

being, however, less numerous near the coast. The maritimus
is common to all the northern regions, but it ought in fact to
be considered rather as a sea animal than a land one : it tra
verses the whole of the icy seas from Nova Zembla and Spitz-
bergen to Greenland, and from thence along Arctic America to
the shores of Siberia. It is, in fact, the most northern quadru
ped, having been seen by Sir Edward Parry in the 82nd degree
of latitude, and it descends on the Labrador coast to the 55th.
The males, and females that are not gravid, travel far in the
winter time over the ice in quest of food*. The ursus arctos
cdiorecsle,nboet inrgangceonfiinneAdmetorictahem"ucbhartroent-hgerousonudtsh        the Arctic
                                                                               of  its identity

                                                                              :"
with its European namesake has not been been properly esta
blished. Lichtenstein, in his observations on the work of Her
nandez, mentions two or three species of nasua as existing in
Mexico, one of them being white with large black spots. The
raccoon {procyon lotor) ranges from Canada as far south, it is
said, as Paraguay : on the coast of the Pacific, its skins are ob-

   · Vide App. to Capt. Back's Journey, wherein an instance is quoted of a
whale having been killed by the crew of a vessel which was beset in the winter
by ice GO miles from the land. Next day many bears and arctic foxes came to

feed on the crang ! !
                ON NORTH AMERICAN ZOOLOGY.                       113

tained by the fur-dealers up to latitude 60°, but more correct
observations as to the identity of the species are required before
so extensive a range can be ascribed with certainty to this ani
mal. Mr. Collie, when with Captain Becchey, saw a small
ursine animal very abundant on the coast of California, which
is probably the proofon cancrivorus or an allied species.
   The meles labradoria, which is perfectly distinct from the
European badger, has its northern limit about the 55th parallel,
where it inhabits the prairies only. The meles hudsonius, men
tioned by Cuvier in the Regne Animal as differing very little
from the meles vulgaris of Europe, is entirely unknown to us.
The Mexican species, supposed to be indicated by Hernandez,
is very doubtful. The wolverene {gulo luscus) does not vary,
according   to  Cuvier, from  the European glutton
characters      next to the   polar bear and arctic  bfyoxperitmaisnetnhte
             ;

most northern carnivorous quadruped, its range extending to

Parry's Isles in latitude 75° N., if not to a still higher parallel.
Gulo barbara, enumerated by Lichtenstein in his list of Mexican
animals, extends southwards through all the warmer districts

of America. Mr. Gray pointed out to me its closer resemblance
in external form to the weasels than to the northern glutton,
and its differences from the latter in the form of its feet, which,

though plantigrade, are slightly webbed, in its long tail, and
in its having a tooth fewer in each jaw ; it should therefore be
separated, together with its allied species, in which case gulo
would remain entirely a northern genus. Bassaris astuta is a
Mexican animal, noticed by Hernandez under the name of tepe-
maxtlatan, which has characters intermediate between viverra
and uasua, and is therefore placed in a new genus by Lichten

stein.

   Digitigrada. -- The American weasels and martins have greatly
perplexed naturalists, and their synonyms are involved in much
confusion ; yet we can pretty confidently assert that five species
only are known in the fur-countries from latitude 50° N. to the
Arctic sea. The range of the described species is limited to the
northern or middle districts of the United States ; but Lich
tenstein informs us that some new kinds inhabit the elevated

lands of Mexico.    The ermine   has been seen as high   as the  73£
degree of latitude  on the west  side of Baffin's Bay*.          very
                                                          It is
probable that both the ermine and stoat of America are distinct
species from those of the old continents, the superior quality of
the fur of the Siberian ermine being one marked difference;
while there are others, such as the mirth smaller skull of the

                    · Sir J. Ross, Firit Voyage.
144 SIXTH REPORT -- 183C.

American animal, which will be more readily acknowledged by
naturalists. Baron Cuvier holds the putorius vison to be a di
stinct species from the mustela putoriiis of Europe, though some
zoologists confound them* ; it ranges from Carolina to the arc
tic sea. The pine-martin of America is also most probably a
different species from the European one, and in fact the com
parisons of Mr. Yarrell have shown that in the form of its skull
it approaches more closely to the martes foina, or beech mar
tin. Most of the American martins noticed by authors we be
lieve to be merely nominal species ; thus the huro of Frederick
Cuvier is the common American pine-martin in its pale summer
dress, and the same is most probably the case with the lutreo-
cepliala of Harlanf, while the zibellina of American naturalists
is the same animal in its prime dark winter fur. The pine-
martin ranges northwards to the limits of the woods, and many
specimens corresponding with the descriptions of huro and lu-
treocephala were observed at Fort Franklin, where the natives
considered them, and the darker and often smaller martin sold

by the furriers under the name of sable, to form only one spe
cies:}:. The m. vnlpina of Rafinesque and m. leucopus of Kuhl
         "fufirsthheerr",inovres"tigwaetijoanc.k"
require                                            (mustela  canadensis),  is found up
   The
to the 60th parallel. Its synonymy is embroiled in confusion,
which is attempted to be unravelled in the Fauna Boreati-
Americana ; but on referring to Fischer's synopsis, we discover
that it has more recently received other appellations, and among
the rest that of mustela Godmanii, apparently from an appre
hension that the animal described in Dr. Godman's natural

history is either a distinct species or a well-marked variety.
Now, on referring to this description, we observe that it is sub
stantially the same with that drawn up by Mr. Sabine (in the
appendix to Sir John   Franklin's first            journey)   of  "thtaeil  common
wejack, or woodshuck,   with the single            addition  of             smallest
at the end", which is not really the case in the wejack.
The mephitis americana ranges northwards to the 61st paral
lel^ but its southern limits cannot be ascertained until the
species are more clearly defined. Some authors consider every

   · Fischer, probably misled by Pennant's miserable figure of tbe animal in
the History of Quadrupeds, has named a fictitious species enhydra gracilis.
(Synops.)

   t Dr. Godman says that the original specimen described by Dr. Harlan
under the appellation of lutreocej.hala is an overstuffed vison, long kept in

Peale's museum.

   J Vide Yarrell's Zoo}. Jour, for 1S3G.
   § Vide King's Narrative of Capl. Back's Journey. Bentley, 183G.
              ON NORTH AMERICAN ZOOLOGY.                         145

individual differing in the distribution of its stripes as a distinct
species, while Cuvier ranks them all as mere varieties, thus at
tributing to the animal a most extensive range through North
and South America. The americana, which is the most north

ern species, is very uniform in its markings within the limits of
the fur countries. Kalm describes one differently zoned as an
inhabitant of Canada; the be'te puante, discovered by Du Pratz
in Louisiana, has been named mephitis ? myotis by Fischer ;
Rafinesque distinguishes the mephitis interrupta of the same
country ; and Hernandez points out two Mexican skunks by the
names of itsqui-epatl and cone-epatl. The m. nasua is an in
habitant of California. There is, perhaps, an error in the
statement made by some naturalists, that the South American
mephitis chincha extends its range to the southern parts of the
United States, for though the Baron finds the osteological cha
racters of all to be the same, the varieties distinguished by the
number and distribution of their stripes do not usually occur
together in the same districts, nor range through many degrees
of latitude.

According to Baron Cuvier, the httra canadensis, which ex
tends northwards to the vicinity of the polar sea, is the same
species with the brasiliensis ; and the lataxina has an almost
equally extensive range from Great Slave Lake, where it was
found by Mr. King, to Carolina, where F. Cuvier's specimens
were obtained, and the Brazils, whence the Baron received it.
The variety of climates inhabited by lataxina will be still more
              as Cuvier seems to intimate, be specifically
remarkable    if,
                       it

                                 ;

                                   it

                                            is

                                                             it
the same with the European otter, for he says they do not
differ by any permanent characters. Even the domestic dog
does not change his abode to the same extent without under
going more sensible alterations of form. Were the otter to
live entirely in the water, the severity of the seasons would be
                          wont in the high northern lati
greatly tempered to  but

tudes to travel far through the snow in quest of open water

when its summer haunts are frozen up.

   With regard to the species of the genus canis much difference
of opinion will most likely continue to prevail among naturalists,
from the general uniformity of their external forms, the great
difficulty of characterizing the differences by brief descriptions,
and the want of a sufficient number of specimens in any one
collection for comparison. The physiognomy of the American
wolf when contrasted with that of- its European namesake
                          L
                                                                          is
very distinct; but a family likeness prevails throughout the
whole group of American wolves, however much they may dif
fer in size, colours, or even in habits.  The lupus occidentalis

   vol. v. 1836.
146 SIXTH REPORT -- 183G.

travels northwards to the islands of the Arctic Sea, but its south
ern range cannot be defined until its identity with the com
mon wolf of the United States be proved or disproved. Accord
ing to Lewis and Clark, the latter crosses the continent to
Upper California. The Mexican wolf seems to differ from oc-
cidentalis chiefly in the black parts of the fur forming bands on
the flanks ; an accurate comparison of the two is still required.
Canis latrans, or the prairie wolf, is found on the Saskatchwan
and Missouri, being confined, as its name imports, to the prairie

lands. It is probable that the Californian ochropus and the

Mexican 7iigrirostris are but varieties of latrans. Authors are
not more decided with respect to the species of foxes. Cuvier
thinks that the canis fulvus differs from the European vnlpes
merely in having more brilliant fur; but, as Mr. Bennett
has remarked, it is impossible for any one to contemplate
the two species together in the Zoological Gardens without
observing their very different aspects : the black, silver, and

cross foxes of the furriers are mere varieties of fulvus. A no
tion exists in the United States that the descendants of Euro

pean foxes introduced by the early settlers are now numerous
in the country, but the fact has not been established by a deci
sive comparison of specimens, and it is possible that the ani
mal of supposed European origin is the Virginian fox (cinereus
or cinereo-argentatus of Schreber), which at certain seasons has
a reddish hue. The latter ranges from Upper Canada across
the continent to the banks of the Columbia, southwards to
the Gulf of Mexico, and, according to Cuvier, throughout
tropical America. The kit-fox (yelox) is peculiar to the prairies,
and does not go higher than the 55th parallel of latitude ; it is
very similar in habits to the Asiatic corsac. Thieneman has
distinguished two species of arctic fox, which were formerly
confounded under the name of lagopus. One for which he
has retained this appellation is stated in Fischer's synopsis to
be an inhabitant of Europe only ; but it is the species which
frequents the arctic coasts of America as far west as Mac
kenzie's River, and descends along the shores of Hudson's
Bay to the 58th parallel. The other species, named isatis,
characterized by its acute ears and coloured tip of the tail,

Iis said to be an inhabitant of the northern parts of Asia and

America; but suspect th.it its range in the latter country
is confined to the west side of the Rocky Mountains, as it did
not fall under my observation to the eastward. On the Pacific
coast the arctic fox is said to occur as far south as the 58th or
59th degree of latitude.

   The confusion of synonyms in the genus felis is not less per
               ON NORTH AMERICAN ZOOLOGY.                                   147

plexing than in that of canis, and though the labours of F.
Cuvier, Temminck, and others have expunged several nominal
species from the American fauna, no dependance can be placed
on the accounts which previous writers have given of their dis
tribution. Temminck has remarked that there is no proof of
either felis onca or partialis having been killed in North Ame
rica ; but both these and the puma, or cougar (concolor), are
mentioned by Lichtenstein as inhabitants of Mexico, probably on
the authority of specimens communicated by Messrs. Deppe and
Scbiede. The puma is decidedly common to North and South
America : Langsdorff observed it in Upper California, Dr.
Godman adduces authenticated instances of its having been
killed in Kentucky and New York, and it is said to have strayed
occasionally as far north as Canada. The existence of the ja
guar (onca) within the      limits of the United States is more
doubtful, though Lewis      and Clark say that they saw it on the
banks of the Columbia, and Dr. Harlan includes both it and the
ocelot (partialis) in his fauna of the United States. In neither
case, however, have we any information respecting the means
used for identifying the species ; and as felis mitis, now known
to range northwards to Mexico*, was confounded with pardalis
until its peculiar characters were pointed out by F. Cuvier, we
are not in a condition to say which of the two enter the United
         if,
                         it

                                         is

                                                                                   :

                                                    it it
                                                                                     it
States,  indeed, either of them come so far north. According

to Temminck, felis rufa inhabits every part of the United
States, but does not exist in Canada  ranges to the banks of
the Columbia, and Mr. Bullock found in Mexico. The pee-
shew, or felis canadensis,  the most northern of the cat-kind,

being, in fact, the only species which extends beyond the Ca
nada lakes, whence ranges through the woody districts of the
fur- countries up to the 66th parallel. Temminck states that
is also an inhabitant of the northern parts of the Old World,
and he has therefore proposed to change its name to borealis.
The name of canadensis having been occasionally given to the bay
lynx by the naturalists of the United States, erroneous impres
sions of the southerly range of the former have been produced.
Felis carolinensis and mexicana of Desmarest, and montana,
Jloridana, and aurea of Rafinesque, are doubtful species, the
occurrence of whose names in systematic works shows the ne
cessity for extended and correct observations by resident natu
ralists. The lynx fasciatus of the latter author founded upon
Lewis and Clark's description of cat killed by them on the
*

                         It

                                      is
                                                ;
                                                                a

                                                                        is
banks of the Columbia but the species requires further cluci-

Lichtenstein.  supposed to be the jaguar of New Spain of Buffon.
148 SIXTH REPORT 1836.

(Lit ion before it can be considered as established. Lieutenant-
               H. Smith has
--colNonoe.l  3, which came   figured two ocelots in Griffith's  Cuvier,
                             from Mexico, and was preserved      in Bul
lock's museum, and No. 4, which he supposes to be a native of
the same country, and to be the species figured by Buffon,
Supp. 3, 18. The former is named/. Griffithsii, and the latter

/. chibiguaza in Fischer's synopsis. The felis maculata of

Horsfield and Vigors, figured in the Zoological Journal, was
brought from Mexico by Captain Lyon.

              Ord. CARNIVORA, cont. Fam. Amphibia.

Calocepbalus vitulinus*, F. Cuv.      Otaria jubata, Peron.
                                      ,, ursina, Id.
,, fcetidus*, Fabr.                       pusilla, Buff. 13, 53.
              hispidus*, Stimuli.         califomiana, Croris, Voy.M.
,,            groenlandicus*, Egede.  ,,
,,                                    ,,
,, lagurus, F. Cuv.                      ,, Stelleri, Less. Fisch. Syn.
,, barbatus*, Fabr.                   Trichechus rosmarus*, Lin.
Stemmatopus cristatus*, Gmel.

    Few of the amphibious carnivora enumerated above are pecu
liar to America, for though the otaria; are found only in the
Pacific, they range to its Asiatic as well as the American shores ;
the others are mostly common to the northern seas of Europe,
Asia, and America. As it is only of late years that the seals of
Europe have been investigated with any success, there is little
probability of the Ameriaan list being either correct or com
plete*.

    Captain James Ross states that the smaller seals (vitulina
fcetida and hispida) come into the bays and near to the shores
of the arctic seas in winter, living under the ice, in which they
preserve breathing-holes ; while the harp and great seals {groen-
landica and barbata) keep at a distance from the land among
the packed ice and partially open water. Calocephahts lagurus
was sent from Newfoundland by De la Pilaye, and it is probable
that leucoplus (Thien.), which inhabits Iceland, ranges over to
Greenland and Davis's Straits, in which case it belongs also to
the American fauna. The leonine seal (stemmatopus cristatus)
descends further southwards on the American coast than else
where, one having been captured near New York. This specimen
has been described as a distinct species under the name of mi-
trata (Fischer, syn.). Most of the Davis's Straits seals have
been enumerated by authors as inhabitants also of the sea of

   · All the calocephali of the above list, except fcetidus and lagurus, are men
tioned by Graah as inhabitants of the east coast of Greenland, as are also stem
matopus cristatus and trichechus rosmarus. (Vide Exp. to East Coast of Green
land, by Capt. W. A. Graah.)
       ON NORTH AMERICAN ZOOLOGY.                                                                  149

Kamschatka. Of the otarice which also frequent the sea just
named, jubata is said, though without satisfactory evidence, to

exist also in the Straits of Magalhaes. O. Stelleri is very im
perfectly known, even the genus to which it belongs being un

certain. The existence of the otariafasciculata, or the "rib

bon seal", is surmised merely because a piece of back-skin was
transmitted from the Kurile islands to Pennant, and figured by

him in the History of Quadrupeds.
   The trichechus rosmarus is found in all the arctic seas, though

there are some deep sounds, such as Regent's and Bathurst's

Inlets, into which it does not enter. It descends along the

Labrador coast to the Magdalene islands, in the 47th parallel.

       Ord. MARSUPIATA*.

Didelphis virginiana, Griff. Cuv. pi.                               Didelphis cancrivora, Griff. Cuv. pi.
     ,, opossum, Buff. 10, 45, 46.

As the marsupial animals are now confined to America, New
Holland, and some parts of the Indian archipelago, and geologi
cal researches indicate that they are the earliest mammiferous
animals whose remains exist in the ancient strata of the earth,

the study of these zoological provinces must be interesting to
those who seek to develope the condition of the world at former
periods. Comparative anatomists have shown that the marsu-
piata are inferior to other mammalia in their simple unconvo-
luted brain, less perfect organs of voice, and lower intelligence ;
the rodentia are next to them in these respects ; and the exist
ence of marsupiata and the great numbers of rodentia in the
North American fauna are its chief characteristics when con

trasted with that of Europe. It has been said that when the

ancient marsupiata existed they were exposed to the attacks
of  no enemy having higher intellectual powers
    the present day the opossums of America and                     than a reptile.
In                                                                  the phalangers
of India have many enemies of different classes, yet they do not
seem to be in any immediate danger of extinction ; and the
more numerous marsupials of Australia are kept sufficiently
under by carnivorous beasts of their own order, aided by birds

* Though Cuvier has arranged the marsupiata as an order, he considers it
rather as forming a division, or subclass, parallel to the rest of the mammalia,
and    rtehpartes"enthteingmaarlsl upthiaels,othienrcluorddienrgs.     Mr. Owen agrees with   him  in obser
ving,                                                               the monotremes, form a   very  complete

series, adapted to the assimilation of every form of organic matter." M. Des-
inoulins and Mr. Swainson have distributed them among the several orders,
esteeming what Cuvier supposed to be merely analogies to be in reality affini
ties. The didelphidce being carnivorous, are not, in either view of the matter,
out of place at the end of the carnivora.
150 SIXTH REPORT 1836.

of prey, and above all by man and his attendant dog. In the
order rudentiu we have an example of productiveness being
sufficient to ensure the species from extinction, though assailed
by hosts of foes of all kinds.
Only one dhklphis is common to North America, namely,
the virginiana, which extends to the Canada lakes, being,
moreover, like the rest of the genus, an inhabitant of the inter
tropical parts of the continent. Mr. Collie saw it in California,
and Temminck says it inhabits Mexico. Didefphis cancrivura
                                            tnootLicthheten"stceoiyno, paosllifna"r
and opossum  range, according                                                        north as
Mexico, and
             if one of these be                                                      of Her

nandez, there is a fourth species in that country. Authors have
somewhat arbitrarily used the name of coyopollin as a synonym
of dorsigera and philander ; but it is by no means certain that
the latter species reaches Mexico.

                                Ord. RODENTIA.

Sciurus cinereus, Buff. 10, 25.             Sigmwlun hispidum,     Say.
,, capistratus, Griff. Cuv. pi.                   ,, ferrugineum,                          Jour.
                                                                    H arl.           SiU.

,,  ? grammurus,    SFa.By,.JL.ong.  Exp.   Fiber zibcthicus, Cuv.
,,   niger, Rich.                           Arvicola riparius, Ord.
,, Colliici, Id. Beech. App. 1.             ,, xantbognatlius, Leach. ZooL M.
,, Clarkii, Smith, Griff. Cuv. pi.          ,, pennsylvaniciu, Rich. F.B.A.
,, Lewisii, Id. /. c.pl.                    ,, noveboracensis, Id. l.c.
,, litulsonius, Rich. F.B.A. 17.            ,, borealis, Id. I.e.
Tamias Lysteri, Id. F.B.A. 15.                   ,, rubricatus, Id. Beeeh. App.
,, quadrivittatus, Id. F.B.A. 16.           Mgnomes pratensis, Raf. An. Nat. 1820.
,, buccatua, Licht. Deppe's List.           Georychus hclvolus, Rich. F.B.A.
Fteromys sabrinus, Rich. F.B.A.             ,, trimucronatns, Id. I.e.
,, alpinus, Id. I.e. 18.                    ,, hudsonius, Id. l.c.
,, volucella, Buff. 10, 21.                 ,, groenlandiciis, Id. l.c.
Spermophilus lateralis, Rich. F.B.A. 13.    Geomys bursarius, Da vies, Lin. Tr. 5, 8.
,, Iloodii, Id. I.e. 14.                    ,, borealis, Rich. nor. up.
,, Richardsonii, Id. I.e. 11.               ,, Douglasii, Id. F.B.A.
,, Franklinii, Id. I.e. 12.                 ,, bulbivorus, Id. l.c. (diplostoma).
,, Beecheyi, Id. I.e. 12 B.                 ,, umbrinus, Id. l.c.
,, Douglasii, Id. he.                       ,, talpoides, Id. l.c.
,, Parryii, Id. I.e. 10.                    ,, piuetis, Raf.
,, yuttatus? Id. I.e.                       ,, Drummondii, Rich. nov. sp.
     spilosus, Benn. Zool.      Pr., 1833.  ,, mexicanus, Licht. Hern.
,,                              Cuv.        Saccomys anthophilus, F. Cuv.
,,  ? Ludovicianus, Griff.                      ,, fascintus, Raf. (Cricetus).
Arctorays empctra, Rich. F.B.A. 9.
    ,, ? brachyurus, Harlan, fauna.         Apluodontia leporina, Rich. F.B.A. 18 C.
     ,, f pruinosus, Penn.                  Castor fiber* ?,L.
,, < catiyatus, Eschsch. Zool. At. 0.
                    King, Narr. ire.        Erctizon dorsatum, Griff. Cuv. pL
                                            Synethere8 prchensilis, F. Cuv.
,,  [_ochanagamts.  104, Griff. Cuv.        Lepus glacialis, Leach.
,,
     monax, Edw.
Mus leucopus, Raf. Rich. F.B.A.
,, ? rirginicus, Reich. Fisch. Syn.         ,,  americanus, Gmel.
                                            ,,
                                                viryinianus, Harl.
Mcrioncs labradorius, Rich. F.B.A. 17.      ,, mexicamis, Licht.
Jicotoma Dnimmondii, Rich. F.B.A. 8.
,, floridana, Say & Ord. Ae. Se.            ,, cuniculariwt, Id.
                                            Lagomys princeps, Rich. F.B.A. 19.
    Ph.
                                            Dasyprocta carolinensis, F. Cuv.

North America exceeds the other quarters of the world in the
                  ON NORTH AMERICAN ZOOLOGY.                                           15]

number of species and variety of forms of its rodent animals ;
but they are still very imperfectly known, as their original de-
scribers have too frequently contented themselves with noticing
the colour of the fur and the length of the tail, disregarding os-
teological characters, and rarely noting the dentition, so that
many of the species enumerated in the American fauna are of un
certain genera, and many nominal ones have been introduced.
The American naturalist who shall sedulously collect rodentia
from various parts of his country, and describe minutely their
characters, adding comparative notices of the species of each
genus, will confer a great obligation on the lovers of science.
Rafinesque has noticed a considerable number of animals of this
order, some of them so peculiarly striped that they could not
easily be mistaken were they to come under the observation of
another zoologist ; but in the instances in which his animals
have been traced he is found to be so often inaccurate, and his

generic characters are so generally imperfect, that science would

sustain little loss if his notices were expunged from our books of
natural history, were it not that they serve the purpose of inducing
search in the localities he points out. In the preceding list we
have omitted most of the doubtful species which have been ad
mitted into the systems.
Sciurus cinereus, which has a multitude of synonyms tacked
it,to inhabits most parts of the United States, being very abun
                  isdant in Carolina and Pennsylvania. Sc. rtifiventer of Geoffrey,
                     it
magnicaudatus of Say, and ludovicianus of Curtis, quoted by
Harlan, do not, as far as we can judge by the published descrip
tions, differ from certain states of ci?iereus.
                                  :                  sc. hypoxanthus

                                    it

                                         is

                                              A

                                                         is
                                                                a

                                                                                    ;
occurs in Lichtenstein's list of Deppe's Mexican animals but
no character given, so that we have no means of ascertaining
in what respect differs from the fulvous-bellied condition of
cinereus. The sc. capistratus, or fox-squirrel,
                                                     larger spe
cies, which varies greatly in its colours, and inhabits the middle
and southern states of the Union
                                          generally supposed to
be one of the Mexican squirrels described by Hernandez, and
named by some authors variegatus, but this wants confirmation.
Say's sc. grammunis lives in holes, does not voluntarily ascend
trees, and. has very coarse fur hence                most probably a
                            ;

                                         it

                                                 is

spermophile  :     was found near the sources of the Arkansa.

               it

The black squirrels of the United States are generally referred
to cajristratus but smaller and totally black species (having no
             ;           a

white    muzzle)  inhabits the northern   shores of Lake Huron, and                         ,
to this  we have  restricted the name of  niger in the Fauna Boreali-

americana. The larger black kind exists in Canada, and Her
nandez mentions Mexican squirrels which arc totally black, along
    152 SIXTH REPORT -- 1836.

    with others which are white with yellow tints. Sciurtu Collicei
    from California, figured in the appendix to Beechey's Voyage,
             from                                   AthtleanMtiecxicsatante"s,    hut
    differs  agrees  any   species inhabiting the
    nearly           with   Hernandez's account of                              tlal-
    mototli". Sc. Clarkii and Leivisii, figured by Lieut. -Colonel
    Hamilton Smith in Griffith's Cuvier, were brought from the
    Missouri by the travellers whose names they bear. The latter
    is supposed by the editor of the work referred to, to be the sc.
    annulatus of Desmarest, whose native country was previously
    unknown. The sciurus hudsonius, named locally red-squirrel,
    or chickaree, the most northern American species, has a range
    from the arctic extremity of the woods to Massachusetts.
    Though destitute of cheek-pouches, it has been generally ranked
    as a tamias, perhaps on account of the dark line which occa
    sionally divides the fur of the back from that of the belly ; and,
    indeed, it resembles the tamias in forming burrows at the foot
    of the pine- tree, on which it seeks its food : it is evidently the
    rubro-lineatus of Warden, and probably the ruber of Rafinesque.
    The tamias Lysteri ranges on the eastern side of the Rocky
    Mountains from the 50th parallel down to the Carolinas ; it is
    the tamias americanus described by Kuhl (Beitrage, 69)*.
    Cuvier states, that the t. striatus inhabits both Asia and Ame

    rica ; but we have met with no American animal that resem
    bles Buffon's figure 10, 28, which Cuvier quotes. T. quadri-
    vittatus inhabits the fur-countries, and goes southwards along
    the eastern declivity of the Rocky Mountains to the sources of
    the Platte and Arkansa. T. buccatus is a Mexican animal,

    which differs from the other admitted species of tamias in want
    ing longitudinal stripes and colours on the flanks. We cannot
    help surmising, therefore, that it may be a spermophile, for the
    two genera are very nearly allied, the only material difference
    in the dentition being, that the anterior molar of the upper

    jaw, which falls early in the true squirrels, but remains till old
    age in the tamias, is smaller in the latter than in the spermo-
    philes. The typical species of each differ, indeed, a little in
    the feet ; but t. uuadrivittatus and sp. lateralis possess inter
    mediate characters, which unite the two groups very closely, so
    that we may be prepared to find authors differing as to which
    genus or subgenus certain species ought to be referred. Pte-
    rornys volucella inhabits Canada, the United States, and, ac
    cording to Lichtenstein, Mexico also. Pt. sabrinus and alpi-
    nus, which are not yet fully established as distinct from each
    other, and closely resemble the volans of Siberia, frequent the

                           · Fischer, *yn.

-\
                ON NORTH AMERICAN ZOOLOGY.                            153

forests of Canada, the Rocky Mountains, and the fur countries
up to the 5/th parallel.
The marmots are numerous in North America, particularly
those which enter the subgenus sper mop kilns. These animals
abound in the prairies, which are analogous to the Siberian steppes
near Lake Aral, that are also overrun by sperinophiles ; but the
only species that can be considered as common to the New and
Old World is guttalus of North                        thaend"NseowusClika"ledoofntihae.
This little animal is certainly so        California
                                          similar to

Wolga,that the published figures or descriptions do not afford any
distinctive marks ;                satisfactory comparison of
has yet been made.        but no   probable that Lichtenstein  specimens
                                                               alludes to
                            It is
this species when he says, that there is a spermophile in Mexico
which cannot be distinguished from the Siberian citillus : gut-
tatus was considered by Pallas to be merely a variety of citillus.
Sp. Parryii is the most northern species, being an inhabitant
of the arctic coasts and the Rocky Mountains down to the 58th pa
rallel. Spermophilus lateralis resides on the eastern declivity of
the Rocky Mountains, from the 57th parallel down to the sources
of the Arkansas. Beecheyi comes from Upper California, and
Douglasii, which nearly resembles         a it,
                                                       isand perhaps only a
                   from the adjoining district of the banks of the
local variety,
Columbia. Franklinii, Richardsonii, and Hoodii abound onis
               is
the prairies of the Saskatchewan, the last ranging southwards
to Mexico*, and being perhaps the Mexican squirrel of Seba,
which described as brown, with five or seven longitudinal
whitish stripes. The arctomys griseiis of Rafinesque, founded
on Lewis and Clark's description of Missouri animal, does
not appear very different from sp. Richardsonii. Sp. spilosus,
                Mr. Bennett in            Z"ooplroagiriicealdoPgro"ceoef dthinegsM,issofurorim,
described by    Ludovicianus,      the                         is
California.                        the                            is

has not been described as possessing cheek-pouches. Arctomys
empetra frequents the woods of Canada and the fur countries
           60th parallel, while    monax    bAe.lonbgrsacthoyuMruasrylankdnoawnnd
up to the   southern Atlantic      states.
the more
only from Lewis and Clark's description of Columbia river
animal. The alpine districts of New Caledonia are the abodeby
of marmot named the "whistler", or perhaps more than one  a
a

        it is
species included under this trivial appellation, for the accounts
given of                                   almost equally to the pruinosus
of Pennant,    btyheth"e   traders apply  caligatus of Eschscholtz, and the
                          tarpogan", or     Mr. King in his recent

ochanaganus described and figured

·  Mexican specimens exist in the Museum at Frankfort. Dr. Ruppcl.
154 SIXTH REPORT -- 1836.

narrative of Captain Back's journey. The latter animal agrees
exactly withEschscholtz's in the remarkable post-auricular black
bar, in the general colour, and in the relative length of the fur
on the different parts of the body, but differs in some minor
points, and particularly in its smaller size, which may, how

ever, be owing to its youth.
The only species of the restricted genus »»« which is un
equivocally indigenous to North America* is the mus leucopus
of Rafinesque ; and this so closely resembles mus sylvatictts of
Europe that there are scarcely grounds for impugning the
opinion of the older  naturalists, who            considered it to be the
same species. In my                               not succeed in detecting
                      dissections I did
cheek-pouches, hut Dr. Gapper has discovered cheek-pouches
in a Canadian animal differing in no respect from it in exterior

appearance, which he has therefore named cricetus myoides,
and figured in the Zoological Journal. The nuts leucopus is
found everywhere, from the arctic circle down to the United
States, and some authors state that it is common throughout
the Union ; but Dr. Harris s;iys that it is not found in Massa

chusetts. It readily domesticates itself in the habitations of

man, wherever the mus decumanus, rattus, and musculus, in
troduced from the other side of the Atlantic, have not pene
trated. The myoxus virginicus of Reich, quoted in Fischer's
synopsis, seems very closely allied to mus leucopus ; it is an
inhabitant of the foot of the Alleghanies. The mus nigricans of

Rafinesque is supposed to be merely the common black rat

(rattus).
   The meriones labradorius inhabits America from the 60th

parallel to an unascertained distance southwards. We have
received several examples from different parts of the United
States, and the canadensis of authors has not been proved to be
a distinct species. Rafinesque indicates others, viz., soricinus,
leonurus, hudsonius, megaUrps, and st/lvaticus ; but his notices

are not sufficiently detailed for scientific purposes. Dr. Mit

 chell is equally vague in his account of a meriones sylvatictts.
    Neotoma Drummondii abounds in the Rocky Mountains and

Jloridana in Florida. As these animals resemble the myoxi in
external form, it is desirable to know whether, like them, they
 are destitute of a caecum. They build well-protected nests
 above ground, instead of burrowing like the meadow-mice, and
 appear to be omnivorous, like the common rat, than which
they are even more destructive. Of M. Le Comte's neotoma

   ·A   species  inZhoaobl.itfsroPocr,t  Famine,  in the Straits  of Magellan,  mus magella-
                                         1835.)
nicus.   (King,
       ON NORTH AMERICAN ZOOLOGY.            155

gossipina, which inhabits the southern states, we know no
more than the name. The sigmodoH* hispidum is found on the
banks of the river St. John, which flows between Georgia and
Florida. The ferrugineum inhabits cotton-fields on the Mis
sissippi. Fiber zibethicus ranges from the Arctic Sea nearly to
the Gulf of Mexico.

   Though the various species of arvicola differ in size, aspect,
and in the relative strength of their members, so as to be readily
distinguishable from each other when brought into apposi
tion, it is very difficult to frame specific characters by which
they can be recognised when apart; and it is not therefore
surprising that many nominal species should have been pro
posed, and, what is equally adverse to the interests of science,
that many perfectly distinct animals should have been described
under a common name. Until a revision of the genus has been

accomplished, and American and European examples have been
accurately compared with each other, we cannot admit that any
one species is common to the two countries, as amphihius has
been supposed to be. The majority of arvicol(e in our list be
long to the fur-countries, though some, as riparius and penn-
sylvanicus, extend also far into the United States ; the latter is
the smallest as well as the most common
                                             American species.
A. mbricatus. distinguished by a bright red  stripe on the flanks,
was seen by Mr. Collie in Behring's Straitsf. The georychi,
or lemmings, distinguished from the true meadow-mice by their
thumb-nails and extremely short tails, all belong to the north
ern extremity of the continent, unless the very doubtful spalax
vittatus of Rafinesque, found in Kentucky, shall be hereafter
discovered to belong to this genus. The mynomes pratensis of
Rafinesque requires further examination, as do also his lemmus
talpoides, albovittatus, and noveboracensis, indicated rather
than characterized in the American Monthly Magazine for

1820.

   Though the "gauffres", or pouched rats, abound in all the
prairie lands and sandy tracts of the United States, their hi
story is still very obscure. The species, which are numerous,
have been mostly confounded with the tucan of Hernandez or the
bursariits of Shaw ; but various generic names have been pro

posed, such as geomys, pseudostoma, ascomys, diplostoma, and
saccophoriis. The first figure of the Canada species published
by Major Davies in the Linnean Transactions, represents the
very large cheeks as filled from within and pendent externally,

   · This genus requires further examination.
  t A. Nuttallii appears in Dr. Harlan's list, but we do not know its distinc
tive characters nor its habitat.
156 SIXTH RKPORT -- 1836.

slipping, as it were, from under the common integuments by a
longitudinal slit, and having  their surface    co"veilrend'ywaithriesnhodret
hair. Cuvier, however, says    of this figure,
semblahle dans la nature", the true form, in his opinion, being
that represented in the Transactions of the Berlin Academy,
1822-3, pi. 3, or in the Fauna Boreali- Americana, 18. B.,
where the pouches, running backwards under the integuments
of the cheek, open externally on each side of the comparatively
small true orifice of  gtehIfneetrmhiceoulaathpt,pteeprllraboteidounthc, eingtsriugtheneiffyoaiprnmpge,atr"haenfcaeplsoewu"ch,hiecoshr
is alluded to in the

** double mouth ".
can be filled and emptied only by the fore feet, which do not
seem to be well calculated for such a purpose. Moreover, the
late Mr. Douglas, whose ability as an observer no one will
question, informed me that the pouches are filled from within
the mouth by the action of the tongue, becoming, when fully
distended, pendulous externally ; but when empty being re
tracted like the inverted finger of a glove. Mr. Drummond
also sent me several specimens of different species from various
parts of the United States, some of them prepared with the
empty pouches folded beneath the skin of the cheeks, and others

with them filled and hanging down. Mr. Schoolcraft, on the
other hand, has given a description of a gauffre from personal
Iobservation which corresponds with the view of the matter en

tertained by Cuvier. To reconcile these jarring statements,
adopted both of Rafinesque's genera, geomys and diplostoma in
      Fauna   Boreali- Americana   ; but since the  publication of
the                                the examination  of a consider
that  work I  have ascertained by

able number of specimens that the character of the dentition
is the same in  aalclbc;youctnohtnesoesqfputehecneitmlcyehnesethke-IpyohufacovhremesebxuaItmnioonnweed.cgoennsGuidsee,ormaynasds

Mr. Douglas's

well supported
borealis inhabits the plains of the Saskatchewan, Douglasii and
bulhivorus those of the Columbia ; bursarius is from Canada,

pinetis from Georgia, talpoules from Florida, umbrinus from
Louisiana, Drummondii from Texas, and mexicanus, as its
name imports, from Mexico. Diplostoma fusca and alba of
Rafinesque were brought from the Missouri; but as the spe

cimens were imperfect and the descriptions are equally so, they
must be considered as doubtful*.

   · Rafinesque characterized diplotloma as differing from geomys in the total
absence of a tail, and in having only four toes on each foot ; hut Cuvier says
that his specimens showed five toes, as in geomys; and it is very probable
that the tails had been removed by the Indian hunters in preparing the skins.
All the species that have come under our notice had short tapering tails.
                 ON NORTH AMERICAN ZOOLOGY.  167

Saccomys anthophilus of F. Cuvier has the teeth of geomys,
but he has placed it in a separate genus on account of the sup
posed peculiarity of its pendent pouches ; it is smaller than any
geomys we have seen, and differs from all that we have enu
merated in the greater length of its tail. The cricelus fasciatus
of Rafinesque from Kentucky is probably cither a geomys or
saccomys; but if so, it is peculiar in having ten transverse
black streaks on the back, if indeed this appearance was not
produced, as is sometimes the case, by cracks in mounting the
skin. Apluodontia leporina inhabits New Caledonia and the
banks of the Columbia, where, its skins are used for clothing,
and form an article of traffic.

The beaver ranges on the eastern side of the continent, from
the most northern woods down to the confluence of the Ohio
with the Mississippi ; and it would appear, from a remark of
Dr. Coulter's, that on the western side it descends in the
neighbourhood of the Tule lakes to the 38tb parallel. The pur
pose served in the economy of the animal by the castoreum
and a fatty substance deposited in the adjoining sacs has not
yet been made out. The Canada porcupine (erethizon dorsa-
tum) inhabits the country lying   between the 37th and 67th
parallels. The hoitzlacuatzin of
                                  Mexico is identified by Lich-
tenstein with the synetheres prehensilis* , we do not know

with what propriety ; but if he be correct, it is, if not a solitary
instance, at least very nearly so, of a rodent animal being com
mon to North and South America. The spotted cavy (coelo-
genys) and perhaps a species of cavia and one of ilasyprocta ex
tend from South America to the West Indies and Mexico ; but

in other respects the animals of this numerous order differ
greatly in the zoological provinces of North and South America.
The most northern American hare is lepus glacialis, which

thinly clothed with very short whitish hairs. The incisors are differently
grooved in different species. Geomys bulbivorus and umbrinut have these

teeth quite smooth ; borealis and talpoides have a very fine groove close to the
inner margin of each upper incisor ; Douglasii has fine submarginal grooves
on all the incisors, viz., next to the inner edges of the upper ones and the
outer edges of the under ones ; bursarius and Drummondii have a deep rounded
furrow in the middle of the anterior surface of the upper incisors, in addition
to the fine inner submarginal one. The under incisors are quite plain in
Drummondii, and most likely in bursarius, also, as no mention is made of their
being grooved. In all these species the auditory opening is scarcely percep
                 Geomys or ascomys mexicanus of Lichtenstein has short
tibly elevated.
round ears, with a single central furrow in the upper incisors. A variety of
this is mentioned in Fischer's synopsis. They are inhabitants of the Mexican
uplands, where they lay waste the maize-fields.
   · The island of Cuba nourishes another kind of rodent animal with a prehen

sile tail, named capromys.
158 SIXTH REPORT -- 1836.

frequents the islands of the Arctic Sea, the barren                           gLro.uanmdse, riacnad-
the Rocky Mountains, down to the 60th parallel.
nus inhabits the woods from the Gulf of Mexico to their northern

limits. L. virginianus is found on the prairie lands of the

Saskatchewan and Missouri, and it is said also on the Blue

Mountains of Pennsylvania ; but further investigations are re
                                                  of the same species in      such dif
quisite to prove           the  e"ximstaernsche  hare" from the southern       parts of
ferent localities.
                             A
the United States has been recently described in the Zoological
Proceedings, and it may be this that Dr. Harlan has associated
with the prairie           hare under the name of virginicus.
tnexicaniis is the         name bestowed by Lichtenstein on the               "Lceipttliis"

of   H"ertnoacnhdtlei"z.,  and cunicularius that by which he designates
the                         How far either of thsse species ranges north
wards, or whether they have been compared with the Florida
marsh hare we know not. Lagomys princeps has its abode on
the crests of the Rocky Mountains, where it is probable that
other species will be hereafter detected. Lichtenstein tells us
that cavys are common in Mexico, and some authors have
stated that the common agouti {dusyprocta aciiti) inhabits the
southern extremity of the United States; but F. Cuvier has
separated the latter animal by the specific appellation of caro-
linensis. The lipura hudsonica of Illiger, or hyrax hudsoniiis
of Shaw, must be excluded from the American fauna until we

receive satisfactory evidence of its origin.

                                Ord. EDENTATA.

                                Dasypia hybridus, Df.sm.

This small order may be called South American, the whole
of the animals composing it belonging to that country, except
three or four African or Indian species comprised in the genera
oryctopus       "maaynoi-st.ochLtilci"hteonf stHeeinrn, anadt etzh,e          of some re
marks on   and                                                         close  that the spe
           the                                                        says,

cimens brought home by Deppe accorded exactly with the
tatou mulita of Azzara, which Cuvier refers to the dasypus /-
duct us of Linnaeus. By others the ayo-tochtli is considered to
be the d. peba of Desinarest, and we also find the mexicaniis of
Brisson ranked among the synonyms of d. Encoubert of Des
inarest. The latter author informs us that the hybridus is
common in Paraguay and on the Brazilian pampas. It is the
only example of an animal of this order that has been ascer
tained to enter the North American fauna, though Lichtenstein
conjectures that a myrmecophaga may also be found in Mexico,
namely, the atzca-coyotl or tlal-coyo/l of Hernandez.
              ON NORTH AMKRICAN ZOOLOGY.                                                                     159

                Ord. PACHYDERMATA.

                                                    Dicotyles torquatua, Cuv.

This order is at once remarkable for the magnitude of the ani
is bymals composing the great proportion of extinct species, and the
small number which now exist in the New World. Two genera
               aonly, comprising four or five species, are known in America,
                       ;namely, tapir and dicotyles, both of which belong to the southern

                       azoological province yet there one species, the common pcc-is

                         is it,cari or dicotyles torquatus, which ranges northwards to the
                                                 :Red River, a tributary of the Mississippi, where was observed
Nuttall this probably the coyametl of Hernandez. Dr.                                        is
Harlan states that the tapir also an inhabitant of Mexico,
                                                          is                                          t. it

                                                              ;
without quoting his authority but Dr. Roulin, who has
written very learned and elaborate treatise on this animal,
and figured second American species,                                                        of opinion that the
tapirus americanus ranges from the 35th degree of south lati
tude only to the 12th north, while the new species, pinckachus,
confined to the higher Cordilleras of the Andes, and does not
advance further to the north than the 10th degree. The very
remarkable resemblance between the scull of the Indian tapir
and that of the palceotherium has been pointed out both by
Cuvier and Dr. Roulin.
Fossil elephants and mastodons occur in North America, and
though the present stock of horses, wild and tame, in that
country are believed to have had an European origin, fossil
bones of horses were found by Captain Beechey under the cliffs
of Kotzebue Sound mixed with those of elephants and other
animals. There                                      considerable resemblance in the kinds of
              ?
gnqeaunmaedetrtduep, eidndosrCmuofvouieusern',sdanliindsts--tqhuebiarrte,eol --claerntgeoe   gypsum quarries of Paris,
                is                                                                            wolf, fox, coatis, raccoon,
                                                                                            those now existing in Mexico.
                     a

                                                                                         ?,
                                                                                  s
The genette may be represented in tropical America by bassaris
or gulo barhara, and the dormouse by neotoma; while the
palceotherium and other extinct pachydermata of Montmartre
are allied to the tapir. The other genera are American, but
dicotyles and the felidtE, which form so conspicuous a part of
the existing carnivora, do not occur in Cuvier list.

                                                    Ord. RUMINANTIA.

Cervus alces*?, L. Griff. Cuv.pl.                             Cervus nemoralis, H. Smith, Griff. Cuv.
tarandus*, L. Edw. 51.                                        Dicranocerus furcifer, Eich. F.B.A.pl.
rtrongylocerus, Scares. 247.
macrotis, Rich. F.B.A. 20.                                    Capra americana, Rich. F.B.A.
              Buff.                                           Ovis montana* Id. I.e.
virginiamis,  Gmel.  12, 44.                        Cuv.
mexicanus,                                                    Bos americana, Griff. Cuv. fig.
                     Griff.
leucurus, Dougl. Rich; F.B.A.                                   ,, moschatus, Penn. Arct. Zool.
100 SIXTH REPORT 1836i

Only two species of this order are common to the old con
Iftinent and America, and these have the highest northern range,
namely, Cervus alces and taramhis.  the ovis montana be,
as Cuvier hints, the same with the Siberian argali, it is a third
common species. The North American deer are still very im
perfectly known, and a revision of the species would well repay
the labour of a naturalist who has an opportunity of seeing
them in a state of nature; the deer of the Pacific coast in par
ticular require investigation, as they are known only by imper
fect descriptions, no figures of them having been published nor
specimens brought to Europe*. The reindeer is the most
northern ruminating animal, being an inhabitant of Spitzbergen,
Greenland, and the remotest arctic islands of America. On the
Pacific coast it descends as low as the Columbia river, being,
however, much less common there than in New Caledonia. On
the Atlantic it exists as far south as New Brunswick, while in
the interior its southern limit is the Saskatchewan river. The

different varieties of reindeer ought to be compared with each
other, and detailed dissections of the American kinds are still

wanted. The southern range of the elk is the Bay of Fundy,
on the eastern coast, though it is said to have existed formerly
as far south as the confluence of the Ohio and Mississippi ; but
this report is rendered uncertain by the name elk having been
                          parts of the country to different kinds    of
applied   in   different  all the wooded districts- up to the mouth  of
deer.         frequents
         It
the Mackenzie, in the 68th degree of latitude, but very seldom
appears in the prairies or barren grounds. The wapiti, or
cervus slrongyloceros, does not travel to any distance from the
prairie lands, on both sides of the Rocky Mountains, and not
further north than the 54th parallel. C. macrotis and leucurus
frequent the prairies of the Saskatchewan and Missouri, and,
according to report, the west side of the Rocky Mountains also.
C. virginianus is found from Canada to the Gulf of Mexico ;
nemoralis and mexicanus inhabit the latter country, the former
going southwards to Surinamf . The antilope furcifer abounds
on the prairies of the Missouri, Saskatchewan, and Columbia,
and is believed to range southwards to Mexico. It differs much

   * The following is a list of the deer of Columbia and New Caledonia fur
nished to me by P. W. Dease, Esq., of the Hudson's Bay Company : moose-
deer (c. alces) ; rein-deer (c. tarandus) ; red-deer, or wawaskeesh (c. slrongy
loceros) ; kinwaithoos, or long-tailed deer ; mule-deer ; jumping-deer, or cabree ;
fallow-deer, or chevrcuil. The specific names of the last four have not been sa
tisfactorily ascertained. The antilope furcifer is named white-tailed cabree to
distinguish it from the jumping-deer, in which neither the tail, nor the rump,
is white.

   t Lieut.-Colonel H. Smith, In Griffith's Cuvier.
               ON NORTH AMERICAN ZOOLOGY.                          161

from the true antelopes, and, if it be considered as belonging to
a distinct genus (dicranocerus), it is the only generic form of
this order found in North America which does not exist also in

Europe, unless a second be found in ovibos moschatus, sepa
rated from bos. The copra americana and ovis montana in
habit the Rocky Mountains from Mexico to the northern ex
tremity of the range, and also the maritime Alps of California
and New Caledonia, the former confining itself to the higher
ridges. The musk-ox is peculiar to the barren lands, travelling
in summer over the ice to Parry's Islands ; but though it has
this high range, it does not exist either in Asia or Greenland.
The chief residence of the bison (bos Americanus) is on the
prairie lands, east of the Rocky Mountains ; it frequents the
woods also up to the 62nd parallel, but nowhere approaches
within 600 miles of Hudson's Bay. Though this animal is at
present rarely ever seen to the eastward of the Mississippi, it
is said to have formerly frequented Pennsylvania and Kentucky,
but the   authority for  its ever           ranged to the Atlantic
coast is  by no means    good.      having  not exist in New Cale

                                   It does
donia, though it has crossed the eastern crest of the Rocky
Mountains further south, to the headwaters of the south branch
of the Columbia ;                              Aitlpdso*es(onrot"
towards the coast,  but even in that latitude                      advance
                    a spur of the Californian                      a coun

terfort" connecting them with the Rocky Mountains), which
skirts the Snake River, or south branch of the Columbia, offer

ing apparently an effectual barrier to its further progress west

ward. In the fur countries it does not go to the eastward of

the 97th meridianf-

                         Ord. CETACEA.

   As the cetacea traverse the depths of the ocean in pursuit of
their prey, it is highly probable that many species are common
to the same parallels of the New and Old World. Those that
frequent the Greenland seas are at least entitled to be enume
rated among the animals both of Europe and America ; and in
like manner the cetacea of the North Pacific and sea of Kam-
schatka are common to the latter country and to Asia ; but the
animals of this order are so imperfectly known that we cannot
give the correct geographical distribution of even a single species.

* Named the " Blue Mountains".

t Horned cattle thrive well in America. They were introduced into Upper
California about 70 years ago, and in 1827 the Missions, according to Dr.
Coulter, possessed upwards of 300,000 head, 60,000 being annually slaughtered
to keep down the stock. They are multiplying also very fast on the banks of
the Columbia, where they have lately been introduced by the Hudson's Bay

Company.

VOL. V. 1836.                      M
162 SIXTH REPORT -- 1836.

Dr. Harlan enumerates fourteen of the true cetacea as having
been detected on the coasts of North America ; but on correcting
his list, and striking out the synonyms agreeably with the indica

tions in the Regne Animal, the number is reduced to ten. Of
the herbivorous cetacea two at least enter the North American

fauna, viz., the stellerus borealis, or rytina, which belongs to
the Sea of Kamschatka, and a manatee, that frequents the
mouths of rivers in East Florida. This species has been named
l"attirreosstdriosiitebuy seD,"r.  Harlan ;  but Temminck observes that it is
                                   meaning   thereby, we suppose, that it is not
distinct from one of the ascertained species, senegalensis or
americanns ; the latter, which inhabits the tropical coasts, is
supposed to go as far north as Mexico.
ratTedheinfotlhloewRineggnelisAt nciommaplr,isDeessmtahreesct,etaFcisecahwerh'sichsynaorepsiesn, um&ec,
as extending their range to America; but nothing is less cer
tain than their identification with European species bearing the

same names.

Manatus americanns, Cuv.                           Delphinapterus leucas*, Scoresb. 14.
,, latirmlris, Harlan.                             Hyperoodon Dalei*, Hunt. Ph. tr. 77, 19.
Rytma borealis*, Not. Act. Petr. 13, 13.
Delphinus dclphis*, Lacef. 13, 1.                          ,, anarnichum*, Fabr.
    ,, tursio*, Hunt. Ph. tr. 1787,                Monodon monoceros*, Scoresb. 15.
               18. {nisarnac, Fabr.)               Physeter macrocephalus*, Lacep. 10.
       ,,    canadensis,   Duhamel,     2,  10,4.
Phocxna    gladiator*,    Lacep. 15,  1.                 ,, tnrsio*, Bavcr, Nov. Act. Cur.

,,         communis*, Id. 13, 2.                                          3, 1.
,,
           intermedia, II arl. Ac. Sc. Ph.         Batena mysticctus*, Scoresb. 12.
                                                       ,, nodosa, Bonnat.
                                                       ,, physalis*, Id. 2, 2.
                                                       ,, hoops, Id. 3, 2.

Chamisso, in the Mem. de la Soc. Leopold, &c, v. 12, has
described nine cetaceous animals which frequent the Aleutian
islands, founding his species on the figures and reports of the
natives. (Vide Less.
   We shall conclude               Alan.)          remarks            on the mammalia,
                                   our cursory
with a list of the most northern species.

Cetacea.                                           Ursus arctoB ?

Monodon monoceros. 81$° N. lat.                    Lutra lataxina.                70° N.
                                                   Georj'chus triniucronatus.
Calocephala foetida. 824° N.                                                   J

Phocae alia;.                                      Anicola rubricatus.

Trichechns rosmarus. 80i° N.                       Sorex palustris. -.
Ursus maritimus. 82$° N.
Vulpes lagopus.                                          ,, ForsterL    |
                          t                        Vespertilio- ?
                                                                        L67oor68oN_
Cervus tarandus.          (.80° N.                 Lepus amencanus.
Georychus Hudsonius.                               Fiber zibethicua.    |
                                                                        I
                                                                      -*
Mustela        ?                                   Cervus alces.

Gulo luscus.         |                             Felis canadensis.  66° N.

Lupus occidentalis.       75°N.                    Didelphis Tirginiana. 44° N.
Lepns glacialis.                                   Dicotvles torquatus. 31° N.

Bos moschatua.                                     &anahybridUS-}^-
Mustela enninea. 73J° N.
Georychus grcenlandicus. 71° N.
                ON NORTH AMERICAN ZOOLOGY.                                            163

The species noted as reaching the 80th, or a higher parallel,
have been observed on Spitzbergen or in the neighbouring seas.
We are not aware of any rodent animal having been taken alive
in so high a latitude, but the skeleton of a Lemming was found
on the ice in 81 1° N. by Sir Edward Parry on his memorable
expedition to the northward of Spitzbergen. The same species
exists on the most northern American Islands, and some small

gnawers might have been supposed to inhabit Spitzbergen from

a mustela having been seen there by Captain Phipps's people.
(Voyage towards the North Pole in 1773, p. 58.) The North
Georgian or Parry's islands support those marked as reaching

75° N. with the addition of all the Spitzbergen species, except
the weasel. We thus see that the orders carnivora, rodentia,

fruminantia and cetacea, are represented in the most northern

known lands or coasts, the elides reach 66° N., the marsupiata
44° N., the pachydermata 31° N., and the edentata and qna-
drumana to Mexico.

The following table exhibits the number of North American
mammalia belonging to each order, and two tables, extracted
from Fischer's synopsis, are inserted in a note to furnish the
means of comparison ; but it is to be observed that Fischer
admits many species which still require much elucidation before
they can be fully established. Temminck considers that there
                wIfetllh-diseetesrtimmianteedbespneecaiersly  of mammalia,            and 140
are about 930                                                  correct, North         America
doubtful ones.

nourishes about one-fifth of the known species.

   Note. --An (*) is prefixed to the species whose identity with those of
Europe bearing the same names is not fully ascertained.

Orders, or Families.          Total                             Proper  Common to
                           number of                                to       other

                             species.                         N. Amer.   countries.

                           101

Cheiroptera                                                     17       2 »7
Carnivora..-.                                                   11      11
                                                               38
                    Total             71                        12                ·1
                                      16
                                    19                            3             ·3
                                  207                          70       14
                                                                        27 "11
                           M                                     2
                                                                  1
                                                                10
                                                                  5

                                                              169

                           '2.
164 SIXTH REPORT-- 18.36.

                                    AVES.

   The birds, having always been objects of interest to collect
ors and artists, are better known than the other animal pro
ductions of North America. Edwards at an early period figured
thirty-eight species from Hudson's Bay ; the natural history
appendices to the recent arctic voyages contain full lists of
those which frequent the sea-coasts in the higher latitudes, and
the second volume of the Fauna Soreali-Americana has made
known some new species, which, migrating through the great
central valleys of the Mississippi and Mackenzie, or crossing
the Rocky Mountains from California, had escaped the notice
of the ornithologists of the eastern states *. Good lists are still
wanted of the Labrador and Canadian birds, and also local cata-

                       Note. --An (·) is prefixed to the doubtful species.

                       Ordines et Familirc In Europa.                In toto.  Proprie.              Cum aliii
                                                                                                       terris.

                                                                     1                                   1

                            Carnivora                                22 *7     18 *7                     4
                                                                     16 *3     10 *3                     6
                                                                                                       26
                                                                     28 *1      3 *1                     7
                                                                                4 *4                   31
                                                                     12 *4      9 *4
                                                                     40 *4                            "3
                                                                                                       13
                                                                      3        1                       14
                                                                               6 *3
                                                                     14                              105
                                                                     20 *3

                                                                     156 *22 51 *22

                                       Orbis prlscus.                   America.                            Polynesia.

Ordinei et Famllia?.                                         Cum                              Cum      In   Pro     Cum      Patria
                                             Proprie.1 aliis                   Proprie. aliis        toto.  prie.   aliis   ignou.
                                                                                                                   terris.
                                                           1terris.                          terris

Quadrumana                        78   »20                           68 «12 68 "12                                          » "5
(Carnivora                     !       *35 225
1 Cltetropt.,  Per a.  Besite  S  358  ·11144                        171 ' 110 »(il 31 «4 92 *u 45 «8 7 ·! 19 «3
                                       «lo'l44
Rodentia {Glires)                 151           «15                  108 »27 99 *27 7                21
( Eden., Pachyd., Rumin.       1I 148   *S S5
t Bmta, Betttue, Pecora...                  I   *10                  31 «12 32 "12 2                 33                     1 *1
                                                 '3
Cetacea                           15                                 21 »J 7 »5 14                   11 »2 2 »2             2 »2

                                  678 »83 626 »79                    100 »124346 »120                68 »11 52 *I0 16 »i 25 »1I

   · The natural       history         of Sir John Ross's first voyage, Sir Edward                                      Parry's
third and fourth       voyages,         Sir John Franklin's first journey, and Captain                                  Back's

recent one accompany the respective narratives. Sir Edward Parry's first
                       ON NORTU AMERICAN ZOOLOGY.                                                                                                           165

logues for various districts of the United States, to contribute
towards our knowledge of the geographical distribution of fthe
species ; but with regard to the discovery, description, and illu
stration of the feathered tribes of that country comparatively
little remains to be accomplished. When Wilson's admirable
work appeared, European ornithology could boast of nothing
equal to it*. The Prince of Musignano's highly valuable cri
tical examination of synonymsf, and his publication of new spe-
ciesj, ably supply what Wilson, cut off in the midst of his
career, left incomplete ; and the magnificent book of Audubon,
now in the course of publication, surpasses every attempt of the
kind in any country. Audubon's plates present to us some of
the finest specimens of art, and his ornithological biographies
convey the observations of a whole life enthusiastically devoted to
studying the forms and habits of the feathered inhabitants of the

air. It is announced that his forthcoming volume will contain

a synopsis arranged in conformity with the recent improvements
of science, and also a treatise on the geographical distribution
and migration of the species ; in short, this grand work will
henceforth be the standard of reference for the birds which fre
quent the Atlantic states from Labrador to the Gulf of Mexico,
and eastward to the great prairies.

   Of the birds of Russian America and California we have only

detached notices by travellers, the Appendix to Capt. Beechey's
voyage by Mr. Vigors containing the only scientific list. Up
wards of sixty species are therein noticed ; but it is to be la
mented that the collectors have in many instances omitted to

record the places where the specimens were procured, so that
even their country is in some instances doubtful §. Lichten-

stein's promised Mexican fauna, if it be published, has not
yet reached this country, and there is no other work to which
we can look for a full enumeration of Mexican birds. One
hundred species, however, from that country were character-

and second voyage, and Sir John Ross's second voyage have the natural hi
story appendices published in separate quarto volumes ; while the Fauna Boreali-
Amerkuna, of which three volumes have been published, is intended to supply
the place of an appendix to Sir John Franklin's second journey. The appendix
to Captain Beechey's voyage, though mostly printed off several years ago, is
not    yVeiteiplluobt'lsish"edO.iseaux
    ·                                   de VAmer. septenlr.," Paris, 1807, preceded Wilson's

book, but only two volumes have appeared.
  t Observations       oni1i.8t2h13e8. 2--n6o.Gm--eenCnecalrtaaatluoorgefueNooorftfhWbiliAsrdmosne'sroifcOatnhrneibthiUrodnsloi,tgey&d,cS,JotaLutyernes,..
                                                                                                                                                            Ac. Sc.
Phil., iii. el infra,                                                                                                                                       of Nat.
Hist., New York,                                                                                                                                            Maclu-
rian Lye., No. i. Phil , 1827.
t Continuation of Wilson's Ornithology, V. Y., 2 vols.
§ Since this report was read, we learn that Professor Nuttall has returned
from Upper California with a rich harvest of objects of natural history, and
among the rest with thirty species of undescribed birds, which will be included
in Audubon's work.
160 SIXTH REPORT -- 1S.J6.

ized by Mr. Swainson in the Philosophical Magazine for 1827,
and upwards of one hundred and thirty named by Liechtenstein
appear in the sale-list of duplicates of the collection made for
the Berlin Museum by Herren Deppe and Schiede. As the
authors of these two lists do not appear to have been aware of
each other's labours, some of the species are probably twice
named ; and as we have no means of knowing whether many of
these Mexican birds pass the tropic, or at least frequent the
elevated table-lands, so as properly to enter the North American
fauna, all their names are put in italics. The other parts of the
lists                                      from Audubon's work ; and
that   Ihamvieghbteebne  compiled chiefly  to the species which will be
                         enabled to refer

comprised in the fourth volume, he has obligingly furnished me
with a list of the plates which it will contain. Additions are made
from the other works already quoted. The arrangement adopted
is that proposed by Mr. Vigors, with Mr. Swainson 's alterations,
The extreme range of each species as far as ascertained is noted,
and the birds which have been actually detected in Mexico or

California are distinguished by abbreviations of the names of

these countries.
The similarity of the North American ornithology to that of
Europe is evinced not only by the identity or close resemblance
of the generic forms, but also by a third part of the species
being common to the two faunae. Europe is visited by a few
of the meropicUe, promeropidue, and strut hionidte, families
which have no members in North America ; the mwcicapidee, re
presented in Europe by four species, which go pretty far north,
furnish to the American fauna only the todits viridis and psaris
cayanus, which do not ascend higher than Mexico ; but this family
is amply replaced in America by the tyrannulce, which, though ar
ranged by Mr. Swainson as part of the laniadm, were considered by
previous writers as fly-catchers, and scarcely to be separated from
the Linnean genus musdeapa. North America, on the other hand,
enumerates in its fauna certain families not found in Europe, viz.,
the trochilidcB, psittacidee, rhamphastidce, and trogonidee, but
none of the two latter groups go so far north as to reach the paral
lel of the south of Europe. The subjoined tablehasbeen construct
ed to show at a glance the chief points of agreement or difference
between the two faunae, the terms of comparison being assimi
lated by the omission of the American species which do not attain
the 36th parallel of latitude. The number of species which
compose the corresponding groups of each fauna often coincide
remarkably, and this occurs even in families which have few or

no species common to each country. There is a discordance
with this remark observable in some families of dentirostres,
which is perhaps owing to my imperfect arrangement of the
species. The agreement between the faunae is greatest among
                       ON NORTH AMERICAN ZOOLOGY.                                                                                                                       167

the grallatores and natatores, two thirds of these                                           orders being
common to the two, while                                   in the aggregate of the           other orders
only between one sixth and
                                                           one seventh are common.            As both the
mwteotwioxfciaotiadtihssnhlettoefroeusirnnrtsepsatebaiehnvdoncadeetyihternyswtais,tpaqidbpiuwtseierareesdrrfc-trsobfeoiianfrmiborddtlfohestfepthhratciAeahsrhyteteal,cansvagniegenulotvershibeyceare,oabm,tflhibtiafaugwonvttrrhdemaosirtcoynsohoirmnimmyna,davetnonhewyoyesenwtooidsmgltfpsias,eitmtgthcwaihineienghtmgsrti.abctcethhaeoeriuneandharietuatdrbcietaeeihntsldles,

                       iNumber of                          s          1                      Number of                                                                    i
                         species. 11                       5C                                  species.
                                                                                                                                                                          Se
                                                           1                                 a 1 \\i                                                                    1su
                       £ IIfl
   Names of Families.                 & s.CJ                             Names of Families.
                                              §E B
                                                           o S~ O                                    67 8 8 1 3 1 4 1 Hi
                                                                                             "C o=                                                                        0c
                                         =                 O                                                                                                         a

                       a Go                                                                                                                                             I6
                                                                                                                                                                        u

                                    24 2893  3 41 5 4      9 i'6        PromeropidseJf J     1 3 "3
                                    14 15
                                    19                     143           CohiiTibidEB        15 17                                                                      57 6 61 41 3
                                    14 18                       l'.'! Phasianidae
                                    63 75
                                                                      iStruthionidfe

                                                                                             4

                       TM 54                               8                                 11 11
                                                                                             40 38 24
                       10                                                Rallidse            87 7 7
                       10 14                                                                 12 12
                       15                                                                    40 36 25
                                             2 2 27 6 3 9  2

                                                               1

                       \                                   i

1  Meropidte                1 37 2 I11                     ( ,1 1 2.
                                                                                                          39 ;;s 33

                                               "' * Eight species frequenting
                                                               he Sea of Kamschatka are
                                                         ··· ·xcluded.

Obs. -- In the following lists species which are common to Europe and America
aarreeCotmol.a, prklPaeltadensc,bhyaensdancthoelorfioeTllehosew, inraTgnegmaebmbrinedvceikna,otitoe&ndcs.b--ayreSdiedug.s,reedesPl--anocfhelastituednelu.minTehees,
              *.                                                                                                                                                     references
                                           is
                                                                                                                                                                      &c. --A.,
                                                                                   :
                                                                                       

   --JLABoimesueMtrecnerhoi.xce,f.ay,nB'bsMiyrdeOCsVxr,aoincypioa8tt,hg.[ecoK&,,loicnBg.bgyey,,rlinN&b..yc.----AAu.FdS.IuVw5b.i.Ag,o.no,S,rwsF&,aauicnn--sEaosnqV,.Bi--ogPr.heK, aiiOlnl.i-mgJ.Aoi,tmulriBeonril.riocd--gasincLaaoi.lcfA--hpPtp.Ca,etoanlD.gd,eoipxCnpiaeatl',isoforCZSnaaoiaploe.tl.-.

   Mr. Swainson's five genera of falconid<e arc falco, accipiter, aquila, cymindis, and
tmlen, corresponding to the groups denoted by brackets in the succeeding table and
of his five genera of strigida, the two first, slrix and asio, are indicated by brackets
and the three aberrant ones, nyctea, nyctipeles, and surnia, are each represented by

   single North American species.
a
                                                                                                                                                           ;

                                                                                                                                                                     ;
                            So

                              I
                             a
                            >

     **'

     ^ * J                  «"<Om .
          <
ca   «1   a                 Ml
                                            b
  |too    S                          -.3o --
                                         wJS
 9-HJ
     ^
>    « <.i Eb

  g

                       a"9

 I uoz

<8

                                               5

                                                            o                  i
                                                             ca
                                                           Si

                                                  .«B

                                                  >^5)o*S        o           II
                                                                 "S          Ur'
                                                  fit* °Jnrtrzt1O-J4C^O. OO"*
                                                    K. · 1.

                                                  . «-» OS^
                                                                    .

                                                  j> *S ftTaJ

                                                  is* I rl*- eOn§ £ 1 a*«

                                                  'a fc
ON NORTH AMKRICAN ZOOLOGY.  169

   The generic or subgeneric raptorial forms which are peculiar
to America are sarcoramphus, cathartes* ,ictiniu, morphnus, and
polyborus : some species of harpya and elanus inhabit Africa,
one of them,e/. melanopterus, occasionally appearing in the south

of Europe. A group of owls, named nyctipetes by Mr. Swain-

son, is also African, one species only being North American,
viz., cunicularia, or the singular burrowing owl of the prairies.
With respect to the distribution of species, no American vulture
is common to both sides of the Atlantic, and they all belong
more properly to the tropical fauna, being (with the exception
perhaps of cathartes californianus) merely summer visitors to
the north. Indeed, as their food is carrion, their utility in the
economy of nature is obviously greatest in the warmer latitudes,
where they accordingly abound : none of them go beyond the
54th parallel, and they reach that latitude in the interior prai
ries only, where the summer-heat is considerable. One European
vulture (fulvus) ascends to the 51st degree of latitude in Silesia,
and another (percnojiterus) has been occasionally killed in En
gland. Nearly one third of the American falconidce belong also
to Europe ; several of them, as may be seen by inspecting the
preceding table, range from one end of the New World to the
other, and some, &sfalco peregrinus,pandion haliceetus, aquila
 chrysaeta, and circus cyaneus, may be said to be cosmopolites.
Three of these widely-spread species are types of three of the
five generic groups into which Mr. Swainson divides the family.
The common buzzard of the fur-countries is identical with the
 European one; but its winter quarters in America are on the
 coast of the Pacific, hence it has not hitherto been enumerated
 among the birds of the United States. Elanus dispar so
 closely resembles melanopterus of Africa and southern Europe,
 that the Prince of Musignano hesitates to agree with Temminck
 in pronouncing them to be distinct. On the other hand, the
 goshawk of the New World, though considered by some orni
 thologists as identical with the European one, is judged by

 Mr. Swainson to be a peculiar species, for which Wilson's ap
 pellation of alricapillus ought to be retained ; the differences
 of their plumage are pointed out in Sir William Jardine's edi
 tion of Wilson. In the same work, the nauclerus furcatus is re

 corded as having been killed in England. On the authority of
 the Prince of Musignano, also quoted there, we have considered
 the accipiter Stanlei of Audubon as identical with Cooperii.
 The owls, as we have already noticed, though much less mi-

   * Calharlts, or neophron percnoptertu, of the European fauna, is considered
by Mr. Swainson to be only a subgeneric form of vullur.
170 SIXTH RKPORT 1636.

gratory than either the vultures or falcons, are even more
widely diffused. Two thirds of the North American speciet
are found in Europe, and Jiammea, olus, and brachyotus, all
belonging to the typical genus, are spread over the whole
world. As in the case of the falconidte, the species entering
the subtypical generic group are mostly confined to particular
countries, while the aberrant genus nyctipetes, like cymindit,
is mostly South American, one species only (cunicularia) ex
tending from the 40th degree of south latitude by the valley of
the Mississippi, to an equal degree north of the equator. Though
the American ornithologists have all considered their struv ottis
to be actually the same with the European species, Cuvier says
that the one figured by Wilson, 51, fig. 3, (and 19, fig. 1,
young), is different, while he considers the mexicana (clamatory
Vieill., longirostris, Spix,) to be merely a dark variety of th«

European bird*. Strix cinerea of Latham, Bonaparte, and tb
Fuuna Boreali- Americana is identified by Temminck with hi

lapponica.

                          Typ. ord. INSESSORES.

                          Sub. typ. tribe, Dentirostres.
                                   Fam. Laniao/E.

Lanius  ludovicianus,  VAi.g.57.23°MeNx..--L3i8c°hNt..  Tyrannus intrepidus, A. 79. Mex. Sw.--
             Sw. CaU
                                                              57° N.
,, excubitor* A. 192. 32° N.-- 60° N.                     ,, borealis, A. 174. 38° N.-- 53° N.
,, excubitorides.F.B.A. 34. ?-- 54°N.                     ,, duniin iraisis, A. 170. Mex. Sw.
                  F.B.A.  ??----5500°°  N.
,,      elegans,  Lath.                 N.                ,,     20° N.-- 35° N.       36°  N. --
,,      nootka,                                               cinereus, Vig. CaL

Thamnophilia canadensis, enl. 479. 2. Ca                      38° N.

           nada! ? (turdwt cirrhattis,Gm.)                ,, crinitus, A. 129. 23° N.-- 42° N.
,, dolia/us,enl. 297. 2. 2° N.-- Mex.                     ,, verticalis, A. 398. Arkans. 36° N.
                                                          ,, ferox, enl. 571. f. 1. 2° N.-- Mex.
          LfCHT.
Uypothymis mexicana, Licht. Nov. Gen.                              Licht.

Sauropliayn--s sSuwlp.huLriacthust,. enl. 296. 25° S.     ,, crassirostris, Sw. Mex. ladle I.

Ptilioyonya cmereus, Sw. Table I. Mex.                    ,, voctferans, Sw. Mex.
                                                        Milvulus savannus,             M2°eNx..----4340°°
,, nitens, Sw. Mex.                                           ,, forficatus,  A. 168.                      N.
                                                                              A. App.                      N.

· Though many foreign owls, and, among others, four Australian ones,
castanopt, personala, cyclops, and delkatulvs, of Gould, were formerly con
founded w'\\h flammea, causing it to be considered as quite a cosmopolite, its
range is actually very extensive, there being no difference,
minck, in the species as existing throughout Europe and                       according to Tem
                                                                              Asia, the whole of
northern and tropical Africa, and in Japan. The North American barn-owls,
he says, differ only in a few               darker tints      of the plumage
American ones are distinct.                                                   ;  but the    South
                       ON NORTH AMERICAN ZOOLOGV.                                                                                 171

Tvraiinnla Wrens, A. 115. Mex. Licht.                                                           Tyrannula Selbii, A. 9. Limit. >-- 32° N.
                Cuba. 29° N.-- 50" N.                                                               cayenensis, nil. 569, 2. 2° N.--
                                                                                                ,,     Mex. Sw. Licht.
     ,, fusca, A. 120. Mex. Licht.-- 57°
                                                                                                    affinis, Sw. Mex. maritime.
                   N.
                                                                                                    barbirostri», Sw. Mex.
      ,, acadica, A. 145. Mex. Sw.-- 50°
                N.                                                                                  nigricans, Sw. Mex. table I.

     ,, Richardsoiiii, F.B.A. 46, 2. ?--                                                            viusica, Sw. Mex.
                50°-- 60° N. (Labrad. Aud.)
                                                                                                    omnia, Sw. Mex.
     ., Saya, A. 399. Mex. Sw.-- 54° N.
              prairie:                                                                              obscura, Sw. Mex.

     ,, pusilla, A. app. Mex. Sw. --56° N.                                                          despotes, Licht. Me x.
     ,, coronata, eiiL 675, 1. Mer. Sw.                                                             obsolela, Licht. Mex.
                                                                                                    /areata, Licht. Mer.
              Ltcht. CalVia. 2° N.-- 38° N.                                                         mesoleuca, Licht. Mex.
      ,, scmi-atra, Vig. Cal. 38° N.                                                                a'rata, Licht. Mex.
     ,, TraillU, A. 45. ?-- 36° N. Arkans.
                                                                                                    pallida, Sw. Mex.

                                Fam. MERULID.E.
Cinclus amcricanns, A. 374. Mex. Sw. --
                                                                                                Orpheus narvius, F.B.A. 38. Cal Nootka.
             57" N.                      Cal. --                                                               36° N.-- 66° N. Vig. Cook.
        iuigratoria*,                                                                                           116. 30° N.--
Merula                 A. 131.  Mex.                                                            ,,  rufus, A.  A. 128. Mex.    54° N.   --
                                                                                                ,,  felivox,
              67° N.   Pall.                                                                                                   Licht.
          aurorea*,
,,                            Kodiak.    58° N.                                                        A54° N.

          Tf.mm.                                                                                ,, polyglottus, 21. 25° S.-- 44° N.
,, Vilsonii, A. 164. 25° N.-- 57° N.
                                                                                                    Mex. Sw.
                                                                                                ,, leucoptems, Vio. Cal. 38° N.
,,        minor*, F.B.A. 36.  M2e5x°. NL.--ich54t.°N--.                                         ,, curvirostris, col. 441. Sw. Mex.
,,        imistelina, A. 73.                                                                    Tardus* erythrophthalmus, Licht. Mex.

          50° N.                                                                                    deflexus, Licht. Mex.
          solifaria, F.B.A. 35. 27° N.--                                                            hehohis, Licht. Mex.
                                                                                                ,,
          50° N.                                                                                ,,
,, silens, F.B.A. Mex. Sw. table I.
,, fiavirnstris, Sw. Mex. table I.                                                              Mvotliera obsolcta, A. 400. Arkans. 35° N.
                                                                                                Icwria firidis, A. 137. 23° N.--44° N.

,, tristis, Sw. Mex. tableland.

                                Fam. SYLVIAD.E.

Saxicola  cenauthc*, Behr. Str. ? Vig.                                                          rSylvicolavermivora, A. 34. 23° N.-- 42°
Erythaca                                                                                               N. (sub y.   Vermivora, Sw.)
          siGIanrldies.e,--nAi..4S81a°1b3N.in. eMS,iea(xlci.eanaLnWitcbUhosidto.ensi.iI).t".        solitaria, A.  20. Mex.-- 41° N.

                                                                                                    chrysoptera, A. 15, 2. 23° N.
          aretica, F.B.A. 39. New Cal. 44°                                                             --50° N.
,,                                                                                                  protonotaria,  A. 3. 23° N. --
            N-- 68° N.
,, cceru'.eo-collis, Vig. Cal.. 38° N.                                                                  38° N.
,, mexicana, Sw. Alex.                                                                              rubrical iiUa, A. 89.      23° N.--
A lit ti us aquaticus*, nil. Gul, 2. Greeni.                                                                                   23° N.--
          N. Am. Tem.                                                                                   55° N.
,, ludovicianus, F.B.A. 44. 24° N.                                                                  pcregrina, A. 154.

          --63° N. {ruber, Gm.)                                                                         55° N.
MPaortea,,scQblaicpoillpoeirnc*nc,os,pAtA.cr.3a9,8.0V. GigNr.e.eICnVai..lipfL.raaitrihe.s. 30°      celata, A. 178. 21° N.-- 50° N.
                                                                                                    Swainsonii, A. 198. 23° N.--

,,           N.-- 70° N.      1G0.  30°  N. --                                                          33° N.
          carolinensis, A.
                                                                                                    aes--tiva6,8°A.N9. 5. Mex. Sw. 20° N.
                                                                                                    amerieana, A. 15. Mex. Sw.--

          36° N.                                                                                    46° N.

,, atricapUliis, A. 36° N.-- 65° N.                                                                 autumnalis, A. 88. 23° N.--

,, hudsonicus,A.194.44°N.-- 57°N.                                                                   48° N.

   · Merula and orp/ieus of Mr. Swainson correspond with turdus of authors;
the latter name is retained for Liechtenstein's species, as we do not know to
which of the former to refer them.
172 SIXTH REPORT -- 1836.

Sylvicola coerulea, A. 48. Mex. --40° N.                      --Setophaga mitrata, A. 110. 23° N.
    ,, carbonata, A. CO. Kentucky.                                         52° N. (cucullala.)
             38° N.                                           ,,        minuta, A. App. 23°     N.-- 40°  N.
                                                              ,, pieta, Sw. Mex. ZooL III., 2, 54.
    ,, castanea,A.69.24°N.-- 44° N.                           ,, miniata, Sw. Mex. table I.
    ,, discolor, A. 14. 23° N.-- 43° N.
             formosa, A. 38. Mex.-- 38°    N.                 ,, rubra, Sw. Mex. table I.
    ,,       icterocephala, A. 59. Trop.  ?--                 ,, rufijrons, Sw. Mex.
    ,,                                                        Trichas marilandica, A. 23, Mex. Sw.
             Canada ?.
                                                                           CaL Vig.--     A50.°ApNp. .(p?e--rso4n0a° laN.).
    ,,       maculosa, A. 50, 123. Cuba,                      ,,        Philadelphia,

               Vio.--55° N.
    ,, pensilis, A. 85. Cuba. Vig. Mex.                          --,, Roscoc, A. 24. Mississ.

                                                              Accentor auricapillus, A. 143.
             Sw. Licht.-- 36° N.                                                                W. Ind.
                                                                        Mex. Lath. Sw. table L
    ,, rara, A. 49. ?-- 43° N.
    ,, Kathbonia, A. 65. Mississ.                                            55° N. (sub. g. Sehtrus, Sw.)
    ,, Childrenii, A. 35. Louis.                                   ,, aquaticus/WiLs. 23, 5. F.B.A. 43.
    ,, Bachmanii, A. 185. S. Car.
    ,, BlackbuniiR", A. 135. Mex. Sw.                                        Mex. Sw.-- 64° N.
             Cuba.-- 54° N.
                                                              Cuhcivora coerulea, A. 84. Mex. Licht.

                                                                             -- 43° N.
                                                              Sylvia calendula, A. 195. 24° N.-- 70° N.
    ,, palmarum, Bon. 10, 2. W. Ind.                                    Greenl. Bon. (sub. g. Reguha.)
              18° N.--48° N.                                  ,, Cuvierii, A. 55. 40° N. prairies.
                                                                        tricolor, A. 183. 23° N.-- 54° N.
    ,, agilis, A. 138. 23° N.-- 44° N.                                  trochilus*, enl. 651, 1. N. Am,
    ,, canadensis, A. 155. Cuba. 20°
              N.-- 54° N.                                     ,,
                                  CCaul.baV. igV.i--o.        ,,
             coronata, A. 153.                                          Temm.
    ,,
                Mex. Licht.
             20° N.-- 56° N.
    ,, pams, A. 134. 23° N.-- 52° N.                                    Fam. AMPELID^.

    ,,       petechia, A.  145.24°N.--   In5d5.°N--.          Bombycilla carolinensis, A. 43. Mex.
    ,,       sphagnosa,    A. 148. W.                                      Licht. 2° N.-- 56° N.

             20° N.-- 46° N.                                        ,,    garrula*    A.  303. ?-- 67° N.      --
                                 AWp.pI.nd?.----4504°°        Vireo     solitarius,  A.
    ,,       striata, A.  1 33.   Mex. Licht.           N.                                23. Mex. Licht.
    ,,       maritima,     A.
             wens, A.     393.                          --N.            39° N.
    ,,
             50° N.                                           ,, ]io--vi'b4o5r°arN('.iisis,A.63..Vfti'.LicHT.
    ,, tigrina, Wils. 44, 2. ?-- 45° N.
    ,, inornala, Sw. Mex.                                     ,, flavifrons, A. 1 19. 23° N.-- 46° N.
                                                                        gilvus, A.              NM.--ex4. 6°SwN..--
/,,          pclasodes, Licht. Mex.                           ,,        olivaceus,   1 18. 23°
         ,,  cidicitora, Licht. Mex.                          ,,
                                                                                      A. 150.
                                                                        55° N. (iiimcaltiloqua, Viril.)
           ,, varia, A. 90. Mex. Sw.-- 50" N.                     ,, Bartramii, F.B.A. Braz. S. Car.
1 ,, pinus, A. 140. 24° N.-- 50° N.
Setophaga ruticiUa, A. 40. 2° N.-- 62° N.                               New Caled.-- 49° N.

                 Mex. Sw.                                         ,, Vigorsii, A. 30. Penns.
             canadensis, A. 103.
,,                                Cuba,  Vig. --                   Fam. MUSCICAPID^E.

             55° N.                                           Todus tiridis, enl. 585. W. Ind. Mex.
,, Bonapartii, A. 5. 23° N.-- 34° N.                          Psaris cayanus, enl. 304, 307. 2° N. Mex.
,, Wilsonii, A. 124. 35° N.-- 58°
                                                                           Licht.
         N. (muscicapa puailla, Wils.)

   As the food of the raptorial order of birds, though variable
in quantity in different localities, must be almost everywhere
very similar in quality, it excites no surprise when we discover
that many species are common to different quarters of the
world, especially those entering the typical and subtypical
groups which prey on quadrupeds and birds, taking them alive.
But we are led to expect that the distribution of birds which
feed on the fruits of the earth, should be influenced in a greater
degree by climate, soil, and consequent fertility of the land :
ON NOItTH AMERICAN ZOOLOGY.                               1^3

and as temperature, moisture, and richness of vegetation have a
manifest connection with the abundance and variety of insects,
we look to find the insectivorous birds of the several continents
                                             Mr.
nearly as different as  t"heitiris  floras.       Swainson has indeed
already remarked that                among   the  insectivorous or soft-

billed birds that the principal ornithological features of any ex
tensive region will be traced." These observations receive a
general support by a review of the extensive and varied order of
insessores which in North America form three fifths of the

birds ; and though the hirundinidae, which are purely insectivo
rous, exhibit in the table a large proportion of species common
to the two continents, there is, as we shall mention again, reason
to doubt the identity of the species in the two faunae. Two or
three species of carnivorous corvidce are with more certainty the
same on both sides of the Atlantic, and also several hard-billed
granivorous birds (JringillifUe) that breed in the arctic re
gions, the physical conditions of which are almost the same in
all longitudes, though below 65° N. latitude the aspect of the
two continents differs
   Dentirostres. -- In  greatly.             arrangement  of Mr. Vigors,
                        the quinarian
this is one of the five tribes into which the insessores, or perchers,

are divided, each tribe containing five families. Of the laniadtv,
a normal family of the tribe, only one species stands in our list
as common to the new and old continents, and it is so marked in

accordance with the opinions of Wilson and Audubon, but con
trary to those of Vieillot, Bonaparte, and Swainson. This and
the other North American lanii are certainly very similar in
form to their European congeners, which may be accounted for
by their approaching the rapaces in their mode of feeding, and

being less exclusively insectivorous than the tyranince, associ

ated with them by Mr. Swainson, which are proper to America.
The merulidtie, the other normal family of the tribe, contains
three American species which have been enumerated in the
European fauna, one (merula migratoria) because of its occa
sional appearance in Germany, and the other two, m. aurorea
arid minor, on account of the capture of one or two individuals
in Saxony and Silesia. Of the numerous family of sylviada we
scarcely know more than one species which has an undisputed
right to be marked as common to both sides of the Atlantic.
Sasicola cenanthe, hitherto detected only in the higher arctic
latitudes of America, may prove on further acquaintance to be
distinct from the more southern European bird bearing the same
name. Indeed Mr. Vigors has named it aenanthoules, being
led to consider it to be a proper species, more from its distant
habitat than from any peculiar character detected in the speci
174 SIXTH REPOKT -- 1836.

mens from Behring's Straits submitted to him : it was found in
Davis's Straits by Captain Sabine. Two species of anthus
existing in America appear to have been confounded under the
name of aquations : one of them identified by Temminck with
the European species ; the other, having a much more brown
under plumage, is figured in the Fauna Boreali-Americuna under
the name of aquaticus, but, as the author last-named has ob

served, it is in reality a distinct species. It was indeed described
as such by Latham under the appellation of the Louisiana lark,
and the Prince of Musignano in adopting the specific name of
ludovicianus, was led to deny the existence of the true aquati
cus in America. Opinions vary as to the identity of parus atri-
capillus with the palustris of Europe. The American and

European gold-crests (reguli) have                 also been confounded   though
they are now held to be distinct.                                        that the
                                                   It is to be noticed
pari and reguli are typical examples of their respective groups,
the pariance or titmice-warblers belonging to America chiefly,
while the sylviaiue are mostly European warblers. Temminck
states that the sylvia trochilus belonging to his group of mus-
civores or to regulus of Cuvier, exists precisely the same in
North America as in Europe, but it has not as yet found a place
in the works of the North American ornithologists. Bomby-
cilla garrula is the only one of the ampelid<s which is common
to the two continents, and its manners and the extent of its

migrations as well as its form and plumage are absolutely the
same on both sides of the Atlantic. The vireones which feed on

insects, or, when these are scarce, on the berries of the myrica

cerifera, are confined to the New World. Of the viuscicapidce
several species belong to the European fauna, but there are no
typical ones in America agreeably with Mr. Swainson's views of
the constituents of the family : within the tropics and in Mexico
we find psaris cayanus, a typical black-cap, and todns viridis,
considered by him to be a fissirostral form of the broad-billed

fly-catchers.

               Typ. Tribe, Conirostres.

               Aber. fam. Fiiingillju.k.

Alauda alpestris*, A. 200. Mex. Sw.--              Emberiza Townsendii, A. 369. Philad.

                       68° N. (corrwta,  Wils.)        40° N.
                                         38" N --
    ,, glacialis, Licht. Mex.                              pusilla, A. 139. 30° N.-- 45° N.
Plectrophanes nivalis*, A. 189.                           pallida, F.ll.A. ?-- 55° N.
                                                   ,, socialis, A. 104. Mex. Sw.--
75° N. 81° N. Spitzb.
lapponica*. A. 370. 44° N.--
                                                       45° N.

                        70° N. (calcarata, Tbm.)   ,,  melodia, A. 25.   3G0°v.N.?----5550°'  N.
              picta, F.B.A. 49. ?-- 54° N.         ,,  oonalaschkensis,                       N.
Emberiza canadensis, A. 188. Cal. Vio.
36° N.-- 60° N.                                    ,, mexicana, ml. 386. 1. Mex.

                                                   ,, pusio, Licht. Mex.
                  ON NORTH AMERICAN ZOOLOGY.                                                  175

f Fringilla palustris, A.M. 30°N. --14°N.           Euphone tibieen, Licht. Mex.
                                                          ,, rufiventris, Licht. Braz. Cal.
     N._,, iliaca, A. 108. 30° N.-- 68° N.                              25° S.-- 36° N. (Saltator,

       ,, leucophrvs, A. 114. 28°
                      68° N.                                            Vio.)
,,            grammaca, Bon. 5,      3.  Mex. --    Tiarit punilla, Sw. Mex.

              40°N. prairies, (strigata,            Spermagra erythrocephala, Sw. Mex.
                                                    Coccothraustes vespertine, F. B. A. 68.
,,                   Sw.)      A. 8.     23° N. --
              pennsylvanica,                                            45° N.-- 54° N.
              66° N.                                        ,, ludovicianus, A. 127. Mex.
        gramineM.94. 30"N.--57°N.
,, hyemalis*, A. 13. Cal. Vig.                                              Sw. 56° N.

               30° N.-- 57°N.                       ,,           ccerulea,^.122.,Jfer.Sw.420N.
                                                    ,,
                                                                 cardinalis, A. 159. Mex. Licht.
                                                                 23° N.-- 42° N.
,, arctica, Vio. Cal. Unalasch.                     ,, fcrreo-rostris, Vig. Cal. 36° or
               36° N.-- 55° N.                                   38° N.
              meruloides, Vio. Cal. 37° N.
              crusalis, Vig. Cal. 36°, 38° N.       ,, melanocephala, Sw. Mex.
,, amoena, Bon. 6. f. 5. 37° N.                     ,, chrysCoupmeluinsg, .Zool. pr. 15. Mex.
                    prairies.
,,            cvanea, A. 44.   Mex.   ?-- 45° N.    if Linaria   frontalis, Bon. 6. i. 1. Mex. Sw.

              oris, A. 53, 1. 25° S.-- 36° N.       L,,          38° N. (Hamorrhous, Sw.)
              caudacuta, A. 149. 33° N.--                  ,,    purpurea, A. 4. 30°    N.--  55°     N.
                                                                 tcplirocotis, I'.B.A.               53°
              44° N.                                                                     50.  ?--

              maritima, ^.93. 30° N.--44°           ,, boreNal.is*{,suVb.iegi.l.Leguacl.o6st5i.ctReo.)ux,

              N.                                                 101. Greenl. Japan, Temm.
,, bimaculata, Sw. Mex. table I.
,,            einerea, Sw. Mex.                                       52° N.-- 68° N.
,,            epopaa, Licht. Mex.                   ,,           americana, A. 354.         ?-- 44°  N.
,,            rhodocampter, Licht. Mex.             ,, passerina, A. 130. 23° N.-- 45°
,,            supereiliaru, Licht. Mex.                          N.
                                                    ,, Bachmanu, A. 165. ?-- 35° N.
,,            lepida, LXicht. W. Ind. Mex.          ,, Henslowii, A. 70. 30' N.-- 37°.
,,            h&morrhba, Licht. Mex.                             N.
,,            melanoxantha, Licht. Mex.
Pipillo erythrophthalma, A. 29. 23° N.--            ,, savanna, ^.109. 30°N.-- 52° N.
              48° N.                                ,, Lincolnii, A. 193. ? 40° N.--
                                                                 52° N.
,, aretica,F.JB.^.61,52.?-- 55°N.
,, maeulata, Sw. Mex.                               Carduelis tristis, A. 23. Mex.-- 60° N.
                                                                 pinus, A. 180.       32° N.-- 52°
,, macronyx, Sw. Mex.                               ,,           psaltria, Bon.       6. f. 3. Mex.  ?N--.
,, fusca, Sw. Mex.                                  ,,
                                                                 R. Platte.
,, rufescens, Sw. Mex.                              ,, mexieana, Sw. Mex. U.St. Acd.
              mexieana, L. enl. 290. 2, 155. 1.
Tanagra          ignicapilla, Licht. Mex.                    ,,  caloil, Gmkl. Mex.         50° N.--
                 gnatho, Licht. Mex.                Pyrrhula     enucleator*, A. 358.
        ,,       yrandis, Licht. Mex.
        ,,       auricoUis, Licht. Mex.             Loxiac,,urviroinsotrraa6*a3t°a,N.4.V.i1(g9C.7o.rCya4th0l.°u3sN8, °.--CNc.5v7.°) N.
        ,,       erythromelas, Licht. Mex.          ,, leucoptera*, A. 368. 40° N.--
        ,,       abbas, Licht. Mex.                             68° N.
        ,,       rutila, Licht. Mex.
        ,,     celamo, Licht. Mex.
          ,,  aativa, A. 44. Mex. Licht.

         ,,                                             Typ.fam. Corvid^.
Pvranga
            42° N. (P/uenisoma, Sw.)
,, rubra, Wils. 11 f. 3,4. Mex.                     Corvus corax*, A. 101. Cal. Vig. 26° N.
              49° N.                                                       --74° N.
,, ludoviciana, Wils. 20. 1 , 2° N.
              --42° N. prairies.                            ,, corone*, A. 156. 26° N.-- 55°N.
,, livida, Sw. Mex.                                         ,, ossifragus,^.146.24°N.-^0°N.
,, hepatica, Sw. Mex.                                       ,, columbianus, A. 397. 46° N.
,, bidvnlaln. Sw. Mex.
Euphone jacarina, enl. 224. 3, Braz. Mex.           ,,                  Pacific.  L.  Mex.  Licht.
                   Licht.                                        mexicanus,
                                                    ,, morio, Licht. Mex.
1/6 SIXTH REPORT -- 1836.

Pica caudata*, A. 358. 40° N.-- 58' N.                Agelaius xanth--oc5e8p°haNlo.s, A. 396. Mex.
            prairiet. (Corpus pica.)
                                         Mex. Licht.  ,, mexicanus, Edw. 243. Afar.
,,  pBeereucvhieai,naV, ige.nl.M6e2x5..               ,, longipes, Sw. Afar, tablet.
,,                                       Montereale.
,,  Colliei, Vig. Mex. San Bias.
                                                      ,, Bullockii, Sw. Afar.
Garrulus Bullockii, A. 96. Mex. Col.                  Sturnella ludoviciana, ^/. 136. Afar. Sw.
            Bon. 46° N. (gubernatrix,                                   Licht. Cal. Vig.-- 56° N.
                                                      ,, holosericea, Licht. Mex.
                 col. 436.)                           Xanthomas baltimore, A. 12. Mex. Sw.
,, floridanus, A. 87. 25° N.--                                        Licht.--
            31° N. (Cyanurus, Sw.)                                              55°  NN..--49°
    Stellcri, F.B.A. 54. Mex. Bon.                    Icterus  spurius, A. 42.  2°              N.
,,       --57° N.
                                                      ,, mexicanus, Leach, ZooLMisc. 2.
,, cristatus, A. 102. 25° N.--                                 Mex. Sw.
                                                      ,, dominicensis, enl. 5. 1. W. Ind.
            56° N.
,, californicus, Vig. Monterey.                                Mex. Sw.

            36° N.                                         ,, cucuttatus, Sw. Mex.
                                                           ,, melanocephalus, Sw. Mex.
,,  coronafus, Sw. Mex.                                    ,, crassirostris, Sw. Mex.
,,
    azureus, col. 108. Mejr. Licht.                       ,, gularis, Licht. Mex.
,, formosus, Sw. col. 436. Mex.                           ,, calandra, Licht. Mex.
            Temiscalt.
,,  canadensis, A. 107.                  42° N.--     CasHcus coronatus, Sw. Mex.

            68° N. (Dysornithia.)                     Quiscalus versicolor, A. 7. Jf. Ind. 57° N.
                                                           ,, major, A. 187. W. Ind. Mex.
    Sub-typ.fam. Sturnidje.
                                                                             35° N.
Molothrus pecoris, X99. Mex. Sw. 56°N.
                                A. 54. Mex.   Sw.          ,, dives, Licht. Mex.
Dolichonyx  agr--ipe5n4°nisN,.  (oryzivora,  Sw.)          ,, palustris, Sw. Mex.
                                                      Scolecophagus ferrugincus, A. 157. 24° N.
                                                               --68° N.
Agelaius phccnicVeuigs,.--A5.66°7.N.Mex. Sw. Cal.
                                                      ,, mexicanus, Sw.

    Conirostres. -- Most of the North American species of this,
which is the typical tribe of insessorial birds, belong to the/r/w-
gillidcE, one of the aberrant families. The two normal families
also include a tolerable number of species, but the two remaining

aberrant families (musophagidce and buceridte) have no members

in North America. Among the fringillidee we find one alauda,
twoplectrophanes, one fringilla, two linarice, one pyrrhula, and
two loxiee, common to the two countries. In addition to these the
alauda calandra of the south of Europe is noted in the Fauna
Boreali- Americana as having been taken at Hudson's Bay, but
as the only authority is a specimen in the British Museum of
not very certain origin, it is omitted in the preceding list. The
perfection of ornithological structure is to be found, according
to Mr. Swainson, in the corvida, the typical family of the coni
rostres, or typical tribe of the insessorial or typical order. The
raven, which is a typical example of the genus corvtis, is common
to the four quarters of the world, and most ornithologists con
sider the carrion crow and the niiigpie of America to be the same
with those of Europe. Mr. Audubon, however, describes the
former as a peculiar species under the name of americanus, and
Mr. Sabine has treated the magpie in a similar manner, though
he has not been followed by subsequent writers : -- it is certain
that he has failed in pointing out any constant or appreciable
                 ON NORTH AMERICAN ZOOLOGV.                                                                                                                     177

differences of plumage, but there is something peculiar in the
habits of the American bird which frequents the interior prairie
lands, and does not approach the sea coast as in Europe, nor does

it go to the north of the 58th parallel, though the European bird

extends to Lapland. Further observations are required to prove
that the differences in the form and size of the eggs noted in the
Fauna boreali-americana are constant. The common magpie
abounds in Japan, as Temminck informs us. The sturnidce are
more numerous in America than in Europe, and are all proper
to the country.

                                Aher. tribe, Scansores.

         Typ.fam. Picid*.                                                                                            Macrocercus aracanga, enl. 2. 2° N. --
                                                                                                                                 Mex. Licht.
Picus principalis, A. 66. 25° N.-- 37°N.                                                                                                               Mex. Licht.
,, tridactylus*. A. 132. 40° N.--                                                                                    Psittaoara  carolinensis, .4.26.

                                                                                                                                      --42° N.
           68° N. {americanus, arcticus).                                                                            ,, guianmsis, Spix. 25. 2° N.--
    'pubescens, ^.112. 30° N.-- 58° N.                                                                                           Mex. Licht. {Agapornis,

     villosus, A. 360. Cal Vig. 28° N.                                                                                                      Sw.)
                                                                                                                                  pertinax, ml. 528. 25° S. Mex.
         63° N.
                                                                                                                                       Licht.
    querulua, A. 353. 30° N.-- 36° N.                                                                                Psittacula mexicana, Gmel., Licht.
    carolinus, A. 391. 19° N.-- 16°N.

    .Tarius,^. 190. Mex. Sw.--61° N.                                                                                     Aber.fam. Ramphastid^.
    formicivorus, Col. 451. Mex.                                                                                     Pterot/lossws pavaninus, Zool. Pr. 34. Mex.
,,      Licht.                          Vig. 36°N.                                                                   Ramphastos pcecilorhynchus, Licht. Mex.
                 Sw.            Calif.  San Bias.
,,  scapularis,  Vig.           Mex.
,,
,,  ? olegmeus, Liciit. Mex.
    ?poliocephalus, Licht. Mex.
               EAdw.\.l\6.5.     N. Am. Tf.mm.                                                                           Aber.fam. Cuculidje.
,,  canus*,                     Mex. 63° N.                                                                                                            ?-- 45°
,,  pileatus,                                                                                                        Coccyzus americanus*, A. 2.       A. 32.   N.'.--
CMoellaa,,piiteerspcmasuerxatiotcur--aqsn,uu1aAs9t,°.us3NV,7..igA(..2c5o39°l9l.a5Nr.iMs.--,3e0xV6°.3ig°N.C.)Na--.l.        ,, erythrophthalnius,
                                                                                                                                 45s N.
                                                                                                                                 seniculus, A. 169. 2° N.-- 25° N.
                                                                                                                                                        NL..--Mex.
         40° N.                                                                                                      ,,          mexicanus, Sw. Table
,, ervthr--oc5e0pshaNl.ns, A. 27. 24' N.                                                                             ,,          cayanus, enl. 211. 2°
,, ruber, Cal. Vig. Nootka. Cook.                                                                                                Licht.
                                                                                                                         ,, viaticus, Licht. Mex.
               2° N.-- 50° N.                                                                                        Cntophaga ani, enl. 182, 1, 2. 2° N.--
,, ? aur\frons, Licht. Mex.
,, atiifrons, Sw. Mex. Table L.                                                                                                        Mex. Licht.
,, elegant, Sw. Mex. marit.                                                                                          ,, sulcirostris, S w. Mex. Table L.
                                                                                                                     Leptottoma longicauda, Sw. Mex. (Sauro-
                                                                                                                                          thera cabjfornica, Less. ?)

Sub-lyp. fam. Psittacid*.                                                                                                 Aber.fam. Certhiad^.

PsUtacus melan--oceMpehxa.lus,  enl. 527. 2° N.                                                                      Troglodytes hyemalis, A. 365. 40° N.--

,, kucorbyncbus, Sw. Mex.                                                                                                                   46° N. (Syfc. troglodytes).
,,       autumnalis, Edw. 164. 2° N.
               --Mex, Licht.                                                                                             ,, \ furvus--, AbT. r8S3.{. dSoumrien».tiBcao,na.i'd5o°nN). .
PMlyacc,,troolcoeprhcuussslrenmmueuixslii,lcaaLrniisuc,sh, tVG. amMielelxl...,                                                     americanus, A. 179. 32° N.--
                                                                                Licht.                                                   46° N.

                                                                                4. Mex.                                   ,, spilurus, Vig. 4. Calif. ? or
                                                                                                                                             Mex. ?
         Table L. Sw. SanBlas.Via.
                                                                                                                                 palustris, A. 100. 25° N.--
v,, ol.  pachyrhynchus,         Sw. Mex.
                                                                                                                                             55° N. (Tbryotborvs).
         v. 1836.
178 SIXTH REPORT -- 1836.

Troglodytes fBewickii, A. 18. Louis.                            Sitta   caroUnensis, A.     152.  Mex.          Sw.
                     ludovicianus, A. 78. 30° N.                                  --46° N.
                                                                    ,,  canadensis, A. 105.    N38. °--N4.0--"  52"  N.
                 I 42° N. (carolmianus).                            ,,                                          N.
                     brevirostris, .rf. 1 75. 26° N.               ,,   pusMa,    A. 125. 24°  Calif. Monterey.
                                                                        pygmsca,    Vig. 4,2.
                      _44° N.
       ,,        murarau, Licht. Mex.                                             36° N.
        ,,       mexicanus, Licht. Mex.
        ,,       latifasciatus, Licht. Mex.                     Xiphorynchus leucoyaster, Sw. Mex.
Certhia     familiaris*. A. 392. 30° N.--                       Dendro,,colaptesftapmacgilmintoetru,s,SwW. aMqexl.. Mex.
                                                                                  Licht.
            50° N.

   We may remark of the scansorial birds in general that they
are very numerous on the American continent, and particularly
in the intertropical and southern regions, where they find abun
dant food in the ancient and interminable forests which they
inhabit. The North American fauna contains examples of all
the five families, the typical group being, however, most plen
tifully and generally distributed in the middle districts. Three
species only of the whole tribe are common to the European
and American faunae, viz. picus tridactylus*, which is the most
northern scansorial bird, and canns [malacolophus) Sw., which is
introduced into our list on the authority of Temminck, who says
that it inhabits the north of Europe, Asia, and America : both
these belong to the typical family. The third species is certhia
famUiaris, a type of one of the aberrant families. Doubts
existed as to the difference between troglodytes europeeus and
hyemalis, but they have been abandoned by the latest writers.
The European fauna contains no example of the psittacidce or
ramphastidce, and in America the psittacara carolinensis alone
passes the parallel of the south of Europe : a species of parrot
reaches the thirty-second degree of latitude in the north of
Africa. The coccyzus americanus has been recently added to
 the list of European birds, four individuals having been killed in
 Great Britain, consequently it attains a higher latitude there by
 five or six degrees than it does on the other side of the Atlantic.
Temminck objecting to the geographical designations of ameri-
 ca7ius, carolinensis and dominicus, in which this species rejoices,
has named it cinerosus, being a translation of Buffon's epithet
 cendrillard.

                    Aber. tribe, Tenuirostres.

                    Typ.fam. Trochilid*.
            JC mins, AB.n.6. Real del Monte,
Trochilua   J Sw. 61°N. {coUaris, Lath.)                        Trochilus  Rieolii, Less. 4. Mex.
                                                                           melanotvs, Sw. Mex.
        ,,  |\j)mlamtyitcaiiTmC.iu, a,LeSsws..  33, 54.  Mex.              fiilgeiu, Sw. Mex.
        ,,                                      Mex.                       latiro»tri», Sw. Mex.
       ,,   Anna, Less. 74. Cal. 30°                     N. --             iifurcalw, Sw. Mex.
            57° N.                                                         minimus, Sw. Mex.

   · Mr. Swainson says the European and American three-toed woodpeckers
are distinct species.
                  ON NORTH AMKRICAN ZOOLOGY.                                                  179

Trochilus tricolor, Sw. Mar.                        Cynanthus arsinoe, Less. sup. 28. Mex.
      ,, beryllinus, Licht. Mex.                    Campylopterus Clementice, Less.
      ,, verticalis, Licht. Mex.                    Lampornis mango, A. 184. 25°         30.  --Me2x5°.
      ,, cuculiger, Licht. Mex.                                                           S.
      ,, curvtpennit, Licht. Mex.
      ,, hemileucurus, Licht. Mex.                      N. Braz. Mex. Flor.
      ,, coruscus, Licht. Mex.                          gramineus, Less. col. 12. Mex.
                                                        pmcuaenelalcignteaongtaaa,/s)t,eLre,VsiseV. iiltelr..il85l..3.M75Me.xeM.x.ex.
Cynanthus coluliria, A. 47. W. Ind. 57° N.              nolosericeus, Edw. W. Ind.
       ,, lucifer, Less. 5. Mex. Sw.                    Mex. 4° N.-- 20° N.
       ,, tricolor. Less. 14. Mex.                      gutturalis, enl. 671. 4° N. .Mer.
       ,, Dupontii, Less. sup. 1. Mex.
       ,, thalassinus, Less. 55, 5G, 57.
                        sup. 3. Mex.

The tenuirostral tribe, containing the five families of trochi-

lidte, cinnyridce, me lip hagidee, paradisidce, and promeropidce,
is represented in Europe only by the hoopoe, one of the prome
ropidce, while many trochilidce belong to the North American
fauna, of which, however, but three range northwards to Euro
pean parallels. The alpine structure of Mexico, by producing
u succession of various climates within a short space, adapts it
admirably to the habitation of the trochilidee which seek their

food in the throats of flowers. Mr. Swainson observes, that the
vast proportion of suctorial birds inhabiting Australia and
the neighbouring groups of islands, is one of the characteristics
of that zoological province, the honey-sucking                   birds
nearly one-fourth of the New Holland perchers,                  -- for               forming
                                                                                    that cha

racter belongs not only to the meliphagidce, but also to the
little green lories (trichoglossi) of the parrot family. The para-
disidce are natives of New Guinea which is a portion of the Au
stralian province. The greater prevalence of this form in South
America and Australia affords another instance of analogy
between their faunae, in addition to those noticed in our remarks
on the mammalia. The cinnyridce and promeropidce inhabit
the wanner regions of the old world.

                        Aber. tribe, Fissirostres.

     Aber. Fam. Halcyonid.*.                        Hirundo thalassina, Sw. Mex.
                                                         ,, coronata, Licht.    Mex.
Alcedo alcyon, A. 77. W. Ind.-- 6S° N.              Chsetura pelasgia, A. 158.     ?-- 25°    N.--

      Typ. Fam. Hiruxdinid.e.                           50° N.

Hirundo purpurea, A. 22. Braz. Sw. 9° S.            Sub. typ. fam. Capbimulgid.*.
               N.
,,      --67°  A. 173.  Mex.  Licht. --             Caprimulgus vociferus, A. 82. ?--25° N.
    rustica*,                                              _48° N.

    68° N. (rufa, americana).                           carolinensis,           A.  52.  Mex. --
,,  riparia*,  A. 389. 25° S.-- 68° N.              ,,
,,  bicolor,   A. 98. Mex. Licht. --                       37° N.
                                                        virginianus, A. 147.             ?--25°
         60°  N.  (viridis).                        ,,
    fulva,    A.  68. W.            Vieill.             N.-- 68° N. 'Chordeiles,
,,                            Ind.

,,      Mex.Sw-- 67°N.        (Lhmatifhro.,ns??--)         Sw.)     Lath.           4°  N.--  Mex.
    aoonalaschkensis,                                   albicoUis,
                                                        Licht. ,
    60° N.

                                    N2
ISO SIXTH REPOKT -- 1836.

     Aber.fam. Thogonidj!.                     Trogon mexieanut, Sw. TemUcalt.
                                               ,, resplendens, Zool. pr. 27'. Hex.
Trogon viridis, enl. 195. 2° N.-- ilex.        ,, elegant, Zool. pr. ilex.
             Licht.                            ,, ambiguut, Zool. pr. ilex. Nath.pr.
                                                   ,, Morganii, Sw. .Ww.
   ,, glocitans, Licht. ilex.                  Prionites mexieanut, Sw. 3/e.r.                                          Taife L.
    ,, pavoninus, col. 372. ilex.

The meropidce, one of the aberrant families of the fissirostral
tribe, have no members in America, though two species enter
Europe, the rest of the group being confined to the warmer re
gions of the old continent. The trogonidce again, another aber
rant family peculiar to America, though pretty numerous in
Mexico, send no species so far north as to reach the United
States.* The third aberrant family, the halcyonidce, contains
one European species and one North American one. The two
normal families are spread over the whole world, and are re
presented in Europe and North America by nearly an equal
number of species, though few are really common to the two
countries. The chimney or barn swallow of America is consi
dered by Audubon as the same with that of Europe ; though pre
vious authors, relying upon some differences in the colour of the
it it
    is

                  is
                                   a

                                                     :;

                                  it,

                                                    a
                                                    a

                                                                     is it

                                                                                                                          a
plumage, had named as distinct species, rufa or americana.
The sand-martin (riparia) has been described as the same in both
continents without much question, but also perhaps without
correct comparison of sufficient number of specimens from
both continents. The interesting species named fulva requires
further investigation by Vieillot, who gave that appellation,
said to have forked tail, which form also attributed to
in the Fauna boreali- americana, where Say's appellation of
                               Audubon and the Prince                 of
lunifrons adopted           specimen, describe the tail                   sMquusairgen. anoI,t
who inspected Say's                                                   as
remains to be ascertained whether these authors all speak of
the same species or not.

                            Aber. Ord. RASORES.

Aber.fam. Cracid^e.                            Peristera jamaicemu,       Tem. 10. Mete.

Crax hoazin,  Albin 32.     iNle. x--.                        Licht.
Ourax paint,                                        ,, punilla, Licht. Mex.
               enl. 78. 2°              ilex.  Geophilus cyanocephalus, A. 172. W. Ind.
Penelope garrula, Wagler, Mex. Licht.
                                                                  --25° N. Florida.                                     W. Ind.--
      Aber. /am. Columbid.*.                   Chamocpelia passerina, A. 182.

Columba fasciata, Bon. 3. R. Platte.                      32° N. Cape Hatterat.                                         S. --
      ,, leucocephala, A. 177. W. Ind.                  sjuamo&a, Tem. 59. 25°
                    Mex. Florida*.-- 2b° N.
      ,, monilis, Vig. 10. Cat. 36' N.

Ectopistes migratoria*, A. 62. 25° N.--
                      62° N. Greenl aecid.

        ,, carolinensis, A. 17. Mex.

                 Licht.-- 42° N. L. Super.
Peristera montana, A. 167. 2°N.-- 25°N.

              zenaida, A. 162. Cuba.-- 25° N.
·                                              ,,       Mex. Licht.
                              8,

                                a \/
                                                                                                                    1.
                                                    Phasianid.f or Pavonid^.
                                               Meleagris gallopavo. A. Mex. --J4°N.

                                               Tetrao      Tetraonid.*.
                                                    ,,  umbellus, A. 41.32° N.--56° N.

                                                        cupido, A. 186. 36° N.-- 46° N.

Mr. Swainson has recently indicated prionites bahamentis.
         ON NORTH AMERICAN ZOOLOGY.                                                                                                                  181

Tetrao  f canadensis, A. 176. 44' N. --      JTetrao f urophasianus, A. 366. 42° N. --
    ,,                                                        48° N. Prairiesofthe Cotumb.
         I 68° N. Moist Woods.                   ,, 1 phasianellus, A. 367. 36° N.--
                                                      [ 61° N.
        J Franklinii, F.B.A. 61. 50° N.--    Ortyx  virgininna, A. 76.  Mex. --48° N.
               58° N. Rocky Mount.
           obscurus, A. 361. 40° N.-- 63"    ,, cal--iibr1n4ic°aN, . Shaw. Mis. 345. 36°N.

               N.                            ,, Douglasu, Vig. 9. Cat. 36° N.--
         'mutus* Leach. 67°N.-- 70°N.                   42° N.
                                             ,, picta, Doug. 38" N.-- 45° N.
           rupestris* A. 373. 55° N.--       ,, spilogaster, ZooLpr. 15. Mex. Cum.
               75° N. Barren Grounds.        ,, cristata, enl. 126./. 2° N.-- itfar.

           leucurus, F.B.A. 63. 54° N.--

               64° N. Rocky Mount.
           saliceti*, Ed. 72. 45°N.-- 70°N.

The families of rasores are capable of being distributed pretty
correctly into geographical groups. Thus the cracidce belong
to South America, a few species extending northwards to Mex
ico : one genus (megapoditis) inhabiting New Guinea, forms
another link of connection between the Australian and South

American faunae. The struthionidce belong mostly to the
warmer parts of the old continent, one form (the New Holland
                  Australia, and another            (rhea) South America.
emeu) inhabiting   also have their head             quarters in the more
The phasianidce
southern parts of the old world, one genus only (meleagris),
composed of two species, being American. The columbida, on
the other hand, are spread generally over the world, though the
family contains several well-marked minor geographical groups.
The tetraon'nlce are likewise widely diffused, but chiefly in the
colder or temperate regions; and it is to           tbheislofnagm, --ilyththeayt  the only
rasorial birds common to both continents                                          are ptar
migans, inhabiting the most northern districts, [tetrao mutus,ru-
                           On comparing this division of                the faunas of
pestris  and saliceti) .  Europe with each other we find                that the for
         America and
North
mer wants the partridges so common in the temperate parts of the
latter, the true pheasants, the genus otis, and                         the pterocles
and hemipodii which have spread to the south of                         Europe from

Africa and Asia ; on the other hand it possesses several forms
of columbidcc, not known in Europe ; the magnificent turkey,
which for culinary purposes ranks as the chief not only of the
gallinacei but of' the whole feathered race ; several singular
forms of tetrao; and the beautiful californian quails (orti/x) ; be
sides the Mexican cracidee, which, as they do not go so far north
as the southern extremity of Europe, do not fairly come into the
frcaeonamnc<phaerhisiiogsnh.ceorntfhiInanendsthhoetorts,ooutnhteheegrsnriomupiplaarrtoistfyocfootlfuhtmehhiUscnepi,toewrdthioiScnthaotefdsot,heetso  two
                                                                                                                                                     not

                                                                                                                                                     the

arctic lagopi, and to another group of tetraoties, which includes
canadensis, but is not generically distinct from the typical

grouse.
182 SIXTH BEPORT -- 1836.

                               Aber. Ord. GRALLATORES.
    fAbet, am. Tantalid.*.
                                                               Totanus melanoleucus, A. 308. W. Ind.--
                                                                             60° N. (vociferus, Wils.)
Tantalus loculator, A. 216. 25° S.-- 38° N.                              macularius*, Wils.        59. Mex.
          Ord.                                                 ,,                                  ?--55° N.
Ibis rubra, A. 385. 25° S.-- 36° N.                                         Licht. --  A57°  N.
       alba, A. 222. Mex. 25° S.--40° N.                       ,,                            303.
,,     falcinella* A. 386. Mex -- 46° N.                       ,,        Bartramius*
,,                                                                           chloropygius, Wils. 58. Mex.
Caneroma cSo.--chlMeaerxia. ,    enl. 38      &   369.    30°  ,,        f     Licht. Cuba--68° N.
                                                        U. S.  ,,
A ramus scolopaceus,           Licht.        2°  N. --                   {   ochropus*. F.B.A. ?-- 58° N.
                               A. 381.                                       calidris*, F.B.A. ?-- 58° N.
                                                                          L

          Bon.                                                 ,, fuscus*, enl. 875. N. ^ulTemh.
                                                               \,, f sem--ip5a6l°mNat.us*, A. 274. 23° N.
    Sub-typ. /am. ARDEiDiE.                                    ,, [ candidus, Edw. 139. ?-- 58° N.
Cirus americana, A. 226. Mex.-- 68° N.
Ardea herodias, A. 211. 25° N.-- 50° N.                        Recurvirostra americana, A. 318. Tropics

     ,, ludoriciana, A. 21 7. 24° N.-- 36°                                        --63° N.
               N. Charlestoum.                                      ,, occidentalis, Vig. 12. Cal 38° N.
,, occiden talis, A. 281. Flor. keys.                          Umosa fedoa, A. 238. 21° N.-- 68° N.
                                                               i,, I" hudsonica, A. 258. 38° N.-- 68° N.
    '      26° N.                 A. 242. 24° N.--
       candidissima,                                           ,, melanura*, enl. 874. U.S. Box.
                                                                         \_ an preeed. ?
          42° N. Massachusetts.                                ,,         Candida, Edw.      139.  enl 873. H.

     rufescens, A. 256. Flor. keys.                                          Bay.
         26° N. (Pealii.)                                      Scolopax minor, A. 268. 26° N.-- 52° N.
                                                               ,, Wilsonu* A. 243. 28° N.-- 55° N.
      egretta* A. 378. W. Ind. Mex.                            ,, leucura, F.B.A. Huds. B. 57° N.
         2°N.-- 43° N. (alba).                                 Phal,,aropugsrisfeuali*c,aAriu. s3*3, 5.A.502°55N. .--?--707°5°NN. .

    'coerulea, A. 307. Mex. W.Ind.
          2° N.-- 44° N.
       virescens, A.
         --44° N.                 333.  Mex.     W. Ind.             ,,  ghylapcciarbuosr,eLusa*t,h.AB. e2h1r5. .St?.--m75\°°  N.
                                                               Lobipes                                                         N.
       lentiginosa, A. 337. 38° N.--                           ,, Wilsonii, A. 254. Mex. S w. S. Am.
           58° N. (minor).
,,     exilis* A. 210. W. Ind.                   Col. Vig.                   --55° N. (fimbriatus, Tkm.)
                                                               Tringa islandica* A. 315. ?-- 75° N.
         45° N.                                                ,, maritima*, A. 284. 40° N.-- 74° N.
,,  rnycticorax*,A.236.Jfer.                     -- 46°  N.              Temminckii*, col. 41, 1. Cal
                                                               ,,           Vig. U. S. Bon.
I,, 1 violacea, A. 336. Mex. W. Ind.--
          2° N.-- 44° N.                                       ,, minuta*,NAUM,21, 30. V. SBon.
Platalea ayaia, A. 321. Mex. Licht. 25°                        ,, pusilla, A. 320. Mex. Licht.

                 S.-- 40° N.                                   ,,           Nootka.--6S" N.        Ind.  --  U.S.

Hiematopus54p°alSlia. tKusin, gA..--22532. °MNe.x. Licht.                maculosa, Vieill. TV.
    ,, ostralegus*, Wils. 64, 2. Cal.                          ,, frufescens* A.265.30°N.-- 70°N.
               Vio.-- 50° N.                                   ,,        subarcuata*, A. 263. ?--39° N.
                                                                   1        & 41° N. -- ? (qfi-icana, Lath.)
                                                                    I
                                                               ,, pygmaea* Naum. 10, 22. U.S.
    Typ.fam. Scolopacid^;.                                                   Bon. (platyrhinca.)

Numenius  loCnagl.irVositcri--s,  A231    .  Me  j-.Licht.               "pectoralis*, A. 294. W. Ind. 19°
                                  42° N.
,, borealis, A. 208. Cal. Vig. 25° S.                                        N.-- ?
                                                                         Schinzii* A. 278. 25° N.-- 55° N.
          --70° N. Labrad. Coperm. r.                                    alpina* Wils. 56, 2. 57, 3. ?--

,,     hudsonicus, A. 237. ?-- 60° N.                                         74° N. (cinclus, variabilis.)
,,     rufiventris, Vig. Cal. 36° N.                                     "himantopus, A. 314. .'--60° N.

Totanus glottis* A. 269. W. Ind. Flor.                             '.    semipalmata*    A. 350.   ?-- 60° N.
                                                                                          Mex.
           keys.--2h° N.                                       ,,        Deppii, Licht.
                                                               Calidris arenaria*, Wils. 59, 4. 63, 3.
,, ftavipes, A. 288. Mex. Licht.                                             30° N.-- 60° N.
          Cuba.-- 68° N.
                          ON NORTH AMERICAN ZOOLOGY.                                             183

         Aber./am. Rallid.u.                     AStrepsilas mclanocephalus, Vig. Calif. ?
Parrajacana, enl. 322. 25° S.--Mex.              Charadrius pluvialis*,      300. 23° N.--

Rallus virginianus, A. 205. 24° N.-- 50° N.          75° N. Behr. St.

     ,, crepitans, A. 204. 24° X.-- 41° N.       A,, vociferus, A. 225. W. Ind.-- 56° N.
     ,, elegans, A. 203. 24° N.-- 40° N.
Crex noveboracensis, A. 329. ?-- 57° N.          ,, WilsoniuB, 209. 24° N.-- 44° N.
                                                 ,, melodus, A. 220. Cal. 24° N.--
,, carolinus, A. 233. Mex. 25° S.--                       53° N. (hiaticula, Wils.)
                                                 ,, semipalmatus, A. 330. Cal. 24° N.
             62° N.                                  70° N.
Gallinula  chloropus*,    A. 244.  Mix. Cal. --
                                                 Vanellus melanogaster*, A. 334. 26° N.
              40° N. (galeata, Bon.)             Him,,,,antopmCuaesy--leann7nei0ogn°prsituce,Nor.lwliesi*(n,h,l.eAel8v.ne3l.3t6i28.c87uM8.s.)e?.x2--.5°?14VS°.i--gN..
     ,,   martiniea, A. 305. 18° N.-- 35° N.                  Mex. Licht. Brazil, Egypt,
Fulica   americana, A. 239. Mex. Licht.

              Cal Vio.-- 56° N. (atra).

    Aber.fam. CharadriaD/E.                          Tem.
Strepsilas interpres* A. 304. 24° N.--
               75° N.

   The principal forms of the grallatorial order are the same
in the northern divisions of the two continents ; but there are
five minor genera, viz., ciconia, glareola, porphyrio, and cur-
sorius in Europe, which do not occur in North America j and
three in the latter country, namely, aramus, tantalus, and
parra, which do not belong to the fauna of Europe. The
forms and very many of the species of the typical family (the

scolopacidcs) are absolutely the same in both countries, and on

referring to the table in page 167, it will be seen how nearly
the number of species of most of the families correspond on
both sides of the Atlantic ; the numbers would agree still more
exactly in the principal group but for recent refinements in the
discrimination of species, by which hirds, so closely resemhling
the common snipe as not to be distinguishable by an ordinary
observer, are described as distinct on account of some differ
ences in the tail-feathers. The American coot differs very
slightly from the European one, and the constancy of these
differences still requires to be established ; the latter occurs in
India without change of form. The Rev. Mr. Bachman and
Mr. Audubon have clearly established the brown crane, grus
canadensis, to be the young of the great hooping-crane, grus
americana,

                          Aher. Ord. NATATORES.

           Anatidjs.                             Anas obscura, A. 302. 25° N.-- 45° N.
                                                 ,, discors, A. 313. Mex. Licht. Cal.
Phojnicopterus ruber*, Wils. 66, --4 . ? 40°               --58° N.
                                                                             Cal. Vio.  24° N.
               N. Bon.                           ,,  cre--cca70*°  A.  228.
Anas clypeata*, A. 327. Mex. Sw. Licht.                            N.

              Cal. Vio.-- 70° N.                 ,, glocitans*, A. 338.
                                                     amVeirgic.a--na6,8°AN. .34(M5.areCeuab)a..   Cal.
,, strepera*A.348.3fcr.S-nr.68°N.                ,,                                              Vig.
,, acuVtiag*,.--A7.0°22N7.. Mex. Sw. Cal.        ,,  sponsa, A. 206. Mex. Cal.
                                                                19° S.--54° N.
,,         uropbasianns,  Vio.     14. Cal.}     Somateria mollissima*, A. 246.  39° N. --
,,         boschas* k.
           -- 68° N.      221.     Mex. Licht.       81° N. Greenl. Spitzb.
1S4 SIXTH REPORT -- 1836.

Somateria spectabilis*, A. 276. 43° N --              Una       gryltmlreoa*UrmeA*o..raA2t1.a9,2. 1L83.a7°t4h1N.°.--NN..7--J5V°.61N°c.oNas.t.

          81° N. Greenl Spitzb.                             ,,
                                                            ,,
Oidemia perspicillata*, A. 317. Nootka.                           Bon.
          24* N.-- 72° N.
,, rosea* Wils. 72. f. 3. 36° N.--                    Merg,,,,ulusablrleceiv*ri,rrboAos.ctre3isp3,h9a.Vluig3s.9, °KVoNliz.g--e.ln7tK5eo°StzNoeu.bnude.
          72° N.
          nigra* Wils.       72. 2. 36° N. ? N.
     ,,                      349. U. S.-- 62° N.                  Sound.                            S, Bon.
          americana, A.      301. Cal. 38° N.--                                                     70° N.
      ,,  valisueria, A.                              Fratercula  glaciaUs,            A. 293. U.
Fuligula                                                          Kotzebue             Sound. Vig.
          68° N.
,, fcrina* A. 322. Cal. 38° N.--                                cirrhata, A. 249. 40° S.-- 70° N.
                                                      ,,           Kotzebue Sound. Vig.

          68° N.         Wils. 69.            N.--              arctica*. A. 213. 32° N.-- ? N.
                          Cal. Vig.                             cristatella, col. 200. 50° N.-- 70°
,,        mania*                     5.  38°                ,,
              68° N.                                  Phaleris
                                                                  N. Aleut, isles? Via.
,,        labradora, A. 332. 40° N.-- 58° N.          ,, psittacula. Pall. sp. v. 2. Sea of
,,        rufitorques, A. 234. 26° N.-- 68°                       Kamtsch.
          N. (fuligula, Wils.)
      ,, rubida, A. 343. 26°         N.-- 58° N.      Alca torda* A. 214. 40° N.-- 57° N.
Clungula vulgaris*, A. 342.          26° N.-- 68°       ,, impennis*, A. 341. ?-- 75°               N.
                                                      Cerrorbincha occidentalis, Bon.               Behr.  St.
          N. (cUmgxUa, Auct.)
          Barrovii, F.B.A. A. 70. ?-- 5 7° N.                     Via.
,,                           325. Afar. Cal. Vio.
,,        alb--eo6la8,°  A.
                         N.  {bucephala).  Via  --                Pelecanid*.
,,                           A. 297. Cal.
          histrionica*,                               Onocrotalus amcricanus, A. 311. Mex.

                 74° N.                               Pelecanus   Via--61° N.          -- Afar.     4L0i°chNt. .--
Hareldaglaciahs* A. 312. 36° N.-- 75° N.
Mergus cucullatus*, A. 232. 24° N.-- 68°                          thajus, S. 40°.

              N.                              N. --   Phalacrocorax carbo*, A. 266.
          merganser*,
,,                           A.    331.  38°                        53° N.
                                                                dilophus, A. 257. 33° N.-- 55° M.
          68° N.                                                floridanus, A. 252. 24° N.-- 35° N.
          serrator* A. 382. 38° N.-- 68° N.
,,        albellus* A. 347. 38° Is.-- ? N.                      graculus*, enl. 974. 40° N. Bon.
,,                                                              cristatus*, col. 322. 40° N. Bon.
Cygnus buccinator, A. 377. 38°N-- 68°N.
            Bewickii*, A. 387. Cal.-- 75° N.                    pvgmacus*, Pall. Yoy. 1. U. S.
     ,,  canadensis, A. 201. 26° N.-- 70° N.                      'Bon.
Anser                                                           brasilianus, Spix. 106.             25° S.--
,, Hutchinsii, A. 277. 45° N.-- 69°                                Mex. Licht.                      2° N. --
          N. Melville peninsula.                      ,,

,,        bernicla*, A. 380. 26° N.-- 73° N.          Sula fusca, A. 251. Mex. Via.
,,        leucopsis* A. 296. ?-- ? U.S.                           35° N. Flor. S. Carol.
                                                                                       326. 40° N. Bon.
          Bon.                                              ,, bassana* A.             A. 271. Mex. Via.
          segetum*, enl. 985. V. S. Bon.              Tachypetes aquilus,
,,        hyperborea*, A. 376. 26° N.--                           23° S.-- 10° N. Bon.
,,                                                    Phaeton eethereus, A. 262. 30° S. Less.
          73° N.
                                                                  --25° N. Aud.
          C0LYMBID.E.                                                           Wils. 74. 1 & 2.
                                                      Plotus    auhi--nga36, °                       25°   S.
                                                                                 N. {melanogaster).
Podiceps carolinensis, A. 248. 26° N. --
          68° N.
          cornutus*, A. 259. 26° N.-- 68° N.                            Larida.
,,        cristatus*, A. 292. Mex.-- 68° N.
,,        nibricolUs* A. 298. 41° N.-- 68°            Sterna himndo* A. 309. 38° N.-- 57° N.
,,
               N.                                               arc(tiWcail*s,onAii.,   Bon.)    N.-- 75°  N.
         surinamensis,             893.  2° N. --40°  ,,
                                                                                       250. 38°
                                                      ,, cantiaca* A. 2 79. 24° N.-- 33° N.
Podoa                        enl.

          N. Bon.                                     ,, DougalU*, A. 240. .'--26° N.
Colvmbus glacialis* A.306.26°N.-- 70°N.
,, scptentrionahs* A. 202. 36° N.                     ,, cavana, A. 273. 23° N.-- 54° N.
                                                      ,, ful'iginosa, A. 235. 49° S.--40° N.
          --74° N.                                              nigra* A. 280. Mex.-- 69° N.
,, arcticus*, A. 346. ?-- 70° N.                      ,,        aranea*, A. 383. 36° N.-- 44° N.
                                                      ,,
                                                                minuta*, A. 319. ?-- 44° N.
          AlXADyB.                                    ,,        stolida, A. 275. 25° S.-- 24° N.
                                                      ,,
Uria BrnniiichU*, A. 215. 42°N.-- 75°N.                         galericulata, Mex. Licht.
                                                      ,,
                 ON NORTH AMERICAN ZOOLOGY.                    185

Larus glaucus* A. 379. ? N.-- 75° N.                         Waiqatz St. Spitzb., Regt. Inlet.
,, argentatus* A.291.24°N.-- 75°N.                         ?-- 82° N.
,, leucopterus*,A.282.40°N.-- 75°N.
    marinus* A. 241.    28° N.-- 56°  --N.  Rhynchops nigra, A. 323. ?-- 46° N.
,,  wmorhvnchus, A.     212. 36° N.         Lestris parasiticus*, A. 267. 24° N.-- 75°
,,
    56° N.                                               N.

,,  canus* Auct. V. S. --64° N.             ,, pomarinus,A.253.43°N.--67°N.
,,  Belcheri, Vig. N. Pad/, coast.          ,, Richardsonii* A. 272. 42° N.--
,, eburneus* A.287.47°N.-- 75°N.
,, fuseus* Frisch. 218. U.S. Bon.                     75° N. (parasiticus, Auct.)
    Tem.                                    ,, cataractes*, Brit. Zoo/. 50, 6.

                                                      U. S. Bon.

,, tridactvlus* A. 224. 30° N.--            ,, Buffonii* enL 762. U. S. Bon.
                                            Diomcdea exulans, A. 388. 35° S.--U. S.
    74° N.                                               Wils. Cape of Good Hope.

,, Bonapartii, A. 324. ?-- 70° N.           ,,           fuliginosa, cot. 469. Cal. Aleut.
,, Franklinii, F.B.A. 71. ?-- 56° N.                        islands, Vig. 50° S.-- 50° N.
,, capistratus* Baff. Bay, Tem. 33°         Procellaria glacialis* A. 264. V. S.~ 60° N.
       N.-- 74° N.                              ,, puffinus* en*. 962. U. 5.-60° N.
,,  atricilla* A. 314.  ?--45°  N.               ,, obscura*, St. degli Ucclli, 538.
                                                            U.S. Bon.
,, ridibundus*,NAUM.32,44. Green/.
           teas. Tem.                       Thalassidroma Wilsonii* A. 270. 23° N.
                                                           --55° N. Bon. (pelagica, W.)
,, minutus*, Falk. Voy. 3, 24. U.S.
    Bon. 65° N.                                  ,, Leachii* A. 260. 40° N.-- 55° N.

,,  Sabinii*, A. 285. Cal. Behr. St.                     Bon.
       Vig. Spilzb. 36° N.-- 80° N.
,, Rossii*, F.B.A. Newfoundland,            ,, pelagica*, A. 340. V. S.
                                            ,, Bullockii*, Neivfoundland. Aud.

The natatores, like the cetacea which they represent, in
habit the waters, the majority seldom coming ashore except
for the purpose of nidification ; and they are mostly common
to the two continents, especially the marine ones. The generic
groups are almost entirely the same in the same parallels of
latitude ; and even where the species are peculiar, there is a
surprising uniformity in the numbers of each group, as may be
observed on consulting the table in page 167. The common white
pelican of America is considered as distinct from the onocro-
tulus of the old world by Mr. Audubon, and some occasional
differences in the bill are pointed out in the Fauna horeali-
americana ; hut in most other respects the American and Eu
ropean pelicans have a very close resemblance. The breeding
plumage of many of the northern gulls is still very imperfectly
known, and the exact number of species and their distribution
will remain uncertain until some ornithologist, who has the re
quisite opportunities of observation, accomplishes a revision of
the genus. The characters of the black-headed gulls especially

require elucidation.
In concluding our remarks on North American ornithology,
made chiefly with a view of pointing out its peculiarities, by
             it  with that of
contrasting  of   Musignano's       Eu"roSppeec, chwioe  may refer the reader to
the Prince
                                                          comparative)" *, &c,

   · Specchio comparativo delle Ornitolngie di Roma e di Fitedrljia, di C. L.
Bonaparte, &c, estratto dal No. 33, del nuovo giornale de' lettcrati. Pisa,

1827.
186 SIXTH REPORT-- 1836.

for an excellent comparison of the birds inhabiting the middle
parallels of the two zoological provinces.
   The following table, which exhibits to an approximate                   fraction
the proportion that each group of birds bears to the
                                                                          whole of
the known North American species, will require correction as
our knowledge of the ornithology of Mexico and the northern
shores of the Pacific improves.

Groups.                  No. of Prop,  Groups.                            No. of Prop,
                           sp. fr.                                          sp. fr.

Rapaces                    54   TT     Fissirostres     ........          *23
   Vulturidse                                                                  1
   Falcon idae               5  J&i        Halcyonidae
    Strigidae              35             Hirundinidae                        9
                            14  TT                                            4
Insessores               400           Caprimulgidae . .
                         150       i                                          9
    Laniadae               45          Trogonidae
                           21   7Ai7                                       33 2T
Ampelidae                                  Columbidae   ................      3 2T2
                           73   TT         Phasianidae
Muscicapidae. . . .          9  S1T       Tetraonidae                       12

                             2    1    Grallatores                             1
                         134      1
Conirostres      ....           11     Tantalidae                         t17 TT
   Fringillidae            90
                           20   tV     ....Ardeidae                        87 h
Corvidae                   24     1                                           6
                           62          Scolopacidae
                           21                                               16
Sturnidse                              ....Rallidae
                           12                                              45 tV
                                       Charadriadae
                             2                                            i9 tV
Picidae                      8
                           19                                               11
    Ramphastidae. . . .    31          Anatidae         ....              122
    Cuculidae                          Colymbidae       ....
                                                                           41
    Certhiadae                         Pelecanidae
Tenuirostres.Trochil.                  Laridae                                8
                                                                            15
                                                                            14

                                                                           44 tV

   The whole zoological region of North America being acces
sible, without much difficulty, to naturalists and collectors, that
highly interesting subject, the migration of birds, can be studied
no where with greater advantage. The American ornithological
works do, indeed, abound with scattered facts respecting the
periodical flights of some species : and the introduction to the
second volume of the Fauna boreali-umericatia contains a few

J.general remarks on this matter ; but a paper by the Rev.

Bachman, published in Silliman's Journal for April, 183G, is
the only one written expressly on the migration of North Ame
rican birds which has come to my knowledge. In this treatise
the movements of the feathered tribes in America are noticed
ON NORTH AMERICAN ZOOLOGY.       187

in a very agreeable and popular style ; but there is a want ofit,
precise numerical data, which we trust Mr. Audubon's forth
coming volume will amply supply ; in the mean time the follow
ing pages, containing the chief statements made in the works
referred to, will give some idea of the question as it now stands.

  The primary objectof the migration of birds is generally allowed
to be the obtaining a due supply of proper food in the various
seasons of the year ; and it is to be observed that in many
cases the parents at the epoch of reproduction, and their callow
young, require a very different kind of nourishment from that

which the species subsists upon at other times ; thus many, if

not most of the hard-billed granivorous birds, feed their un
fledged brood on soft insects and grubs.

    Three lines of route, marked out by the physical features of
the land, are pursued by the bands of migrating birds in their
course through North America ; some species retiring on the
approach of winter through the eastern states and the peninsula
of Florida to the West Indies ; others passing down the great
valley of the Mississippi to the Texas and eastern Mexico ; and
others again keeping to the westward of the Rocky Mountains,
and entering the tropical regions by the shores of the Pacific.
Some more widely-diffused species pursue all the three routes ;
while others, hitherto detected only in a single tract in the
southerly part of their journey, spread from one side of the con
tinent to the other as they approach their breeding quarters on
the confines of the arctic circle. Many birds, and more espe
cially the soft-billed waders, make their flight northwards in the
higher latitudes through a- different zone of country from that
 which they traverse on their return southwards, being influenced
 in this matter by the different conditions of the surface in
 spring and fall.

    The short duration of summer within the arctic circle, taken

 in connexion with the time necessary to complete the process
 of incubation, the growth of plumage, and, in the case of the
 anatidce, the moulting of the parent birds, serves to limit the
 northern range of the feathered tribes. The waders, which seldom
 make a nest, and the water-birds, which lay their eggs among
 their own down, and obtain their food on the sea or open lakes
 when the land is covered with snow, breed farthest north.
 The ptarmigans, which breed in very high latitudes, and moult
 during the season of re-production, migrate only for a short dis
 tance, and by easy flights ; and, their food moreover being the
 buds or tips of willows and dwarf birch, can be obtained amidst
 the snow. When we consider that at the northern extremity of
 the American continent, and on the islands beyond the sum
188 SIXTH REPORT -- 1836.

mer heat is already on the decline before the country is even
partially denuded of its wintry mantle, we should scarcely ex
pect to find any granivorous hirds feeding in such high lati
tudes ; but, in fact, by an admirable provision, springing froni
the peculiar severity of the climate, the snow-buntings and Lap -
land finches are furnished with food on their first arrival, when
the patches of cleared land are scarcely larger than what suffices
for the reception of their eggs. In the polar regions, the au
tumnal frosts set in so severely and suddenly that the pro
cess of vegetation is at once arrested, and the grass-culms, in
stead of whitening and withering as they do more to the south
ward, are preserved full of sap until the spring, the seeds re
maining firmly fixed in their glumes ; when the ground is pre
pared for their reception by the melting snow, the seeds fall,
and in a few days, under the influence of continuous light, a
brilliant, thougli short-lived, verdure gladdens the eye. These
grass-seeds, then, and the berries of several vaccineer, empetrece,

&c, which remain plump and juicy till the spring, yield food to

the birds on their first arrival ; and by the time that the young
are hatched, their wants are supplied by the further melting
of the snow liberating the larvae of many insects. The nata-
tores, which feed at sea, find open water early enough for their
purpose, and it is interesting to observe how well even the
freshwater anatidee (the majority of which breed in high lati
tudes) are provided for. Long before the ice of the small lakes
gives way it is flooded to the depth of several feet with melted
snow, that swarms with myriads of the larvae of gnats and
other insects on which the ducks feed. The more herbivorous
of the duck-tribe, viz., the geese, feed much on berries in their
migrations ; in the spring, before the sprouting of the tender
grass, which they like, we find their crops filled with the shi
ning, white, dry friiit of the eleagnns argentea; and in the au
tumn, when they cross the barren grounds, they banquet at
their halting- places on the juicy berries of the vaccinium
uliginosum, vitis idcea, or empetrum nigrum, which dye their
crops a deep purple colour. These and other capabilities
of the lands on the confines of the arctic circle account for
so many birds entering the arctic fauna. The numbers of
the falconidce and strigidce are of course proportioned to the
abundance of smaller birds and rodent animals on which they
feed.

   It may be considered as a general rule, that the number of
species of birds which enter the faunas of successive parallels of

latitude, diminishes gradually as we advance from the tropics

towards the poles ; but if we deduct the birds of passage and
               ON NORTH AMERICAN ZOOLOGY.  189

accidental visiters, and conclude with some authors that the
species properly belonging to adistrict are onlythosewhich breed
within its limits, we shall then find that in North America the
number of breeding birds increases as we go northwards, up to
the 62nd degree of latitude, where the woods begin to thin off.
Even on the verge of the barren grounds, near to the arctic
circle, as many species Dreed as in the neighbourhood of Phila
delphia, though in the latter locality some birds rear two or
more broods in a season, which is not the case in the north.
The Prince of Musignano states the number which hatch near
Philadelphia, near the 40th parallel, at 113, while fourteen de
grees farther north, at Carlton-house, on the Saskatchewan, the
number amounts to 149, and the difference would no doubt be
greater in favour of the hitter place were its ornithology more
thoroughly investigated ; but all the species included in our
estimate were detected in the course of a single spring by Mr.
Drummond and myself.
The amount of species which reside the whole year in any
one place has no direct relation to the numbers which breed
there, but is regulated chiefly by the winter temperatures, or, in
Humboldt's phrase, by the course of the isocheimal lines ; and
it seems evident that it is the diminution of supplies of food,
and not the mere sensation of cold, which occasions birds to

migrate from the high latitudes on the approach of winter.
After the spring movement, the feathered tribes are often ex
posed in the fur countries to much lower temperatures than had
occurred before their departure in autumn ; and the eagle and
other kinds which soar above the summits of the highest moun

tains, do not  appear  to be  inconvenienced by the rapid change
of climate to   which   they
                              thus subject themselves. All the
birds which feed on winged and terrestrial insects and worms,
such as the fly-catchers, vireos, and warblers, must migrate
from the northern regions, as well as most of the aquatic and
piscivorous tribes, the suctorial tenuirostres, and all the gralla-
tores, which thrust their bills into soft spungy soil in search of
food. The wood-peckers, though insectivorous, are more sta
tionary, because the larvae of the xylophagous beetles, on which
they subsist, lodging in trees, are as accessible in winter as in
summer ; but the colaptes auratus, which feeds mostly upon
ants, and the picus varius quit the snow-clad fur-countries in
winter, while they are permanent residents in the more southern

districts.
The only bird seen at Melville Island, in latitude 75° N.,
during winter was a white one, supposed to be the strix ?ti/ctea,
or it may have been a wandering falco islandicus, both these
190 SIXTH RETORT -- 1836.

birds preying on small quadrupeds. In the pools of water
which remain open        the year  in the arctic seas, the uriagrylle
and Brunnichii are  all  be found   at the coldest periods, the al-
                    to

cadev, consequently, are the most northerly winterers. Many
individuals, however, of the species just named go far south in
the winter season, and it has been observed that the old birds
remain nearer the breeding stations, while the young seek their
food further afield. This has been ascertained also of birds be
longing to other families, and more especially of the fa Icon icUs
and laridce, probably because their young are more readily
known by their peculiar plumage. In the extreme northern
parts of the continent the winter residents are the falco islandi-
cus and peregrinns, strix nyctea and funerea, and the raven, all
birds of prey, the linaria boreulis, which in the winter time
inhabits dwarf birch or willow thickets, and picks up a subsist
ence from the grass-spikes that overtop the snow, and the
ptarmigan, whose mode of feeding has already been alluded to.
The stria: lapponica or cinerea and virginiana, corvus canadensis,
tetrao canadensis, and picus tridactylus, inhabit the woods all
the year up to their northern termination. The tetrao cana
densis feeds on the evergreen leaves of the spruce-fir, and the
corvus canadensis, which is omnivorous, is one of the few birds
which lays up food for times of scarcity. As we proceed farther
southwards, to the banks of the Saskatchewan for instance, we
find large bands of willow ptarmigan {tetrao saliceti), which
have left their breeding-quarters in the north to winter there,
and the tetrao phasianellus and iimLellus, which are perma
nent residents, also one or two species of parvs, some addi
tional woodpeckers, two loxitE, the pyrrhula enucleator, the
corvus cristatus, and two additional owls. The emberiza ni
valis, which breeds between the 65th and 75th parallels, spends
most of the winter on the Saskatchewan, being seldom absent
more than two or three weeks in the severest weather, at which
time it retires to the confines of the United States.
In the neighbourhood of Philadelphia we find 44 permanently
resident birds, and 71 which come from the north to winter

there, making together 115 winterers in that locality; in sum
mer the 44 residents are joined by 74 species from the south,
which breed in Pennsylvania, making in the aggregate 118
breeders ; the rest of the birds enumerated in the Philadelphian
fauna by the Prince of Musignano consist of 48 species, which
merely pass through the district in spring and fall, on their
way from their southern winter-quarters to their breeding-
places in the north ; the amount of species, residents and visit
ers, in that district being 281. Dr. Emmons enumerates 241
                      ON NORTH AMERICAN ZOOLOGY.                                          191

species in his list of Massachusetts birds, 126 of which breed
within the limits of the state*. Out of 208 which were de

tected by us oil the Saskatchewan, 146 species breed there,
while the permanent residents and winter visiters do not exceed
25 or 30 species.
MuTshigenafnoollo'swin"g   table, which is compiled from the Prince of
                          Specchio comparative)", Dr. Emmons's list,
and the Fauna boreali-americana, indicates the number of

species that breed in three distant localities, the permanent
residents, and those which come from the south in summer to

breed being included in this number. A second column un
der each head comprises both the birds of passage and ac
cidental visiters, these two classes not being easily distin
guished in the present state of our knowledge of North Ameri

can ornithology. A few observations on the several families
follow the table.

           Philadel-      Massaehu- Saikatche.                         Philadel.  Massachu Saskatche
           phia.          setts.  wan.                                            setts.       wan.
           Lot. 40° N.1 ,Lat.42i° N. Lat. 54° N                        phia.
                                                                       I.at. 40° N Lat. 42j° N. Lat. 54° N.
Families.                                        Families.

Vukurida:                                            " Columbidac . .
Falconidae                        11 Pavonida;
Strigidae ..
                                   'J _ Tctraonida: . .
I.aniadae ..
Mendjdae..                         % 'Tantalida: ...                                            2
                                   6 Ardeidae...                                               11 11
Sylriadae ...                     11 Scolopacidae .
Ampelida;                          3 Rallidac ...                                                2
FringillidiE                                                                                     8
Corridas ..                       It . Charadriada; .
Sturnida: ..                                                                                   1 l 16
Picida:                             ii                                                           n1
Cuculidse ..                       H Anatidae
Certhiadae                         6 Colymbidse...                                             "a
Trochilidaa                                                                                      c 10
                                                   Alcadacf
Halcyonidae ...                     2 Pelecanida;
Hirundinidae . .                    1 Laridaj
Caprimulgidae.
                                    1
Normal groups 8.')
                                     1

                                    2

                          n 55    o:s 17 Aberrant groups 33 90                    35 58        53 -!.->

   Rapaces. -- The vulturidee, as we have already mentioned,
belong properly to the warm latitudes. Four of the five which

   · List of the birds of Massachusetts, prepared by order of the State Legisla
ture. By Ebenezer Emmons, M.D.

   t The inland situation of Cumberland and Carlton-houses on the Saskatche

wan excludes the alcadse from their fauna.
192 SIXTH REPORT -- 1836.

enter North America are accordingly much more abundant to
the south of the isthmus of Darien, and one only {cathartes
aura) breeds as far north on the coast as Pennsylvania ; in the
interior this species reaches the 54th degree of latitude, but it
is not known to breed there. Of the falconidae named in our
list, twelve range to South America, or have their head-quarters
there, and as many have been detected in Mexico, where they are
chiefly winter visiters, while the number that breed on the Sas
katchewan is twice as great as in Pennsylvania : only two (pere-
grinus and islandicus), and these are of the typical group, win
ter in the fur-countries. The strigidte aVe very partially migra
tory : otus and brachyotus, the only species which quit the
fur-countries in winter, are resident all the year in the United
States. Five of the North American owls belong also to the

South American fauna.
   Insessores, Dentirostres. -- With a very few exceptions, con
fined, or nearly so, to the typical genus lanius, all the North Ame
rican laniadas retire in winter to Mexico, the West Indies, or

South America, agreeing in this respect with the fly-catching syl-
viadce, which they so closely resemble in their manner of taking
their prey ; the tyrannulw especially are numerous in Mexico.
The merulid-ce wholly quit the fur-countries in winter, and all of
them extend their migrations to Mexico, the West Indies, or
South America, though detachments of some species, as merula
migratoria, orpheus polyglottus,ru/us, andfelivox remain with
in the United States all the year: South Carolina is stated by the
Rev. Mr. Bachman to be the most northerly winter range of
the last-mentioned bird. The breeding-range of birds of this

genus is very extensive ; eight species perforin that function
in all parts of the United States, most of them going as high as
the Saskatchewan. The merula migratoria is known to breed
from North Carolina to the Arctic Sea; cinclus americanus
and orpheus ncevius breed in the higher latitudes only. Mr.
Swainson has remarked of the American sylviadee that they
have their head-quarters in Mexico, and that while few species
migrate towards South  America,                          northwards on
approach of summer*.               many   go             Mexican fauna                                      the
                       It is true   that  the
                                                                                                            in-

     ·  Th"eThReevy.elMlorw. -cBraocwhnmeadn,wsaprebalkeirng(syolvf iatheconroenigahlab)ouisrhtohoedonolfy  Charlestown,
says,                                                                                                       sylvia out of

fifty species inhabiting the United States that remains with us in winter ; and
even this bird could not find subsistence in that season were it not that it

almost changes its nature and lives on the fruit of the candle-berry myrtle
(myrica cerifera). This is also the case with the only fly-catcher that winters
in Carolina, viz., the peewee (lyrannula fusca), which sometimes fattens on the
seeds of the imported tullow-tree (slylinyia cerifera).
                    ON NORTH AMERICAN ZOOLOGY.                                  193

eludes many birds of this family, but many of them are hatched
in the higher latitudes, to which, therefore, we consider them

as properly belonging. Comparatively a small number spend
the winter within the United States, more than half have been
ascertained to enter the West India islands or Mexico, yet only
one (the setophaga ruticilla) is known to pass the isthmus of
Darien, so that there are few families in which the distinction

between the North and South American faunae are so evident.

Of the few ampelidce which belong to the North American
fauna, hornby cilia carolinensis and vireo Bartramii are known
to visit South America. Bombycilla garrula breeds at the
northern extremity of the continent, among the woods which
skirt the Mackenzie ; but its winter retreats are still unknown,

though they         arCeoimdroossttrepsr.ob--abTlhyeinfrtihnegiMlliedxciBcanis  Cordilleras.
    Insessores,                                                                  another family
of which few species pass the isthmus of Darien from the
northern continent ; the pyratiga ludoviciana, which attains
the 42nd parallel in the interior prairies, and saltator nifiven-
tris, which reaches the 36th on the coast of the Pacific, are the

only ones common to the United States and South America.
The euphonejacarhia, also, and most probably some other Mexi

can species, enter the southern fauna. Many of the fringillida
that breed in the high latitudes winter within the United
States ; some go to Mexico, and a few to the West Indies.
The emberiza nivalis builds its nest on the most northern lands

that have been visited, and the alauda alpestris and emberiza lap-
ponica, likewise breed on the arctic coasts. The corvidee are com

paratively little migratory, and the majority inhabit limited
districts of country, though two or three species are very
widely distributed ; none which enter the North American fauna
are known to pass the isthmus of Darien. The sturnidee, on
the other hand, form a closer bond of union between the inter -

tropical and northern faunae ; nearly all the North American
species winter in Mexico or the West Indies, one, the icterus

spurius, ranging as far south as Cayenne. The southern parts
of the United States, however, are within the limits of the

winter- quarters of mololhrus pecoris, scolecophagus ferrugi-
neiis and quiscalus major, and versicolor. As cultivation ad
vances in the fur-countries, the sturnidce attract every year
more and more the attention of the settlers on account of the

havock they make in the corn-fields ; but we are not prepared
to assert that the range of this        faagmriiclyultoufreb.irdsI              northwards is
determined by the progress of                                                   am rather in

clined to suppose that some individuals of the different species
                                                   to feed on the wild
havveoal.lwva.y--s  resorted  to those  latitudes                               rice
                    1836.                 o
194 SIXTH REPORT -- 1836.

(zizania) and other grass-seeds, but remained unnoticed in the
marshes, until the labours of the husbandman providing them a
more abundant repast, they made their appearance in the vici
nity of the fur-posts. Mr. King, in his narrative of Captain
Back's expedition, mentions that a flock of scolecophagus ferru-
gineus continued feeding on the offal of a fishery on Great Slave
LakInes,eslsaot.re6s0, ^°S,caunnstoilrelsa.te--inThDeecpeicmidbceer,. or typical family of the
scansores, are, as we have already mentioned, mostly residen
tiary, yet some of the species are distributed over forty de
grees of latitude. In such cases, many individuals of a species
may seek a more southern residence in winter, though the fact
cannot be ascertained by consulting ornithological works, in
which the migration of a bird is seldom noticed, unless it
takes place in large flocks or entirely deserts the district ; but
it is undoubtedly true that near the northern limits of a resident
species, the individuals are more numerous in summer than in
winter. None of the North American picidce have been de
tected in South America. The cuculidce do not go to the north
ward of the valley of the St. Lawrence, only one species at
taining that parallel ; the majority of them certainly, perhaps
the whole, are common to South America also. The certhiadce

abound in Mexico, and none of them go far north. The troglo
dytes furviis, or aedon, which has the highest range, extends
also furthest to the south, the species, according to the Prince
of  Musignano,   Tbeeniunigrosptrreecsi.s--elyOtfhethesatmroechinilidSeuer,intahme .only
    Insessores,
                                                                                          family
of the tenuirostral tribe which detaches species northwards from
Mexico, the cynanthus colubris breeds as high as the 57th pa
rallel, on the eastern declivity of the Rocky mountains. The
trochilus anna, according to Lesson, goes equally high on the
coast of the Pacific, and Eschscholtz informs us that the trochilus

rufus reaches the 61st degree of latitude on the same shore.
The lampornis mango, a Brazilian species, has been detected
recently on the peninsula of Florida in the 25th parallel, and the
Reverend Mr. Bachman supposes that it is attracted thither
by certain tubular flowers, lately introduced into the gardens
in that quarter. This beautiful family of birds is numerous
in Mexico, the physical conditions of that country ensu
ring them a constant succession of tubular flowers by short mi
grations from the low tierras calientes, which enjoy a tropical
heat in winter, to the elevated plains and mountains as spring
advances. Lichtenstein informs us that many of the Mexican
humming birds pass the summer near the snow line, thus ob

taining by a comparatively short flight a change of climate, which
                ON NORTH AMERICAN ZOOLOGY.                                           195

their congeners above-named seek by traversing many degrees
of latitude. Captain King observed some humming birds ho
vering over the fuschi<e, which grow plentifully in the Straits of
                                                    the time covered withsnow.
Magalhaes,      thFeissgirrooustnrdesb.e--ingThaet  only species of the halcyonidce
   Insessores,

which enters North America, is universally distributed from
Louisiana up to the 68th parallel : its winter being spent in the
southern parts of the United States and in the West Indies.
Few birds have given rise to more speculation than the swallows.
Marvellous stories of their hybernating in caverns or at the bot
toms of lakes, were believed even recently by naturalists of repu
tation, yet there is scarcely a seaman, accustomed to navigate
the Mediterranean, who has not seen these birds migrating in
large flocks to or from the coast of Africa, accompanied by pre
dacious birds of various kinds. Mr. Audubon has skilfully
availed himself of the great facilities which America offers for
tracing the migrations of birds, so as to put to rest for ever the
question of the hybernation of swallows. From his investiga
tions, we are assured that the hirundo hicolor winters in the
neighbourhood of New Orleans, where it roosts at night in
hollow trees. Mr. Bach man also states, that this bird appears
in the neighbourhood of Charlestown in winter after a few
successive warm days. The other species winter in Mexico and
the West Indies ; and the hirundo purpurea and riparia, which
extend in summer to the northern extremity of the continent,
have a range southwards to the Brazils ; the former it is stated
by the Reverend Mr. Bachman breeding in the latter locality
during the winter of the northern hemisphere. A conjecture
that some species of birds might breed twice in the year in dif
ferent climates was                            in the introduction to the fauna
boreali-americana,             bhuaztaIrdaemd
                                               not aware of any direct testimony
to that effect having been adduced prior to the publication of

Mr. Bachman's paper. The caprimulgidce winter to the south
waRrdasoofretsh.e--UTnhitiesd
                                States.  least      migratory  of  all  the  orders  of
                               is the

birds, yet the species are in general readily acclimated in lati
tudes remote from their native haunts, and in fact it is from

these birds that man derives the greatest advantage in his do
mestic economy. Our common poultry were originallybrought
from warmer regions, and this furnishes another evidence of
abundance of proper food being more important than the tem
perature of the atmosphere in regulating the distribution of the
feathered tribes, the dense covering of their bodies protecting
them well from the severity of northern winters. There is,
however, a limit to the range of each species, and it is found
                                               o2
19G SIXTH REPORT -- 183G.

that poultry thrive best in our climates when their coops arc
artificially heated in winter. The tetraonidce are comparatively
inhabitants of cold countries, and the ptarmigans, which are the
most northern of all, are almost the only migratory ones. Most
of these birds quit the bleak arctic barren lands in which they
are bred, and retire in winter to the verge of the woods, return
ing, however, very early in spring to their former haunts, or as
soon as the decreasing snow has released the tops of the dwarf
birches and willows on which they feed, and the crests of a few
gravelly banks. The passenger pigeon migrates northwards to
the 62nd parallel, after its breeding season in the United States
has terminated ; through stress of weather individuals have
been driven very far north, an instance being recorded by
Sir John Ross, of the capture of one on the coast of Greenland.
This pigeon visits Carolina in the winter at long and uncertain
intervals, its arrival being determined, according to the Reve
rend Mr. Bachman, not by the severity of the season, but by the
scarcity of food to the north : when beech mast is plentiful in
Canada, it remains there in immense multitudes all the winter.

The grallatores are directly opposed to the rasores in being
the most migratory order of birds. The scolopacida and seve
ral species of the other families breed in high latitudes, yet they
winter within the tropics. In their migrations through the fur
countries they pursue different routes in the spring and fall : thus
at the time of the northern movement, the lateness of the summer
on the coast of Hudson's Bay, and the quantity of ice which
hangs on its shores till late in the year, exclude from that quarter
the barges, snipes, and curlews which therefore pass by the inte
rior prairies, where the melting snow has rendered the soil soft
and spungy. In autumn again the prairies having been ex
posed to the action of a hot and generally very dry summer, are
comparatively arid, but the late thaws on the coast flood the
neighbouring flats even in August and September, and it is there
accordingly that the soft-billed waders pass a month or six
weeks on their way from their arctic breeding stations to
the moist intertropical lands. The marshes and sand-banks in the
estuaries of Hay, Nelson, Severn, and Moose rivers are resorted
to in the fall of the year by immense flocks of strand birds.
The following herons are stated by the Reverend Mr. Bachman
to breed in Carolina, ardea herodias, ludoviciana, candidissima,

rufescens, ccerulea,  virescens, nycticorax, violacea, and exilis.
                      great majority of North American birds be
   Nalatores. --The

longing to this order, breed to the north of the valley of the
St. Lawrence, and are merely winterers or birds of passage in
the middle states. The lakes of Mexico are the chief winter
                 ON NORTH AMERICAN ZOOLOGY.             197

resort of the anatidee. The anas boschas has been found breed
ing from the lower part of the Mississippi up to the extremity
of the continent, but in greatest abundance beyond the 50th
parallel ; and the anser canadensis from the 44th parallel to an
equally high latitude, being also however most numerous in the
fur countries. The rest of the geese and many of the ducks
breed only within the arctic circle. The eider and king-ducks
remain at sea in the high latitudes all the winter, the young only
going southwards to the coast of Labrador and the United
States. No others of the family winter higher than the 50th
parallel in America, though several species remain at that season
in Europe as high as the 60th degree of latitude.
   The Reverend Mr. Bachman has made some observations on

the effect of cultivation in influencing the movements of birds,
but we think that he goes too far when he attributes the recent
discovery of many new species within the limits of the United
States solely to the changes produced in the face of the country,
for the more general diffusion of accurate ornithological know
ledge ought not to be overlooked. Thus among the examples
of birds formerly rare but now common in the middle states,
he quotes hirundo lunifrons, but this, (if identical with fulva,
which is generally admitted,) was taken by Vieillot on the coast
of New York, many years before the history compiled by Go
vernor Clinton supposes it to have reached that state in its
gradual advance from the interior ; and the aborigines of the
more northern countries have no tradition of a time when it did
not breed on the perpendicular faces of their rocks. The sin
gularity in its history is, that it should have so very recently
begun to quit the rocks and to put itself under the protection

of man, by building its nests under the eaves of houses. Ty-
rannus borealis (muscicapa Cooperii of Nuttall), vireo solitarhis
and tringa himantopus, also newly detected in the United States,
breed in the uncultivated wastes of the fur countries.
   The migration of the feathered tribes from the       " tierras

ralientes"  of"  the Mexican coast  to the interior elevated plains
and peaks,       tierras templadas
                                    y frias," presents within a
smaller geographical range, as we have noticed in speaking of
the humming birds, all the phenomena that take place in the
extended flights from the intertropical regions to the arctic so
litudes.

                              REPTILIA.

    Catesby figured a portion of the North American animals of
this class, but we are indebted to the labours of living naturalists
198 SIXTH REPORT -- 1836.

f"orPhthileaddeislpcohviaeryJouorfnmalanoyf  more.    ST"hceiSesinellcimeasar,e"n'sdtheesJcor"uibrLenydacle,"iunmatnhodef
                                             Natural
Natural History of New York,"
other periodical works, the chief writers being Messieurs Green,
Say, Harlan,  and Gilliams.                  HaArlansu, memntairtlyedof"             is con
tained in a   paper by Dr.                                                the whole
                                                                          Genera of   North

American Reptilia (including Amphibia), and a synopsis of the
species," read in 1826 before the Philadelphia Academy, and
subsequently reprinted, in a separate form with some alterations.
Still more                  Dr. Holbrook of Charleatown has com
            "recNeonrttlyh  American Herpetology," which is to be
menced a
completed in four quarto numbers, each containing from 20 to
"30 coloured engravings and 200 pages of letter press.                               Wieg-
                                                                                     Mexi-
mann has also published a volume of his Herpetologia
cana," embracing both reptilia and amphibia, having previously
described many species in the Isis.
The warm, moist atmosphere of tropical America is very
favourable to the existence of reptilia, which are more numerous
there than in any other quarter of the world ; and they occur
even in North America, in much greater numbers and variety
than in Europe. In the present imperfect state of North
American herpetology, it would serve little purpose to attempt
a formal disquisition on the distribution of the reptiles of that
country, or to compare their numbers with those existing in

the European zoological province, especially as these tasks may
be performed with so much more success, when we become ac
quainted with the labours of Holbrook and Wiegmann. In the
mean time we shall merely offer a few brief remarks. With the
exception, perhaps, of one or two species of sea-turtles, none
either of the reptilia or amphibia are common to the New and
Old World ; and it will be observed that the reptilia, though
fewer in number in Europe, attain higher latitudes there than
in North America. An etnys inhabits the river Winipec in the
latter country in the 50th parallel, but the env/s Europtea goes
some degrees further north in Prussia. The crocodiliis acutus,
which resembles the crocodile of the Nile so closely as to have
been even mistaken for it, keeps within the tropics ; it is an
inhabitant of the West Indies and also of the Spanish Main, but
to no great distance from the equator, for Humboldt believes that
its northern limit is the peninsula of Yuccatan or the southern
part of Mexico. Now, though crocodiles do not in the present
day descend the Nile lower than Upper Egypt, they formerly
inhabited the Delta at the mouth of that river, lying under the
31 ^° degree of latitude, where they were wont to pass the three
winter months in burrows. In this respect they resemble the
            ON NORTH AMERICAN ZOOLOGY.                                                                 199

alligator lucius or Mississippiensis, which attains the 32J° N.
latitude, and in Georgia and Carolina winters in burrows.
The ophidia swarm in the humid equatorial districts of Ame
rica, but disappear on the acclivities of the Cordilleras, at
an altitude of 6000 feet, and a mean annual temperature of
64° F. In the fur countries they reach the 55th parallel where
the mean heat is about the freezing point, but where the tem
perature of the three summer months, during which only the
serpents are visible, is at least 66° F. and very little inferior to
the summer heat of the Mexican table lands. In Europe the
isothermal line of 32° passes through the North Cape (lat. 71°
10^' N.), and we find accordingly that some serpents (as the
coluber berus) reach Norway. In like manner lizards (lacerta
ocellata) exist in Kamtschatka and Sweden, though none of the
sanrians pass to the north of the 50th parallel in America. The
following is a list of the genera of European and Egyptian rep

tiles, with the number of species noticed in Mr. Gray's synop
sis, or the Regne animalgiven for thepurpose of comparison with
ttshipleehsasr:ugbiCsjohi3en.leodnEiamt.a--ybdleToessoatfuurdNi.oor--2th;CrAcoimsctoeudrdiicloian12.;
                                                                                                       ones. European rep
lacerta 14; psammodromus 1 ; algyra 1.
                                                                                                        eSmGaeyucsrkiio.1t--i;dtMetr.oio--nniytPoxlar t12y-;;

dactylus 2  ;--ZsoAtnegunaromiddcsaesc.ty--l6u.sOp1hS;cioinstchaieudceroueds.a--c1t.ySlucsOinpch2uis;diah1e. m--; idTtairlciigqtyoulnuasoc2e2.;
Iguanidce.

anguis 1.
phaly 2 ; vipera 1 ; berus 2 ; pelias 1 ; echis 1 ; naia 1 ; tro-
pidonotus 5 ; coluber 6 ; coronella 3 ; dendrophis 1 .

   Obs. --The following list of American reptilia is compiled
chiefly from Mr. Gray's synopsis in Griffith's translation of
Cuvier, and will appear meagre and inaccurate after the publi
cation of Wiegmann's and Holbrook's works. Species which do
not range north of Mexico are in Italics.

       Ord. I. CHELONIA.        Emys concentrica, Schoipk. 15.
         Fam. TestudinidjE.          ,, reticularia, Daud. 23, 3.
                                     ,, villain,
Testudo polyphemus, Bartr. 18.
                                ,,  decussata,
              Fam. Emydje.      ,,
                                    scripts, Schojpf. 3, 5.
Cistudo Carolina, Holb. 1.
Linys Muhlenbergii, Id. 5.      ,, serrata,

     ,, guttata, Schoipf. 31.        ,, rugosa,
     ,, punctata, Holb. 4.      Kino,,,,stertuTLrmeooStsurtieipiu,orriciH,aotGulbmr.a,y4,.Wikg. 15. Mex.
      ,, picta, S< no i'! . 5.       ,, »corpioi4e>, Shaw, 15. Mex.
     ,, speriosa, Id.                ,, pennsylvanicura, Edw. 287.
                                     ,, odoratum, Daud. 21, 3.
                                C'hclydra serpentina, ScHoipr. 6.
200 SIXTH RKPORT -- 1836.

        Fatn. Trionychidje.                                                                              Phrynosoma cornutum, arl. Ac. Sc. Ph.
                                                                                                                    20. Western prairies.II
Trionyx ferox, Schcspf. 19, 12, 3.                                                                            ,, orbiculare, Wieg.
    ,, miiticus, Le Sueur. Mem. Mus.                                                                     Chamalopsis Hernandesii,                                 7.Mex.
                  15, 257.                                                                                                                 Wieg.    Mex.

        Fam. Cheloniadj-                                                                                 Anolius podargicus, Cat. 66. Holb.

Sphargis imbricata, Schiepf. 18, a.                                                                                 Carol.
     ,, mydas, Id. 17, 1.                                                                                          bimaculatus, W. Ind. U. S.
     ,, caretta, Id. 16.                                                                                 ,,        buUaris, Lacep. 27. W. Ind.
                                                                                                         ,,
   Ord. II. EMYDOSAURII.                                                                                            Mex.
                                                                                                                   nebulosus, Wieg. Mex.
         Fam. Crocodilid^;.                                                                              ,,        keviventris, Wieg. Mex.
                                                                                                         ,,
Crocodilus rhombifer, Wieg. W.Ind.Mex.                                                                   ,, biporcatus. Id. Mex.
Alligator luciug, Cuv. An. Mus. X. Georg.                                                                ,, Schicdii, Id. Mex.

                  Missies.                                                                                          Fam. Teid^e.

                                                                                                         Amciva    cjeruleocephala,   Seba. 91,                                                                                                          3.
                                                                                                               ,,  tessellata, Say.   Long. Exp.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Ark.

  Ord. III. AMPHISB.ENIJE.                                                                                   ,, coUaris, Id. Ark.          Wieg.    Mex.
                                                                                                         Cnemidophorus undulatus,
Chirotes lumbricoides, Lacep. 41. Mex.                                                                   ,, Deppii, Id. Mex.
                                                                                                         ,, SackU, Id. Mex.
                                                                                                         ,, guttaius, Id. Mex.

         Ord. IV. SAURII.                                                                                           Fam. Scincidje.

Holoderma horridum, Wagler, 2, 18.                                                                       Tiliqua quinquelineata, Cat. 67. Mex.
                                                                                                                    (Wieg.) Carol.
                 Mex.                                                                                    ,, erythrocephala, GiiA..Ac.Sc.PhiI.

          Fam. Geckotidje.                                                                                               18, 2.
                                                                                                                    1,
Platydactylus americanus, Gray.                                                                                            1.
                  York.
                                                                                                                         I

                                                                                                                                             4,
                                                                                                                                                   f.
                                                                                                                                                             1.

                                                                                                                                                                  4,
                                                                                                New      ,,        lateralis,  Say. Holbr. 8.       West.st.
                                                                                                         ,,        bicolor,    Harl. Ac. Sc.
                                                                                                                                                    Phil

                                                                                                                    18,                                                                                                                                  Carol.
                                                                                                         Bipes anguinus, Id.
          Fam. Iguanid-k.                                                                                Corythaelus vittalus,   c. 10.

                                                                                                                                 Wieg. Mex.

Iguana tuberculata, Spix. 6, 8. S. Am.                                                                              Fam. Zonurid.35.
                 Mex.
ACmtebnloysrahuynrachcuyschicrroiisdteastu, sW, iWegie. gM. eMx.ex.                                      Gerrhonotus Deppii, Wieg. /*. 21.                                                                                                               Mex.
                                                                                                         Oph,,,,,,,,,,isaurulirttemeuasisodnbsciievraecilepocltauhnatttasuttirul.ssua,.ssl,,IisdId,I.Id.dIC.d. a.ctc.c..c.M.cM5M.e9Me.xMexe.x.exV.x.. .
      ,,  cyclura, Cuv. Carol.                                                             Sc.  4,  15.                          I. I I I /.
Cyclura   carinata, Haul. Ph. Ac.
                                                                                                                                                            S.
          Bahamas.
          teres, Id. Tampico.
,,        pcclinata, Wieg. Mex.
,,
,, articulala, Id. Mex.
     ,, denticulata,   Id. Mex.                                                                                    Ord:\. OPHIDIA.
Lamanctus longipes,    Wieg. Mex.
                                                                                                         Crotalus horridus, Cat. 41. S. Am. Mex.
OScpehlyeepshsoafrotuorurmsmgouubsanrutadus,u,sl,DaWtaWuuisei,deg.gW..CiMeaIsegliifxs..,.                               U.S.
                                                                                           U. St.                  durissus,   Spix.  24.  S.  Am. --45°                                                                                                       N.
                                                                                           21. Mex.
                                                                                                                   miliaris, Cat. 42. Carol
          spinosus, Id. Mex.                                                                                       tergeminus, Say. West. st.
          horridus, Id. Mex.                                                                                       eonfluentis, Id. R. Mount,
          grammicus, Id. Mex.                                                                                      triserialus, Wieg. Mex.
                                                                                                                    mockeson, Cat.
          microltpidotus, Id. Mex.                                                                       Cenchris    Shausii, Gray.        45.                                                                                                           Carol.
          variabilis, Id. Mex.                                                                           Tisiphone                         S. Am.

          emeus, Id. Mex.                                                                                Trigonocephalus cacodema, Cat. 44. Ca-
                                                                                                                    rol
          scalar Id. Mex.is,                                                                             Scytale piscworus, Harl.

           pleuros/ictus, Id.   Mex.                                                       Lin. Tr.           ,, cupreus, Id.         Cat.     76.  Carol
Phrvnosoma Douglasii,                                                                                    Hctcrodon constrictor,
                               Bell.

          . N. Calif.
            ON NORTH AMERICAN ZOOLOGY.                                                                               201

Tropidinotus porcatus, Cat. 46. Carol.                        Coluber amocnus, Haul. Perms.
,, ortlinatus, Cat. 53. Carol. Sf X.                                     rigidus, Id. 5. St.
    Mount.                                                                septemvittatus, Id. Perms.
,, proximus, Say. Missouri.                                               coccineus, Id. Carol.
,, parietalis, Id. Missouri.                                             lEstivus, Id. Carol.
,, fasciatus, Shaw. S. St.                                                getulus, Id. Carol.
,, sirtalis, Perms.                                                       calligaster, Id. Missouri.
,,  saurita, Cat. 50. S. St.                                              melanoleucas, Id. A'. Jersey.
,,                                                                        eximius, Id. Perms.
    sipedon, Harl. Mid. St.                                               vernabs, Id. Perms. N. Jers.
Coluber punctatus, Lin.                                                   cauda-schistosus, Id.
    goebtsuolluestu, sC, aHt.a5r2l.. 5. Carol.                            doliatus, Id. Carol
,,                                                                        niaculatus, Id. Louis.
,,                                                                        guttatus, Id. CaroL
,, testaceus, Id. Missouri.                                               niolossus, Id. Carol.
,, filiformis, Id. Carol.                                                 reticularis, Id. Louis.
,, flagelliformis, Id. Carol.
,, flaviventris. Id. Missouri.                                Xeuodon punctatum, Latr. 5. Carol.
,, striatulus, Id. Carol.

                                AMPHIBIA.

    Rana.                                                     Salamandra fusca, Green. N.                    Jers.

Rana pipiens, Cat. Mid. St.                                            dorsalis, Harl. CaroL
                                                                        picta, Harl. Perm.
,, clamitans, Bosc. Ditto.                                              Beechii, Gray.
,, melanota, Raf. L. Ckampl.
,,  fhlaavlei-cviniraid, isC, atH. aPuelr.mM. Sidf .S.StS.t.            maculata, Green. Ar. Jers.
,,                                                                      subfusca, Id. Ditto.
                                                                        longicauda. Id. Ditto.
,, sylvatica, Id. Ditto.                                                nigra, Id. Perm.
,, pal ust ris, Id. Ditto.
,, pumila, Le Conte.                                                    navissima, Harl. Ditto.
,, gryllus, Holbrook. Flor. Mid. St.
                                                                        Greenii, Gray.

,, nigrita, Le Conte.                                                   erythronota, Green.
                                                                        cinerea, Green.
     ,, ocellata, Shaw 34. Mex. Florid.                                 fasciata, Green.
Hyla lateralis, Cat. Surin, Carol.                                      gsylumtimnoestari,caG, rHeeanr.l.NCewaroJel.rs.
,, femoralis, Daud. 5. St.                                              cylindracea, Harl. Carol,
,, squirella, Daud. 5. St.                                    Menobranpclahtuysdacltaytlear,alisC,uvH. aMrelx. . An. Lye.
,, delitescens, Le Conte. Georgia.
     ,, versicolor. Id. Mid.  Sf S. St.
Bufo clamosus, Cat. Ditto.
,, cognatus, Say. Long's Exp. Mist.                                     alle1g, h1a6n.ieLn.siCsk, aSmapyl..  Ohio.
,, fuscus, Perm.                                              ,,                                             Griff.  Cuv.
                                                              Phyllhydrus piscifbrmis, Shaw 140. Mex.

    Salamandra.                                               Amphiuma means, An. Lye. 1, 22. Carol.

                                                                        Mex.

Salamandra subviolacea, Cat. 10. Perm.                              ,,      tridactylum,  Cuv.    Louis.
,, tigrina, Green, New Jers.                                  Siren                       5. 5/.
                                                                        lacertina, Lin.
    rubra, Daud.                                              ,, intermedia, Le Conte. & St.
,,  variolata, Gilliam-, Ac. Sc. PA.                               ,, st rial us, Id.     AnH. aLryle..
,,                                                            Menopoma gigantca,                             1, 2.
                                                                                                             An. Lye.
              1, 18, 1.                                                                                                  1,

,, cylindracea, Harl. N. Carol.                                         17. Ohio

,, frontalis, .V. Jers.

   Note. -- In the above list, rana scapularis, Harl., is considered as the young

of pipiens, and rana gryllus and dorsalis of Le Conte as one species. Sala
mandra rubriventris, Green, is considered the same with rubra; sinciput-
albida, Green, the same with frontalis; intermixta, Gbeen, the same with
picta, and variegata of Gray with platydaclylus. Salamandra porphyritica,
Jeffersoniana, and cirrhigera of Harlan's list, being very doubtful species, are
omitted.
202 SIXTH RBPORT -- 1836.

Our remarks on the amphibia will be still more brief than on

the reptiles. Some amphibia are evidently more capable of en
during extremes of temperature than the reptilia, and they exist
in higher latitudes ; frogs and salamanders reaching the 67th
parallel on the Mackenzie, where the mean temperature is not
above 7 or 8 degrees of Fahrenheit, and the winter colds some

times descend to more than 90° below the freezing point.
Spallanzani relates that living frogs have been seen in the ther
mal baths of Pisa, which have a temperature of 115° F. In the
fur countries the pools of melting snow swarm with very noisy
frogs long before the soil is thawed ; the office of reproduction

is performed and the pools dried up by the time that the ice
of the lakes is dissolved, and before the earth is sufficiently
warmed to permit the snakes to crawl forth from their subter
ranean retreats. The principal genera rana, bufo, hyla, and
salamandra occur both in Europe and North America. The
genera siren and menopoma belonging to the latter couutry, are
perfectly amphibious, the mature animals possessing both lungs
and gills, and respiring at pleasure either air or water. The
only analogous animal of the Old World is the protcus atiguinus
Iof the lakes of Lower Carniola, and the grotto of Adelsberg,
between Trieste and Vienna.  observed on the banks of the

pMoaoclkoefnzwieatearvienrythseinsgpurlianrg.looIktinwgastadapbooluet  which swarmed in a
                                                                        the size of a man's
thumb, and its abdomen was greatly distended with fluid,' but

its integuments were quite transparent, and so tender that they
burst on the slightest touch. Circumstances did not admit of
my describing it at the time, and the specimens put into spirits

were destroyed by accident.

                             PISCES.

The ichthyology of North America has not hitherto been at
tended to as it merits, and the distribution of the species through
a very large portion of the northern hemisphere is still almost
unknown. Catesby, Pennant, and Schcepf are the chief author
ities of older date, for the introduction of the American fish into
the systems, but the Linnean genera are so ill adapted for the
reception of many of the forms peculiar to the New World,
and the specific descriptions of the old writers are so brief and
indeterminate, that the labours of these naturalists are often
altogether unavailable to modern cultivators of science. Le
Sueur, the most accurate of  rtehceen"t  American ichthyologists, has
described many species in                Journal of                         tAhecad"eTmraynsof
Sciences of Philadelphia,"   in the                                    the
                                         new series                    of
             ON NOKTH AMERICAN ZOOLOGY.                                        203

tahcetion"s    of the  Pdh'ilHosisotpohiricealNaStoucrieeltlye""  of the same   city, and in
             Museum                                                of Paris.   Dr. Mitchill
                                     the New York fish in the first volume of
pthuebl"isThreadnsaapcatipoenrs  on  the Philosophical Society of New York,"
                                 of

but his descriptions are almost always imperfect, and often in
accurate, and he has arranged the species without judgement
in Linnean genera, so that but for the accompanying figures it
would be difficult to recognise the fish he mentions. Ra-
finesque-Smaltz gave to the world a crude synopsis of the fish
of the Ohio, proposing many new genera, but characterising
them with so little skill, that there is little chance of their being
adopted by future naturalists. His species are printed in the
subjoined lists in italic characters, as being doubtful. The
third volume of the Fauna horeali-americana is devoted to the

northern fish, and contains a considerable proportion of the
species which inhabit the fresh waters of the fur countries : it
is, however, very deficient in marine fish, and even in the fresh
water ones of New Caledonia and Canada, owing to the author's
attempts to procure specimens from these countries having
failed. The admirable Histoire des Foissons by Cuvier and
Valenciennes embraces all the determinable species noticed by
preceding naturalists, but it has not yet advanced beyond the
acanthapterygii, the untimely death of its great projector having
retarded its progress. The arrangement of this work is fol

lowed in the subsequent lists of species. In it and in the Rigne
animal 16 families of acanthopterygian fishes are indicated.
All these families are represented by a greater or smaller num
ber of species both in Europe and America, with the exception
of the anabasidetB, none of which exist in the waters of either
country ; of the acanthuridcce which do not occur in Europe ;
and of the tcenioidece, which, as restricted in the Histoire des

Poissons, have not been detected in America. · All the families

of malacopteri/gii and chondropterygii enter the faunae of both
countries, with the exception of the sauroidece of Agassiz, which
do not exist in Europe. The only fresh water fish which is
unequivocally common to the two continents is the common
pike, (esox lucius,) and it is curious that this fish is unknown
to the westward of the Rocky Mountains, on the very coast that
approaches nearest to the old continent. Several other Euro
pean fresh water fish occur in the lists given by American ichthy
ologists, but more rigid comparisons are required to sanction
their application of the names. Some of the anadromous sal-

monoideee and clupeoidecc are more likely to be common to both
sides of the Atlantic, but even these require further investiga
tion. The curiosity of naturalists has been considerably ex
204 SIXTH REPORT 1836.

cited by the noises which certain fishes have the power of making,
and some facts are stated in the Histoire dcs Poissons relating
to this   subject in the
noideee,  &c. Several      chapters devoted to    tnhaemecdott"ogurleucnct, ssc"ieein-
                          kinds of fish vulgarly
America, possess this faculty in an extraordinary degree, and the
purpose it is intended to serve, and the manner in which the
sound is produced, are worthy of investigation by naturalists re
siding where thesefishabound*. Every mariner who has anchored
early in the spring on the coasts of South Carolina, Georgia,
or Florida, must have been annoyed by a drumming noise, pro
duced in the night, apparently on the bottom of the ship, and
loud enough to deprive a stranger of rest, until habit has ren
dered the sound familiar. This noise is said to be caused by a
fish of about six pounds weight beating its tail against the vessel
to relieve itself from the pain caused by multitudes of parasitic
worms which infest it at that season.

   In dividing the ocean into zoological districts to suit our
present knowledge of species of fish and their distribution, we
                          following divisions
have found the nine        American Atlantic      to be convenient.

European seas,-- North                            and Arctic sea, --
s--NCeaoarIrnsitb,dh--bi-eawanSenesatOssceAeaoamfanen,CrdhicRinSaeao,d--uthaSPneaAdacm,ifJeiacarpnicacdaonna,Ps--otAltySolanefneatsSiiocaou,n--fthKSAaAefmrmai,cte--sarcnihAcaauAt.stktlaaranIlntaiiancn,da
preceding part of the Report we stated that Mr. Swainson had
justly included the North of Africa in the European zoological
province, as far as birds were concerned, but the case is different
with the fish. The whole of the Mediterranean fish indeed are
European, but the fish of the Nile have very little resemblance
to those of the European rivers, while the same species often
occur on the coast of Senegal and in the Red Sea. The ana-
dromous fish of the Mississippi and its tributaries are very dif
ferent from those %vhich enter the North American rivers falling
into the Atlantic, in the same parallels of latitude.
   As in the preceding lists, the species whose names or history
are doubtful are printed in italics, as are likewise the Mexican
fish which do not range further northwards.

          ACANTHOPTERYGII.

          Fam. PercoidejE.

Perca flavcseens, Cuv. New Y. --L. Huron.  Pcrca gracilis, Cuv. A'. York.
     ,, serrato-granulata, Cuv. N. York.        ,, Plutnieri, Cuv. Bahamas.
    ,, granulata, Cuv. A'. York.
    ,, acuta, Cuv. L. Ontario.             Labrax lineatus, Cuv. N. York.
                                                ,, notatus, F. B. A. Si Later.

          * Vide Alien,. Orn. Biogr. 3, p. 199.
                    ON NORTH AMERICAN ZOOLOGY.                                                                                        205

Labrax mucronatus, Ccv. Caribb. S. -- N.                                                        Pomotis incisor, Cuv. L. Pontchartr.
                                                                                                     ,, gibbosus, Cuv. Carol.
          York.                                                                                      ,, solis, Cuv. L. Pontchartr.
                                                                                                     ,, Catesbei, Cuv. Penns.
,, multilineatus, Ccv. Wabash r.                                                                Bryttus punctatus, Cuv. Ohio.
Pomacampsis nigro-punctata, Rap.          ONh. --io.                                                 ,, reticulums, Cuv. Carol.
Lucioperca americana, Cuv. 40°                                                                       ,, unicolor, Cuv. Carol. Penns.
          58° N.                                                                                Jchthelis cyanella, Raf. Ohio.
,, canadensis, H.Smith, Griff. Cuv.
          St. later.
Huro nigricans, Cuv.     L. Huron.
Serranus fascicularis,   Cuv. Braz.   -- Carol.                                                      ,, melanops, Id. Ohio.
                                                                                                     ,, erylhrops. Id. Ohio.
,,        mono, Cuv.     N. York.     --  Braz.                                                      ,, auri/a, Id. Ohio.
,,        acutirostris,  Cuv. Carol.                                                                 ,, megalotis. Id. Ohio.
                                                                                                Pomoxis annularis, Id. Ohio.
,, ? Benn. San Bias. Pacjf.
Centropristes nigricans, Ccv. N. York.                                                          Apkcentris calliops, Raf. Ohio.
     ,, trifurcus, Cuv. Carol.                                                                  Lepibema chrysops, Raf. Ohio.
Grystes salmoides, Cuv. Wabash. Rivers                                                          Aphrodederus gibbosus, Lksueur. /..

              of Carol.  Rap. Ohio.                                                                               Pontch. Penns.

Slizostedion salmoneum.                                                                         Trichodon Stclleri, Cuv. Unalasch. Gil-
Centrarchus aineus, Cuv. L. Ontario
                                          Sf                                                                     LIAMS.  Cuv.    Braz. --
          Huron.                                                                                Holocentrum longipinne,
,, pentacanthus, Cuv. Carol.
,, hexacanthus, Cuv. Carol.                                                                         Carol.

,, irideus, Cuv. Carol                                                                          Uranoscopus anoplos, Cuv. Massach.
                                                                                                    Smith.
,, gulosus, Cuv. L. Pontchartr.                                                                 Sphyraena l)arracuda, Cuv. Bahamas.
          viridis, Cuv. Ditto.                                                                  Polynemus tridigitatus, Cuv. New      Y.
     ,,   vulgaris, Cuv. Philad.  --LMuron.
Pomotis                                                                                                      Mitch.
,, Ravenelii, Cuv. Charlestown.                                                                     ,, approximans, Bknn. San Bias.
,, Holbrookii, Cuv. Carol.                                                                      Upeneus punctatus, Cuv. Caribb. s. Mexm

                                  Fam. CoTTOiDEiE.

Trigla pini*, Bl. New Y. Europe.                                                                Aspidophorus accipenserinus, Cuv. Una
Prionotus strigatus, Cuv. N. York.                                                                               laschka.
Dact,,,,yloptcterariubrosuUlonsvu,osl,iCtaCunuvsv.*.,NNL..YaYocorkrk.G.--.MoCafsasMraoecl.xh..
                                                                                                     ,, monopterygius, Cuv. Greenl.
                                                                                                Hemitripterus americanus, Cuv. N. York.

               Newfound.      Arct.   Am. --                                                                   --New/.  Cuv. Unalasch. --
          cognatus, F. B. A.                                                                    Hemilepidotus Tilesii,

Coitus                                                                                              Ochotsk.
                                                                                                ,, asper, F.B.A. 95, 1. Columbia R.
     ,,   GreenL t                                                                              Temnistia ventricosa, Escn. 13. Norfolk
     ,,   oobio* ? Smith. Massach.
     ,,   quadricornis ? Id. Do.
      ,,  polaris, Sabine, Parry's Is. 75N°.                                                    SSecboar,,sptteesnabnuofprsovoo,eurcgnCuiducsuv*Ps.,a*,LrBCi.fru.aNzv...--NYeoNwrkef..w----/. EGuArrueoedpne. l..
     ,,   hexacornis, F.B.A. Polar sea.                                                              ,, variabiUs, Cuv. Unalasch.
          octodecim spinosus, Mitch. Virg.
          --N.York.
                                                                                                Blepsias trilobus, Cuv. N. W. Coast.
     ,, poen\xa6ic\ss,F.B.A.^h,2.Newf.                                                          Gasterosteus concinmis, F.B.A. Arctic Am.
                  --GreenL                                                                      ,, noveboracensis, Cuv. New Y.
                                                                                                ,, niger, Cuv. Newf.
    ,, polyacanthocepbalus, Pall. Cape                                                          ,, biaculeatus, Pens. New Y.
                                                                                                    occidentaUs, Cuv.
                  St. Elias. 60° N.                                                             ,,  quadracus, Mitch.    Newf.
     ,, scorpioides, Fabr, GreenL                                                               ,,                        N. York.
     ,, MitchiUi, Cuv. N. York.                                                                 ,, apeltes, Lesukur, U. St.
                                                                                                ,, kaktiisak, Fabr. GreenL
    ,, ameus, Mitch. N. York.
     ,, porosus, Cuv. Baffin's Bay.
     ,, pistiUiger, Cuv. Unalaschka.
Aspidophorus europaeus*, Cuv. Greenl.

                Mass. Smith.
20(5 SIXTH REPORT -- 183G.

                               Fam. Sci.ENorDE.-E.

CtoHtbus rcgalis, Cuv. Carrib. t.--N.                                                                  Etheostoma calliura, Raf. Ohio,
                                                                                                                                Id. Ohio,
    York.                                                                                                        flabeliata.    Ohio,
     ,, Drummondii, F.B.A. Texas.                                                                                nigra, Id.
     ,, carolinensis, Cuv. Carol.                                                                                blennioides, Id. Ohio,
Corvina argyroleuca, Cuv.                                                                                        caprodes, Id. Ohio,
     ,, Richardsonii, F.B.A.77.L.Ifuron.                                                                                        Id. Ohio.
     ,, oscula, Cov. L. Ontario.                                                                                   fontinalis,   Cuv. G.   of Mex. --
     ,, grisea, Le Sueur, Ac. Se. Ph. 2,                                                               Umbrina albums,
                                                                                                       PPooggoo,,nstiaosmfaacshclreioaumtcuNoipss.,s, ,YLCoaRvrckvak..fMp..oOnAhfrii.or..Yo--rk,.V.
                 251. Ohio.                                                                            Micropogon lineatus, Cuv. Monliv.                                                             York.
                                                                                                                                                                                                     -- .V.
     ,, multifasciata, Id. /. c. Florida.
Lepomis pallida, Raf. Ohio.
     ,, trifasciata, Id. Do.
     ,, fiexuolaris. Id. Do.                                                                                     York.
     ,, salmonea, Id. Do.                                                                                  ,, undulattts, Cuv. G. of Mex.
     ,, valuta. Id. Do.                                                                                Hscmulon arcuatum, Cuv. Carol.
     ,, ichtheloides. Id. Do.                                                                          ,, chrysopteron, Cuv. A". York.
Leiostoma humeralis, Cuv.      Perms.-- N.                                                             Pristiporaa fasciatum, Cuv. N. York.
                                                                                                                    rodo, Cuv. A". York.
,,            York.  Carib.      s.-- Carol.                                                                 ,,  surinamensis.Cuv.Sur.     --  .V.                                                   York.
    xanthurus. Cuv.                                                                                    Lobotcs
Amblodon grunniens, Raf. Ohio.

                               Fam. Sparoide^e.

Sargus ovis, Cuv. G. of Mex. -- A'. York.                                                              Pagrus argyrops, Cuv. Carol. N. York.
     ,, rhomboides, Cuv. Do. Do.                                                                                 ? Benn. San Bias. Pacif.
                                                                                                       Dcntex
Chrysophrys aculeata, Cat. 31, 2. U. St.

                    Fam. M^exoide^e.
           Gerres aprion, Cuv. Carib. s. Mex. -- Carol.

                     Fam. Ch/Etodontoide/E.

Ephippus faber, Cuv. A*. York.                                                                         Pimeleptcrus Boscii, Lacep. Carol.
Holo,,canthug3rigiba.sc,isl.iCa--ruisvC,.arDoLol.a. cep. Mex.
                                                               Ca

                                 ScOMBEROIDE^E.

'T^v^jMrron.AT.^.^.                                                                                    Notacanthus nasus, Cuv. Greenland.
,, scomber, Smith. Massach. f                                                                          Caranx punctatus, Cuv. Carib. s. -- N.
                                                                                                                   York.
Thynnus vulgaris*, Cuv. Mass. ? Smith.
TCPreyiclbahimuiumyrsusmsaarldecapu,tlauCtruuumsv,,.CCAu'u.vv.Y.BorrMakz.e.x--. --N.MYaosrsk..         ,, chrysos, Cuv. Massach. J Smith.
                                                                                                            ,, fasciatus, Cuv. Mex.
                                                                                                       Argyreyosus vomer, Lacep.           Braz. --N.

Xiphias gladius. Smith. Mass. ?                                                                        Vomer         York.  35°S.--  B45ra°zN. .--.V.  York.
Naucrates --duEctuorr.* Cuv. N.York. Mass.                                                                       Brownii,    Cuv.
TErlcacc,,ahtienotafuutslsaungst,liacuac,CuuCsv,u.Cv.uvBB.rraaCzza.. r----ib.AAs*'...--YYoMorker.kx..            35° S.--45° N.
                                                                                                       Seriola Boscii, Cuv. Carolina.
              Mitch.                                                                                   ,, fasciata, Cuv. Do.
                                                                                                       ,, leiarcha, Cuv. Penns.
                                                                                                                 zonata, Cuv. A'. York.
,,  argenteus, Cuv. A*. York.                                                                          ,,        cosmopolita, Cuv. Braz. --New
,,  pampanus, Cuv. Mex. -- Carol.                                                                      ,,

                                                                                                                   York.

                                                                                                       ,, falcata, Cuv. Carib. s.--Mex.
                       ON NORTH AMKRICAN ZOOLOGY.                                                                                                                                                     207

Seterinus alepidotus,  MCaosvsa. chB.ra?z.S--mMitahs.s.                                                                                                         Rhombus longipinnis, Cov. Carol. --N.
Temnodon saltator*,
                                                                                                                                                                       York.
          --Eur.                                                                                                                                                ,, cryptosus, Cov. N. York.
Gorypliscna Sueurii, Cov. Penns.
Pteraclis carolinus, Cur. Carol.                                                                                                                                Zeutfaber, Massach. ? Smith.      --
                                                                                                                                                                Lampris auttatus*, Retz. Greenl.      Mat*.?

                       Fam. AcANTHUROinEiE.

Acanthurus phlebotomus, Cuv. Carib. t.                                                                                                                          Acanthurus ctsruleus,  Cat. 2, 10, 1. Ba
               N. York.                                                                                                                                             hamas.

                                Fam. AtherinjdEjE.

Atherina Carolina, Cov. Carol.                                                                                                                                  Atherina vomerina, Cov. Mex.
     ,, Boscii, Cov. Do.                                                                                                                                            ,, mordax, Mitch. JV. York.
     ,, maenidia, L. A''. York.                                                                                                                                      ,, viridescens, Id. Do.
     ,, Humboldtiana, Cov. Mex.

                                Fam. Mcgiloide^e
                                                                                                                                                                Mugil petrosus, C. & V. Braz. -- G. of
Mugil    Plumieri, C. & V. Braz. New
     ,,        York.                                                                                                                                                             Mex. N. York.

          albula, L. A". York. Mitch. Mass.                                                                                                                     Mugil lineatus, Mitch. N. York.
              Smith.                                                                                                                                                 ,, ? Benn. Sim Bias.

                                Fam. GoBioiDE^E.

Blennius geminatus, Wood. Ac. Sc. Ph.                                                                                                                           Gunnellus groenlandicus, C. & V. Greenl.

         ICarol.                                                                                                                                                Zoarces labrosus, C. & V. N. York. Mitch.
                                                                                                                                                                     ,, fimliriatns, C. & V. Do. Id.
    ,, punctatus, Wood, c. Carol.                                                                                                                                    ,, Gronovii, C. & V. N. Am.
Pholis carolinus, C. & V. Carol.
Chasmodes Bosquianus, C. & V. N. York.                                                                                                                          Anar,,hichpaoslalruisp*u,s*R, iLc.h.GrPeoelnalr--seEatu. r.
                                                                                                                                                                Gobius Boscii, Lac. Carol N. York.
              Mitch.
     ,, quadrifasciatus, Viooo.Ac.Sc.Ph.                                                                                                                                     Mitch.
                                                                                                                                                                Philyprinus dormitator, C. & V. W.Ind. --
                  Baltimore.
     ,, novcmlineatus, Wood. /. c. Carol                                                                                                                                          Mex.
Clinus ? hentz, Lk Sobob. Carol.                                                                                                                                Chirus monopterygius, Cov. Mem. Pet.

Gun,,,,,,n,,elluspmFaaunuvbngMcurcurilticoigtalilnaciat,aurhritisssu.C,*,s.,C, &.CC&C..V.V&&..&VNGVV.er..weGKefNr.ane--.mel--nYtGs/o.FcrrahkeEb..eur----nr.l..                    2, 23, 1. Unalasch.
              N.W.Am.                                                                                                                                                ,, decagrammus, Cov. I. c. 2, 22, 2.

     ,, dohchogaster, C. & V. Aleut.Isl                                                                                                                                           C. St. Elias.

                                                                                                                                                                      ,, octogrammus, Cov. /. c. 2, 23, 2.
                                                                                                                                                                               Aleut. Is.

                                                                                                                                                                     ,, superciliosus, Cov. /. c. 2, 23, 3.
                                                                                                                                                                                  Unalasch.

                                Fam. Batrachoideje.
Lophius americanus, C. & V. Penns. --
                                                                                                                                                                Malthsea notata, C. & V. N.York.
              A7! York. Mitch.                                                                                                                                  Batrachua tau, C. & V. G. of Mex. N.
Chironectes bcvigatus, C. &V.     Carol -- N.                                                                                                                          York.
                                                                                                                                                                    Gronovii, C. & V. C. of America.
Maltha?a    York. Mitch.          Carib. t. --                                                                                                                  ,,
          vespertilio, C. & V.                                                                                                                                  ,,  grunniens, Schospf. A''. York.

            Newf.
,, cubifronst, F.B.A. 96. Newf--

          Aodob.

  It M. Valenciennes considers this                                                                                                                                    identical with one figured by
                                                                                                                                                                       can scarcely conceive that it
Seba, and named by Cuvier mallhcea
                                  species                                                                                                                       to be
                                  natuta                                                                                                                        ; but

could be possible      for any  painter to err so far as to give a tapering snout to a
fish like cubifrons,    which   has nothing like a snout at all, but merely a round tu
bercle, like a grain of shot in the middle of a square forehead.
208                   SIXTH REPORT 183G.

                      Fam. Labroide.e.

Lalinis americanus, Bl. At. York. Mitch.     Crenilabrus burgall, Mitch. 3, 2. N. York.
                                                  ,, merula, Smith. Massaeh,
     Mam. Sm.                                     ,, exoletus, L. ? Greenl ? Fahr.
,, coricus. Smith. Mass.
,, pallidum, Mitch. N. York.                 Xirichthys psittacus, Cuv. Carol
     ,, hint via, L.  Carol Garden.               ,, lineatus, Cuv. Do.
Cheilinus radiatus,   Bl. Schn. 56. U.  St.
                                             Scants Catesbei, Cat. 2, 29. Bahamas.
Lachnolaimus suillus, Cat. 2, 15. Baham.          ,, carvleus. Cat. 2, 13. Do.

                      Fam. FlSTULAROIDEiE.

Plstularia tabacaria, Bl. 387, 1. N. York.   Fistvlaria neo-eboracensis,  Mitch. 3, 8.
                                                              A". York.
                 Mass.
     ,, serrata, Cat. 2, 17. Baham. U. S.

   Percoidece. -- Of 500 species belonging to this family, which
are described in the Histoire ties Poissom, two-thirds inhabit

the Indian Ocean, Red Sea, and warmer latitudes of the
Pacific ; 49 belong to the Mediterranean and eastern side
of the North Atlantic, and 118 have been detected on the Ame
rican side of that sea. The North American fauna embraces
one-ninth of the species composing the family, all, with the
slight exceptions we shall mention, peculiar to that country, not
one of them ranging to Europe. The exceptions are holocentrum
longipinne, which goes as far north on the American side as Ca
rolina, but crosses the Atlantic within the tropics to Ascension
and St. Helena ; and trxchodon Slelleri, which is found both

on the Asiatic and American shores of the sea of Kamtschatka.
The last-named fish is the most northerly of the known Ame
rican percoideee ; and the lucioperca Americana, which inhabits
fresh waters up to the 58th parallel, stands next to it in that
respect. The perca vulgaris being an inhabitant of the Sibe
rian rivers, which fall into the Icy sea, is one of the most northerly
of the family, though the very nearly allied American species
have not hitherto been detected in a higher latitude than the

45th. With respect to the distribution of generic forms,
Europe nourishes nine, which are not known to exist in North
America, viz. lates, apogon, pomatomus, aspro, acerina, poly-
prion, trachinus, sphyreena, and paralepis ; and North America

ten, which are not found in Europe, viz. huro, ceiitropristes,
grystes, centrarchus, pomotis, bryltus, aphrodederus, trichodon,

holocentrum, and poly nemus, besides the doubtful genera propo
sed by M.Rafinesque : only five are common to the two faunae, viz.
perca, labrax, lucioperca, serranus and uranoscopus. Grystes,
containing only two described species, forms another link con
necting the American and Australian faunae ; one of the species
               ON NORTH AMERICAN ZOOLOGY.                                                    209

inhabiting the. rivers of Carolina, and the other those of New
South Wales. There is a greater variety of forms, as well as a
greater number of species of fresh water percoideae in North
America than in any other quarter of the globe ; indeed no other
quaCrottetor idpeoass:.es--seTs hsiuschbeainngexatenmtoroef
                                                             fresh waters.    than           the
                                                             northern family
preceding one, we find, as in the higher orders of animals, a
gOrledatWerorpldro; p--ortthieoncoonfdiittsiogneonfertihce          common to the New        and
                                                            forms    as well as of the land  and
                                                            waters

atmosphere of the arctic regions of the two hemispheres is
more alike than in the more temperate parallels. Prionotus and
hemitriptems are the only two cottoid genera which frequent
the Atlantic coasts of America, and do not also occur in Europe.
On the north-west coast, however, there are three genera which
are unknown in the European seas, viz. hemilejyidotus, blepsias,
and temnistia. The Mediterranean produces peristedion and
hoploatethus, of which no species has been detected on the
American coast. Five genera are common to both sides of the
North Atlantic, as are also several species, viz. trigla pini, dac-
tylopterus volitans, aspidop horns europcens, scorpcena porcus,
and sebastes ?iorvegicus, all marine fish ; there are moreover some
fresh water cotti and gasterostei in America, which are with
great difficulty distinguishable from their European representa
tives. The family contains in all about 1/0 species, of which
one-fifth are North American, and between one-fifth and one-

sixStchiceEnuoridoepae;a.n--. Thefish of this family, more closely related to the
percoideeeby external form than the preceding, are also intimately
connected with them by internal structure. The sciccnoidece are
more American than either of the preceding families, one-third of
the genera being proper to the Atlantic coast of that continent,
and several of the remaining genera being represented there by
one or more species. There are also four or five times as many spe
cies in the North American seas as in Europe; while the intertro
pical seas nourish four-fifths of the whole family. None are com
mon to both sides of the Atlantic. Several of the American sciee-
noidece make a remarkable grunting noise in the water, which is
thought by Cuvier to be connected with the cavernous recesses in
the skulls offish of this family. The noise made by several of the
cottoideee when handled is evidently produced by the sudden
escape of a quantity of air from their distended branchial mem
branes. The total number of ascertained species of the family
is about 260.

Sparoidece.--This  family" ,  of which                              150  species are  known,
vol. v.-- 1836.
                                p
210 SIXTH REPORT -- 1836.

has few representatives in North America, their number not
exceeding one-thirtieth of the whole, while the European seas
nourish nearly one- fifth; the majority of the species, as in
most other acanthopterygian families, belong to the Indian and

South Seas.      --  Of  this  very  Bmall family,                      comprising  only 42
    Meenoideee.

species, about one half belong to the Indian and Polynesian
seas, one fourth frequent the seas of Europe, and only one
species, gerres aprion, has been detected on the shores of Caro
linaC,hetoetowdhoincthoiditccrean. g--esThfirsomfambeiltyw,eennamtehde
                                                                        tropics.
                                                                        also suuammipennee,
contains about 150 species, of which the greater part are inha
bitants of the Indian and Polynesian seas. One species only
(bratna Rati) frequents the European coasts, while four arc
North American, and one seventh of the whole exist on the
Atlantic coasts of North and South America. The pempheris
mexicamis is found at Acapulco ; the remaining species of that
genus inhabit the tropical, Pacific, and Indian oceans.
The next family in Cuvier's arrangement is that of the ana-
basideee or polyacanthoidece, containing only 40 species, all of
which belong to Southern Asia, except a spirobranchus, which
inhabits the rivers of the Cape of Good Hope.
   The preceding acanthopterygian families, with the addition of
the Jistularoidece, hereafter mentioned, and the platessoidece,
anged by Cuvier with the malacopterygii, constitute Agassiz's
order Ctenoidbi, so named from the pectinated laminae of their
scales. About 1400 recent ctenoideans have been described.
   Scomberoidece. --This family, included by Agassiz in his or

der Cycloidei, is, next to the percoidece, the most numerous
of Cuvier's acanthopterygii, the described species amounting
to more than 320. The scomberoidece, more than any other
group of fish of equal magnitude, affect the surface of the ocean
especially in the warm latitudes, and a considerable number of
the species roam from one side of the Atlantic to the other,
among which are the scomber grex, pelamys sarda, trichiurus
lepturus, elecate atlantica, lichia glauca, caranx carangus,
and nomeits Mauritii. Of sixteen genera, actually ascertained
to be North American, only seven enter the European fauna,
viz., scomber, pelamys, nuncrates, caranx, seriola, temnodon,
and coryphcena; but five of the remainder occur also on the
African shores of the Atlantic, viz., cybium, trichiurus, elecate,
tracftinotus, temnodon, and vomer, leaving only two of the

North American genera peculiar to the western side of the At
lantic, viz., argyryosits and rhombus. The forms peculiar to
ON NORTH AMKRICAN ZOOLOGY.                                                   211

Europe are, lepidopus, astrodermus, luvarus, seserinus, and
perhaps lampris ; while its seas nourish also thynnus, aiucis,
.rip/das, tetrapturus, lichia, mastacemblus, scyris, gallichthys,

lampugus, centrolaphus, stromateus, and zeus, common to other
seas, and some of these to tropical America. Two or three
of these are enumerated by Dr. Smith in his list of Massa

chusetts fish ; but as he has not given any details by which
we can judge of the correctness of his nomenclature, they are
put in italics in the foregoing table. Scomber grex and tem-
nodon sallator have a most extensive range from the Cape of
Good Hope across the Atlantic to the coasts of the United
States. The latter is also known eastward to Madagascar and
along the whole western coast of Africa to the Mediterranean
and Egypt, while the former is scarcely distinguishable from
the Mediterranean scomber pneumatophor us. There are several
of the scomberoidece which, inhabiting only the middle longi
tudes of the Atlantic, belong as much to the New as to the Old
World : they pursue the flying-fish over the Atlantic wastes
as the herds of wolves do the                              of America.
                                  bison on the prairies     species are
   Acanthuroidece. -- Of this     family about ninety

known, inhabiting the warmer districts of the ocean and feed
ing on fuci, being furnished with cutting-teeth instead of pre
hensile ones, like those of most other fish. Except three species
which frequent the Caribbean Sea, the family belongs to the
Polynesian and Indian oceans and the Red Sea ; one species
follows the gulf-stream to New York, another reaches the Ba
hamas : none visit Europe.
   Athcrina. --This isolated genus contains about thirty species,
of which six or seven are European, and five, exclusive of two
or three doubtful ones, have been described as North American,
                                                   of the  Atlantic.
butMnuognileoidareecec.o--mmOofn   to both sides  forms    which belong  to  this
                                  four generic
family, three are peculiar to the intertropical seas, while the
typical one, mugil, is known in all the temperate as well as in
the warmer districts of the ocean. None of the species cross
the Atlantic, but some of them have a considerable range coast-
ways ; thus, two of the American mullets extend from the Bra
zils to New York, while the mugil capita ranges from Norway
to the Mediterranean. The genus contains fifty-three described

species, the whole family about sixty ; several are confined to
fresh waters.
   Gobioides. -- This family contains nearly 300 species, of
which about one half are inhabitants of the Indian and Poly
nesian seas ; sixty exist in the European waters, and eighteen
or nineteen on the American side of the northern Atlantic,
                                  p2
212 SIXTH REPORT -- 1836.

there being only forty-two known on the whole eastern coast of
both North and South America. The North American and

European genera are mostly the 3ame ; yet among the former
we have chasmodes and philyprinus which range from within
the tropics to the United States, but do not visit Europe;
while tripterygion and callionymus of the Mediterranean and
British Channel are unknown in the American seas. The only
species perhaps common to both countries are those which fre
quent the Greenland seas. Dr. Smith, indeed, enumerates
anarrhichas lupus among the fish of Massachusetts, but his
determination of the species must be considered as doubtful
until we have some evidence of a proper comparison having
been instituted between American and European examples.
The gunnellus vulgaris is also described as a Labrador fish in
the Fauna Boreali-Americana, on the authority of a single
injured specimen which differed slightly from the English fish.
Zoarces polaris, according to Capt. James Ross, is the most
northern known fish, having been taken on the ice to the north
of Spitzbergen, or within nine degrees of the pole ; it ranges
weBstawtraarcdhotiodeRcBe.ge--ntT'sheInloent.ly species of this family which exists
in Europe is the well known lophius piscatorius, while the
North American seas contain four out of five of the generic
forms and seven or more species, there being about fifty in the
family. Sixteen belong to the Caribbean Sea and South Ame
rican Atlantic, and the comparatively small proportion of fifteen
havLeabbreoeidnedceet.e--cteAds  in the Indian and
                                 the publication of  Polynesian seas.  Poissons,
                                                     the Histoire des
the only trustworthy guide for general ichthyology, has ad
vanced no further than the batrachoidete, our observations on

the succeeding families must necessarily be imperfect, and we
shall therefore make them as brief as possible ; indeed, our
American lists cannot be otherwise than very defective, being
founded on Cuvier's notes in the R&gne Animal, relating almost
solely to figured species. We have ventured to enumerate only
thirteen labroidea as inhabitants of the North American seas,
and the nomenclature of fully one half of these is doubtful.
The European seas nourish about fifty species belonging to the

genera labrus, julis, crenilabrus, coricus, xirichthys, chromis,
and scarus.
   Fistularoidece.  --The        members  of  this small  family are mostly

deni/ens of the warmer seas. One species only is well known
as European, viz., the centriscus scolopax, which is common
enough in the Mediterranean, but rare in the Atlantic, though
it has been found as far north as Mount's Bay. This family
           ON NORTH AMERICAN ZOOLOGY.                                                        213

closes the list of Cuvier's acanthopterygian fishes. The total
number of described species belonging to the order amounts
nearly to 2400.

       Ord. MALACOPTERYGII ABDOMINALES.

                                         Fam. CYPR1NOIDE.E.

Barbus, spec, nonce, Cuv. Reg. An.                        Cycleptesnigrescens, Raf. OAio.
Abramis balteatus, F.B.A. 3. 301. Columb.                 Leuc,,iscuschgryrasocilleisu,cuFs.,B.AM. it7c8h. .Sa4s0k°at.NR. --.

       R.
     ,, SmithU, Id. 3. 1 10. St. Lawrence.
     ,, chrysopterus, Smith, Massach.                               46° N.
Labeo cyprinus, Le Sukur, Ac. Sc. Ph.                          ,, caurinus, F.S.^. 3. 304. Columb.
,, maxilingua, Id. I. c. Maryland.                             ,, oregonensis, Id. 3. 305. do.
,,  ?  manancurloapttuesr,uslo, .RLacf.   Ac. Sc. Ph. 1.       ,, species novae, Ctiv. Reg. An.
,,  ?  nigrescent, Id. /. c              17. 4. N. York.      ,, a/rononw, Mitch. N. York. Mass.
,,  ?                                    L. Champl.       SemotUus dorsalis, Raf. Ohio.
                                                          ,, cephahis, Id. do.
Catastomus gibbosus, Le Sueur, /. c.                      ,, diplemia, Id. do.
       Connect. R.                                             ,, notatus, Id. do.
,, tuberculatus, Id. /. c. Peuns.                         Minnilus dinemus, Id. do.
,, macrolepidotus, Id. Delaware R.                             ,, notatus, Id. do.
,, aurcolus, Id. L. Erie.                                      ,, microstomus, Id. do.
,, communis, Id. Delaware R.                              Luxihts erythrogaster, Id. do.
,, longirostris, Id. Vermont.                                  ,, chrysocephalus, Id. do.
,, nigricans, Id. L. Erie.                                     ,, Kentuckiensis, Id. do.
,, maculosus, Id. Maryland.                                    ,, interrupt tin, Id. do.
,, elongatus, Id. Ohio.                                   Rutilus plargyrus, Id. do.
,, v it nit us, Id. Perms.                                ,, compressus, Id. do.
,, Dusquesnii, Id. Ohio.                                  ,, amblops. Id. do.
,, Bostoniensis, Id. N. Engl.                             ,, melanurus, Id. do.
,, oblongus, Id. ff. York.                                ,, anomalus, Id. do.
,, sucetta, Id. S. Carol.                                 ,, ruder, Id. do.
,, teres, Lack p. v. 15. 2. N. York.                      Pimephales promelas, Id. do.
,, Hudsonius, Forst. PA. Tr. 63. 6.                                    macropterum. Id. do.
                                                          Hypentelium  diaphana, Le Sukur,   j/c.  Sc.
          F.B.A 46° N.-- 68° N.                           Hydrargyra
,, Forsterianus, F.B.A. Back's Voy.
         fig. 48° N.-- 68° N.                                              PA. Saratoga lake.
,, reticulatus, Id. Back's Voy. fig.                           ,, multi/asciata, Id. i. c. do.
          40° N.-- 50° N.                                      ,, ornata, Id. i. c. Delaware R.
                                                               ,, nigrqfasciata, Id. /. e. Rhode Is. ·
,, anisurus, Raf. Ohio.                                   Pcecilia multilineata, Le Sueur, /. c.
,, anisopterus, Id. do.                                             ftorida.
,, bubalus, Id. do.                                                  Schneideri, Valenc. 04*. Zool.
,, niger, Id. ifo.                                              ,,  ellipse-idea, Le Sukur, /. c. Ar
,, carpio, Id. do.                                        Lebias
,, veltfer. Id. rfo.
,, xanthopus. Id. do.                                                      kansas R.
,, melanops, Id. <fo.
,, melanotus, Id. rfo.                                    Fundulus fasciatus, Valenc. I. c. N. York.
,, fasciolaris. Id. do.                                        ,, ccenicolns, Id. /. c. N. York.
,, ery thrums. Id. do.                                    Molinesia Iatipinna, Le Sueur, I. e. N.
,, flexuosus. Id. <fo.
,, megastomm. Id. do.                                                       Orleans.

                                                          Cvprinodon flavulus, Valenc. I. c. A".

                                                                      York.

                                                          ,, ovinus, Mitch. Ar. York.
214 SIXTH REPORT 1836.

                                       Fam. EsocidjE.

Esox lueius* L. 38° N.-- 68° N. East of            Scomberesox scntellatus, Le Sueur, New-

           Rocky M. only.                                          fonndland.
,, estor, Le Sueur, Ac. Sc. Ph. L.                 Sarchirut vittatut, Raf. Ohio.
                                                   ,, aryenteus, Id. do.
           Erie Sf Huron.                   R.     Exoc,,cetufsuerNcxailtiueYsn.,sS,fMBPilta.cd3h/9..7.                   --
        reticulatus, Id. L c. Connect.                                                                     Trap.   tea*.  --
        phaleratus, Id. /. c. Florida.                                                                            Mex.
        niger, Id. A c. L. Saratoga,                                                                     G. of
        villains, Raf. Ohio,                                   N. York.
                                                               coniatus, Id.
Belone  --sa?lmSonmeuist,h,  Id. do.               ,,          mesogastcr,            N.     Yodrok..--Massach.
                             Massach.              ,,          Smith.                 Id.
Scomberesox equirostris, Le Svzvtt,Mas-
                                                   ,, volitans, Hl. 398. 'Prop, teas, AIL
        sach.                                               If Pad/.-- 30" N.

                                       Fam. Siluroidk^e.

Bagni9 marinus, Much. N. York.              --     Pimelodus csrulescens, Raf. Ohio.
              ? hornpout. Smith, Afassach.         ,, paUidus, Id. do.
,,      -- ? Benn. Mazatl. Pactf.               ?  ,, argyrus, Id. do.
,,                                                 ,, viscotus, Id. do.
Pimelodus catus, Cat. 2, 23. U. S.
,, albidus, Le Sueur, Mem. Mus.                    ,, nebulosus, Id. do.
          U.S.                                     ,, eupreus, Id. do.
,, neliulosus, Id. /. c. do.                       ,, hmdus, Id. do.
,, ii'iieus, Id. /. c. do.                         ,, melas, Id. do.
,, cauda furcata, Id. I. c. do.                    ,, .ranthocephalut. Id. do.
,, nigricans, Id. L. Erie.                              ,, limosut, Id. do.
,, natalis, Id. V. S.                              Pylodiclis limosus, Id. do.
,, insigne, Id. U. S.                              Nolurus Jlavus, Id. do.
,, ctttnasut, F.B.A. $,122. L. Huron.              DCoarUaicshtchoyssta--lus,?  Cat.
,, borealit. Id. Satkatch. R.                                                   Bl.    Sup.   9. U.           S.
,, macula/tit, Raf. Ohio.                                                             397,   1. do.

                                                   Aspredo Uevis, Seba, 29, 9, 10. do.

                             Fam. SalmonoidKvE.

Salino salar*, F.B.A. Connect. R. to Labr.         Salmo nigrescent, Raf. Ohio.
        Scoideri, Id. 93. New Caled.
,,      Rossii, Id. 80, 85, 2. Arc/, sea.          Stenodus Mackcnzii, F.B.A. 84, 94, 1.
,,                                                                Back's voy. Mack. R.
,, Hearnii, In. do.                                Osmervs ejjprlanus*, Arted. Massach. -- -
,, alipes, Id. 81, 86, 1. do.                                    St. Laicr.
,, nitidus, Id. 82, 1. 86, 2. 52° N.--             M allot us  villosus, Cu v.        Arct.              S. --New/,       if

           72° N.                                              Kamtsch.

,, Hoodii, Id. 82, 2. 83, 2. 87, I.                     ,, pacificus, F.B.A. Cohtmb. R.                           N.      --
          52° N.-- 72° N.                          Coregonus albus, Id. 89, 2. 94, 2. 44°
        fontinalis, Id. 82, 1. 87, 2. N.
,,          York. -- L. Huron.                                 72° N.
                                                   ,, tullibee, Id. 50° N.-- 54° N.
,, namarcush, Id. 79, 85, 1. 44°                   ,, Artedi, Le Sueur, Ac. Sc. Ph.

        N.-- 68° N.                                            L. Erie.
,, quinnat. Id. Colvmb. R.                             lucidus, F.B.A. 90, 1. Gr. Bear L.
,, Gairdneri, Id. do.                              ,,  harcngns, Id.                  90Id, .28. 9L, .1H.6u0ro°nN..--
,, pauddens, Id. do.                               ,,  quadrilateralis,
,, tsuppitch, Id. do.
,, Clarkii, Id. do.                                ,,          72° N.

,, carpio, Fa BR. Greenl.                          ,, labradoricus, Id. G. of St. Law
                                                               rence.
,, alpinntt. Id. do.                               Thymallus   signifer,              F.B.A.             88.  62° N. --

,, ttagnali . Id. do.                                          68° N.
                                                   ,, thymatloides, Id. lot. 64*° N.
,, rivalis, 1n. do.                                Saurvx mezicanus, Cvv. L. of Mex.
,, alleghaninmis, Raf. Ohio.
ON NORTH AMERICAN ZOOLOGY.                                                                       215

Fain. Clui'jsoide.e.

Clupea harengus*, Auct. 40° N.-- 75° N.       Chatoessus oglina, Lf. Sueur, .7c. &. PA.
              Pad/. All. Or Arct. Seat.
                                                         Rhode Is.
      ,, humeraUs, Cuv. G. o/Mex.             ,, Cepedianus, Id. /. c. Pennsylv.
     ,, fasciata, Le Sueur, Ac. Sc. Ph.       ,, thrissa, Cuv. G. of Mae.
                                                    ,, notata,     Id. do.
                   Pemu.                      EngrauUs sadina,       Mitch.      A'.  lo/vfr.
     ,, elongata, Id. Marble head.            ,, encrasichohis*, Ul. 302. Greenl.
     ,, Aafee, Mitch. N. York.                           Fabr.
     ,, pusilla, Id. <2o.
     ,, parvula, Id. r/o.                           ,,    edentulus, Cuv.    O. of    Mac.
     ,, mdigena, Id. (in.                     EIops     saurus, Lacep. v.
     ,, vitlata, Id. do.                                                      398.    IT. /nrf. --
     ,, cterulea. Id. do.                                 Carol
Alosa vernalis, Mitch.v. 9. JV. Yo»r, Aftws.  Butirinus            Ca/^".  Benn.          --   £/.  5.
     ,, aestivalis, Id. A", lor*.                        vulpes,           1, 2. Uraz.
     ,, menhaden, Id. v. 7. <fo. Massach.                          Cat.
     ,, matowaka, Id. v. 8. do.               Hiodon tergisus, Le Sueur, J. c. £. £rte.
     ,, alosa*, Id. iV. York. Mass.                      Ohio.
     ,, mediocfis, Id. rfo.
     ,, minima, Smith, Massach.               ,, clodalis, Id. OAio.
Pomohbus chrysochhris, Raf. OAio.             ,, chrysopsis, F.B.A. 9 J, 3. 52° N.
Dorosoma notata, Raf. OAio.                              --54° N.
Notemigonus aura tux. Id. do.                      ,, vernalis, Raf. do.
                                                   ,, heterurus, Id. do.
                                                   ,, alosoides, Id. rfo.
                                              Amia calra, Bl. Schn. 80. Carol.
                                              ,, oceUicauda, F.B.A. L. Huron.

Fam. SAURoiDEiE. (Agassiz.)

Lepisosteus osseus, L. U. S.                  i Lepisosteus alius. Raf. OAio.
     ,, huronensis, F.B.A. L. Huron.          ,, platoatomus, Id. so.
     ,, gracilis, Abash. Zool. Pr.                                 Id. do.
    ,, longiroslris, Raf. Ohio.               ,,        ferox.       Lacep.  5,  6,   2.  OAio.
     ,, ojeyurus. Id. do.                     ,,
                                                         spatula,

                                              | Litholepis adamantinus, ? Raf. OAio.

    The second division of the fish, according to Cuvier's arrange

ment, or the Malacopterygii, includes the bulk of Agassiz's
Cycloidei, together with some families belonging to the other

orders of the latter naturalist, as the siluroidei and sauroidei
which rank with his Ganoidei, and the platessoidece or pleuro-
nectoidea: which he places among his Ctenoide^e : on the
other hand, we have already noticed that Agassiz's Ctenoide^e
include the scomber oidece, atherinte, mugiloideee , and labroidece,

conTshideereMdalbaycoCpuvteierryagsiiAcaanbtdhoomptienraygleiasnse.mbrace the greater

part of the fresh water fish, and though few species are common
to Europe and North America, there is much similarity between
the generic forms existing in the waters of the two continents.
As the lakes and rivers, however, occupy more space in propor
tion to the land in North America than in any other quarter of
the world, so the number and variety of fresh water fish is
greater than in Europe, or any other extra-tropical country.
216 SIXTH REPORT-- 1836.

   Cyprinoideee. -- Europe nourishes 32 species of this family : it
possesses, in common with America, the forms of barbus, abra-
mis, and leuciscus ; labeo, existing in the Nile, is also American ;
cyprinus, gobio, tinea, and cobitis, which are European, have
not yet been proved to exist on the other side of the Atlantic :
while North America possesses catastomus,hydrargyra,pwcilia,
lebias, fundulus, molinesia and cyprinodon, unknown to Euro
pean waters, besides the uncertain genera proposed by M. Ra-

nnesque.       -- The  fresh  waters            of America  contain  a greater
    Esocidce.

number of species of this family than those of Europe, the only
one in fact in the latter country being the common pike or esox
lucius, which exists also abundantly in North America, though
it is confined to the eastern side of the Rocky Mountains. North
Africa is more productive, the Nile producing many mormyri,
and the Mediterranean yielding a single species each of alocepha-
lus, microstoma, stomias, and chauliodus, forms which have not
been detected on the western side of the Atlantic. Belone,

scomberesox and exocastus, are common to both sides of that

sea, and it is highly probable that some of the hemiramphi of the
Caribbean sea may follow the gulf stream further north : one
wasSiltuarkoeindetcheis.--yeTahrouonghthae  coast of Cornwall*.
                                            considerable number    of fish  of  this
family have been already discovered in North America only one
is known in Europe, viz., the silurus glanis, which inhabits the
rivers of Europe as far north as Sweden and Norway, as well as
those of Asia and North Africa. The pimelodus borealis, the
most northerly of the family in America, goes no higher than the
54th parallel. The waters of Egypt nourish many species of
silurus, schilbus, bagrus, pimelodus, synodontis, clarias, and

malapterurus.      -- Upwards               of  thirty  described  species of this
    Salmonoideee.

family belong to Europe, which possesses all the generic forms
mentioned in our North American list, with the exception of
stenodusf, and the addition of argentina and scopelus, found in
the Mediterranean. Egypt produces two or three other forms,
one of them, myletes, being common also to tropical America.
Some of the salmonoidea: are the most northerly of fresh water
fish. Several of the trouts of North-west America are probably
identical with Kamtschatka species, to which other names had
been previously given. This point, with many others, will

   * Yarkei.l, Br. Fishes, p. 397.f-

        This genus or sub-genus, which differs from the other salmones in the teeth,
was first named in the Appendix to Captain Back's narrative of his journey to
 he mouth of the Thlcweechoh.
                  ON NORTH AMERICAN ZOOLOGY.                            217

doubtless be cleared up in the ensuing volumes of the Histoire
ties Poissoiis. The identity of the salmo salar itself on both
sides of the Atlantic has not been satisfactorily settled, and some
interesting facts in the history of the fish as an inhabitant of Lake
Ontario require to be ascertained ; for instance, whether it de
scends to the sea after spawning, or whether, like the salmon
of Lakes Wenern and Wettern, in Sweden, it passes its whole
life in fresh waterf, recruiting in the depths of the lake, and
spawning in the feeding streams. The truth of the report, that
none of the salmon which ascend the Columbia, or the rivers of
New Caledonia,
into : -- the same  return again to the sea,     deserves to be inquired
                    thing has been asserted      of the salmon of North

ern Asia.         --This        family is also more numerous            in North
    ClupeoidecB.
America than in Europe, the latter country yielding only nine

or ten species belonging to the genera clupea, alosa, and en-
graulis. Hiodon, a genus peculiar to America, has much affinity
to Stahuerosiadlemcoen. o--ideTchei.s family contains only two existing genera,
lepisosteus, peculiar to America, and polypterus to Africa J.

    Ord. MALACOPTERYGII SUB-BRACHIALES.

                                Fam. Gadoideve.

Gadus morrhua*, L. Polar i. Netcf. N.            Merlangui polarit, Sabine, Parry's App-
       York. S. of Kamtsch.                      Polar t. Spitz.
    callarias*, L. N. York,          Mitch.      ,, vulgaris*. Smith, Massach.
,,  Greenl. Fabr.                                ,, albidus, Mitch. N. York.

,, rupestris. Smith, N. York. Mas                ,, purpureas, Id. do.
                                                     ,, pottachhts*,   Smith, Massach.
    sach.                                        Merluccius asellus*,  Bl. 164. N. York. --
,, arenosus, Id. do. do.
    tomcodus, M itch. do. do. Smith.                            Neuf.
,,  aglefinus, Penn. do. Mitch.                  Lota maculosa, Le Sueur, Ac. Sc. Ph.
,,  fasciatus, Id. do. Mitch. Mas
,,  blesnancohid. esS,h.Mitch, do.                              L. Erie.-- 68° N.
    barbatus*, Bl. 166. Massach. Sm.                  ,, compressa, Id. /. c. Conned. R.
,,                                               Br08mius flavesccns, Id. M. Mus. 5, 16.2.
,,
,, Fabricii, F.B.A. Greenl. Fabr.                     ,, vulgaris*, Penn. Massach. Smith.
,, ogac, Id. Greenl. Fabr.                            ,, tub*, Mem. Stockh. 15,8. Greenl
    luscus*, Penn. & of Kamtsch.                 Phycis chuss, Schoipp. N. York.
,,    Tiles.                                         ,, tenuis, Mitch. N. York.
                                                      ,, punctatus, Id. F.B.A. 3, 253. A'.
,, macrocephalus, Tiles. M. Petr.
    2,16. S.o/Kamts.                                               York, Nova Scotia.
     ,, gracilis, Id. 18.  do.                   Raniceps blennoides, Smith, Massach.
Mcrlangus carbonarius*,         66.  Davis'  S.
                           Bl.                   Macrourus rupestris*, Bl. 26. Greenl
                                                                North s.
    Pacif.

  t Nilsson, Pisces Scand.
   % The Ganoidei of Agassis: are composed of the sauruiiku, lepidoidetc

(fossil), pyenodontes, pleclognathi, lophobranchii, goniodontes, siluroiaea, and
sturionidece.
218 SIXTH REPORT -- 1836.

                       Fain. Pleuronectoide^e.

Platessa plana, Mitch. N. York.              Rbo,,mhusfflaarcgiuasl,ix,CPata. l2l.7.ABwaahlsakmaa. s.PoUla.Srt.s.
    ,, stellata, Pall. Polar t. S. q/                 maximut*, Smith, Mattach.
                                             ,,       aquosut, Mitch. N. York.
                  Kamtsch.                   ,,
     ,, dentata, L. N. York, Schckpf.        Solea vulgaris, Pknk. Mattach. Smith.
     ,, americana, Schckpf. Rhode Is.        Acliirus lineatus, Sloank, 346, Carib. t.
                                                         N. York. Mitch.
    ,, melanogaster, Mitch. N. York.         ,,       plagiuruj, L. Carib.  t. -- Carol.
     ,, oblonga, Id. do.
Ilippoglossus communis*, Bl. 47. N. York.

             Matt. Sm. Pact/. Eschscholtz.

                              Fam. Discoboli.

Cyclopterut lumpus*, Bl. 90. N. York. --     Cyclopterut tpmotut, Fabr. Greenl.
                                                      cvoemnmtriucnoissu*s, ,APratelld.i,5E. uorf.KPaomlatsrcht..
,,      Greenl. Eur.   Mast.  Smith. --           ,,
                                             Liparit
    minutus. Pall.                           ,, gelatinotut, Pall. S. qfKamttch.
    Greenl. Ross.

                       Fam. EcheneidEjE.

licheneis remora*, Bl. 1 72. N. York. Matt.  Echeneit species alia, V. S. Pad/. Bknn.
             Pad/.

    ,, naucrates*, Id. 171. Massach.
             New/. Pad/.

Malacopterygii sub-brachiales. --Most of the fish of this

order feed on or near the bottom, and a very considerable num
ber of the species are common to both sides of the Atlantic, par

ticularly in the higher latitudes, where they abound. It does
not appear that their general diffusion ought to be attributed to
migration from their native haunts, but rather that in this respect
they are analogous to the owls, which, though mostly stationary
birds, yet include a greater proportion of species common to the
Old and New Worlds than even the most migratory families. Se
veral of the scomberoideee which feed on the surface have been

previously noted as traversing many degrees of longitude in the
Atlantic, but the existence of the ground- feeding gadoideae in
very distant localities must be attributed to a different cause, as

it is not probable that any of them wander out of soundings, or
eveGraadpopidreocaec.h--thAebomuitd-twseeanst.y-one species of this family frequent
the European seas, most of which, and all the generic forms, have
been enumerated by authors as existing also on the North Ame
rican coast. More exact comparisons will probably diminish
the number of species supposed to be common to the two coun
tries, but still a sufficient number will remain to justify the pre

ceding remarks.        -- Upwards            of thirty- six  species  of    flat-fish
    Pleuronectoide<v.

belong to Europe, two or three of which, and all the generic
forms, except monochir, occur in the lists of American ichthyo
ON NORTH AMERICAN ZOOLOGY.                    219

logists. Many more will doubtless be detected hereafter on the
coasts of Nova Scotia, Newfoundland, and Labrador.

   Discoboli. -- About eight species of this family, belonging to
the genera lepadogaster, gobiesox, cyclopterus, and liparis have
been described as European. The American discoboli are almost
entEicrehleyneuindkenao.w--nT. he singular fish belonging to this family,
though they swim rapidly for a short time, do not appear ca
pable of long-continued exertion. The necessity for this is indeed
obviated by the adhesive apparatus on the head, by which they

can attach themselves to the larger fishes, and especially to the

sharks. In this way they are carried about, and are always at

hand to feed on any morsels that may be detached when the
monster closes his saw-like teeth on his prey. They also stick
to the bottoms of ships, being attracted by the greasy washings
of the coppers thrown overboard by the cook, and thus they are
often carried beyond the warmer seas in which they are produced.
The two species which are best known have been taken on both
sides of the Atlantic, as well as in the Pacific. They range occa
sionally northwards to England and the banks of Newfoundland.

Ord. MALACOPTERYGII APODES.
          Fam. Anguilliformks.

Mnrcciia rostrata, Li; Sueur, L. Cayuga       Mureena xanthomelas, Rar. Ohio.
                  and Seneka.                      ,, tutea, Id. do.
                                                   ,, helama, Cat. 20. Bahamas.
            bostoniensis, Id. Massac/i.
            serpentina, Id. Long. Is.         Muranophis moringa, Cat. 21. do.
            argentea, Id. Boston Bay.             ,, meleagris, Mitch. U. S.
            macrocephala, Id. Saratoga,
            vulgaris*. Smith, Mass. N. York.  Saccopharynx ampullaceus, Harwood,
                                                             Ph. Tr. Davis" Straits.
                MlT.
           conger*, Mitch. Surinam, do. do.       ,, chordatus, Mitch. 52° N. Int.
            oeeaniea, Id. N. York,            Ammodytes lancea*, Cuv. Greenl. Fabr.
            laticauda, Raf. Ohio,
            aterrima. Id. do.                      ,, tobianus*, Penn. N. York. Neutf.
                                              Ophidium stigma, Benn. hot zebue Sound.

   Anguilliformes.-- From 25 to 30 species belonging to the
single family forming this order have been detected in the Eu
ropean Seas. They are arranged by Cuvier in the genera an-
gttilla, conger, ophisurvs, murcena, spliagebranchus, leptoce-
phaltis, ophidium and ammodytes. The Nile supports another
generic form named gymnarchus. One of the species of sacco
pharynx having been caught in mid-seas belongs as much to
Europe as to America. The members of the family existing in
the American waters are very imperfectly known.
220 SIXTH REPORT -- 1836.

                        Ord. LOPHOBRANCHII.

Syynaihtts typhle, Bl. 91, 1. N. York,                    Sygnathtts acta, Bl. 91, 2. U. S. Penn.
             Mass. Mitch. Sm.
                                                          Ifippocampusbrevirostris' tf. Ybnt.MiTCH.

   Of this order, consisting, like the preceding one, of only one

natural family, there are about 15 European species. The Ame
rican naturalists have mentioned the same generic forms as ex
isting in their seas, but no correct details of the species of the
northern part of the New World have yet been published.

                        Ord. PLECTOGNATHI.

                        Fam. Gymnodontes.

Diodon punctatus, Bl. 125, 126. Bros.--                   Tetraodon Aispidus, Schcepf. N. York.
    N. York. Schcepp.                                     ,, turgidus, Mitch. 6, 5. do. Mas-
,, rivulatus, Cuv. N. York. Mitch.
          6,3.                                                sach.
                                                              laevigatas, Will. I. 2.
    ,, pilosus, Mitch.  6, 4.  N.   York.  --             ,,  curvus, Mitch. N. York.
                                    Bah.                  ,,
Tetraodon geometricus,  Cat.   28.                        ,, mathematicus, Id. do.

    U.S.                                                  ,, lagocephalus, Cat. 28. Virg.
    lineatus, Bl. 141. New York.                          Orthagoriscus mola, Bl. Schn. U. S.
,,     Schojpf.                                           ,, bretis, Mitch. N. York.

                        Fam. ScLERODERMATA.

Ualistcs tomcntosus, L. Seba, 24, 18. V. S.               Batistes aurantiacus, Mitch. 6, 1 New

    ,, vetula, Bl. 150, Cat. 22. Baha                                       York.
                                                               ,, broccus, Id. N. York.
                 mas.-- U.S.
     ,, hispidu9, L. Seba, 24, 2. U. S.                   Ostracion triqueter, Bl. 130. Mass. Sm
     ,, monoceros, Cat. 19. Bah. Mass.                         ,, bieaudalis, Smith. Mass.
                                                              ,, quadricornis, Bl. 134. U. S.
               Smith.
    ,, sufflamcn, Mitch. 6, 2. A". York.

Gymnodontes. --This family of plectognathi belongs chiefly
to the warmer seas, and the species have not yet been satisfac
dtoornilyPedninsacnritmi^ini aaterdr,.,e(stpeermciaeldly    the American ones.   The tetrao
                                                          by Pennant Icevigatus  and lagoce
phalus,) and orthagoriscus mola and oblongus extend north
wards to the English coast. The tetraodon lineatus inhabits
the Nile. This species, and several others which exist on the
eastern side of the Atlantic, occur in the lists of American ich
thyologists ; but in the absence both of good descriptions and
figures there is reason to fear that much error exists in their de
terminations.
   Sclerodermata. --This family also abounds within the Tropics,
haunting coral banks and other rocky places. Many frequent
the shores of the Bahamas, the Florida Keys and the Bermudas,
but the species have not been fully described. The halistes ca-
priscus of the Mediterranean and British Channel is the only
European one.
ON NORTH AMERICAN ZOOLOGY.                221

Ord. CHONDROPTERYGII ELEUTHEROPOMI.

Fam. STURIONIDEiE.

Acipenser transmontanus, F.B.A. 97./I 2.  Acipenser rubicund us, Lb Sueur, /. c. 12.
                Columb. R.                                  Canada lakes.

     ,, rupertianus, F.B.A. 97, 1. Sas-       ,, platyrhynchus, Raf. Ohio.
             katch. R.-- 50° N.-- 55" N.       ,, serotinus, Id. Ohio.
                                               ,, ohiensis. Id. Ohio.
     ,, brevirostris, Le Sueur, Am.            ,, macrostomus, Id. O/iro.
               PhiL Tr. N.S. Delaware R.  Platirostra edentuia, Le Sueur. OAi'o.
                                          Polyodon folium, Lac. 13, Z.Ohio, Mississ.
     ,, maculosus, Id. Ohio.
    ,, oxyrhynchus, Mitch. Dclaw. N.

                   York.

Fam. ClIIM.EROIDE.E.

Chimsera Collaei, Bann. N. Pactf.         Elephant fish, Vancouver. Straits qf Da

                                                         Fuca.

   Sturionuleee. --The western European waters produce only one
species of this family, but several exist abundantly in the Da
nube and other rivers flowing into the Black Sea, and also in the
rivers of Northern Asia. The species are still more numerous and
various in North America and the Mississippi, and its tributaries
nourish some curious forms found nowhere else. We are chiefly
indebted to M. Le Sueur for our knowledge of the sturgeons of
the United States, but a monograph of the family is much
needed, the species both of the Old and New Worlds are as yet
butChbiamdclyerodiedteecrem. i--neOd.nly two species of this family have been figu
red, viz. , the chimcera memstrosa, an inhabitant of the North Atlan
tic, and the callorhynchus antarcticus frequenting the southern
parts of the Atlantic and Pacific. On Captain Beechey's voyage at
least two others were discovered, one on the coast of Chili, and
another, named by Mr. Bennett; chimcera Colliai, in the Bay of
Monterey. Vancouver took one in the Straits of Juan da Fuca,
but he has given no description of it whatever whereby we may
judge of the species.

Ord. CHONDROPTERYGII TREMATOPNEONTES,

(Placoidei, Agassiz.)

        Fam. Selachiide^.                 Carcharias littnralis, Le Sueur, N. York.
                                                               Mass.
Scyllium Edwardsii, Cuv., Edw. 289.
    ,, eanis, Mitch. N. York.                  ,, terraenovte, F. B. A. 3, 289.
     ,, eanicula, Smith. Mats.
     ,, catulus. Id. Mass.                                      New/.
                                               ,, vulgaris, Belon, 60. N. York.
Carcharias oImcutus, Le Sueur, Ac. Sc.
                   Ph. 9.                                  Mass. Penn. Mit. Sh.
                                               ,, rnl/in; S.m. Mass. A". York.
                                              ,, fflancus, Mitch. N. York. Mass.
222 SIXTH REPORT 1836.

Carchariaspmctahts, Mitch. N. York.                      Raia talis, Smith. Massach.
Selache maximus, Id. N. York. Mast.                          ,, clavata, Id. Do.
                                                         Trygon sabinum, Cuv. Florida.     Lk
     ,, Americanos. Id. N. York.
Somniosus brevipinna, Le Sueur, Ac. Sc.                       ,, micrura, Cuv. N. Jersey.
                                                                            Sueur.
                   Ph. Mass.                             Myliobatis Fremenvillii, Le Sueur. Rhode
Zygcna malleus, Valen. Mass. N. York.                                  Id.
                                                                ,, quadriloba, Cuv. N. Jersey. Le
     ,, tiburn, Penn. Sm. Mass.                                 ,, narinaSrui,eurM. arcgr. San Bias.
Squatina Diunerilii, Le Sueur, I. c. 1,
                                                                             Benn.
                     10.

Pristis antiquorum, Cuv. U. S. Penn.

             Fam. Raiideje.                              Cephaloptera mobular, Duh. 17. Dela
                                                                             ware. Le Sueur.
Torpedo   --sp.  -- Benn. Monterey.                             ,, vampinis, Mitch., Penn. Ar.
      ,,         ? Mitch. N. York.                                     York.
                 Le Sukur, N. Jersey.
Raia Sayii,                                                    Fam. Cvclostomata.
,, Desmarestii, Id. Florida.
,, eglanteria, Id. Carolina.                             Petromyzon tridentafus, F. B. A. 3, 293.
,, Chantenay, Id. Pennsyh.                                                    Columb. R.
,,        fo'dcleollnailcaa, .MFiatcBhR..  Greenland.
,,                                         N. York.           ,, fluvialis, Id. & Mitch. JV. York,
,, diaphana, Id. Do.                                                        Mack. R.
,, cen/roura, Id. Do.
,, ionasus, Id. N. York.                                 Petromyzon marinus, Mitch. A^. York,

                                                                              Mass.

                                                             ,, niger, Raf. Ohio.

Selachiidece. -- The European seas nourish about thirty mem
bers of this family, belonging to the genera scyllium, carcharias,
lamna, galeus, viustelus, notidanus, selache, spinax, centrina,
scymnus, zygcena, squatina, and pristis. The sharks of the
American seas have been very imperfectly investigated ; but
since the food provided for them is much the same as on the
east side of the Atlantic, we may expect to find them exhibiting
the same generic forms, and their analogy to the birds and
beaRsatsiidoefcepr.e--y   would            also lead us  to the same conclusion.
                         Cuvier,            in speaking  of the Rays, observes that        no

confidence whatever can be reposed on the synonymy of Artedi,
Linnaeus, and Bloch, since these authors have taken their spe
cific characters chiefly from the number of spines, which vary
with the age and sex of the individual. Hence as the Linnaean
names have been imposed on many of the American rays, our
list is without doubt erroneous as well as defective. About
twenty species have been described as inhabitants of the Euro
pean seas ; they are distributed by Cuvier into the following
genera ; rhinobatis, torpedo, raia, trygon, myliobates, and

cephaloptera.            --                Of  this    family,  which  contains       the most
    Cyclostomata.
simply organised fishes, the European seas nourish only about

seven species belonging to the genera petromyzon, gasterobran-
chus, ammoccetus, and amphioants (Yarrell), but there is reason
to believe that the family is more numerous in the American
waters. The petromyzon tridentattis which inhabits the estu
                 ON NORTH AMERICAN ZOOLOGY.                                 223

ary of the Columbia, resembles p. Planeri in its fringed lips,
andjluviatilis in the strength and form of its teeth, but not in
their arrangement. Lampreys exist in the Mackenzie river
which joins the Arctic sea in the 68th parallel.

ty'TshvealuparebcleedivnoglumreepothrtanoccI ucpoieusld  a greater portion  of the Soci-
                                                         have wished, but
                                                                            I was unable
Ito compress it further without departing entirely from the plan

that have adopted. The list of species, though they ruight
have been omitted had the paper referred only to a country like
Europe, whose natural productions are fully enumerated in ac
cessible treatises, are in fact essential to a view of the present
state of our knowledge of the ferine inhabitants of a continent
which confessedly nourishes many species still undescribed ;
and being moreover the data for our remarks on the geographical
distribution of animal forms, they are necessary to enable the
naturalist to judge of the value of the statements collected from
the various authors referred to, and of the opinions offered upon
them. The comparison between the fauna of North America
and Europe which runs throughout the paper, contributes to
indicate not only the variations of animal life in different loca
lities, and in different circumstances, under the same parallel of

latitude, but also, though more obscurely and merely by analogy,
the tribes of animals of which new species will be most pro
bably hereafter detected in North America.
Zoology, as Cuvier has remarked, is now and must continue
to be for many years, a science of observation only, and not of
calculation ; and no general principles hitherto established will
                 wsaoyrldw. haItt                        aboriginal inhabitants of any
enable us    to                    are the               therefore hopeless to attempt
quarter of  the                    seemed

to elicit the laws of the distribution of animal life from results

yielded by a fauna so very imperfectly investigated as that of
North America ; consequently in the preceding report, the
ranges of the species have been generally stated, as recorded by
observers, and without any reference to the opinions which have
been heretofore advanced by theoretical writers. Buffon ha
zarded the remark that none of the animals of the Old World
exist in the New, except the few which are capable of propagating
in the high northern latitudes. Temminck adduces circum
stances which favour a modern opinion almost directly opposed
to Buffon's ; namely, that all the genera which people the earth

(a small number belonging to the polar regions only excepted)
are to be found in the equatorial zone, or at least within the
tropics ; and that the genera are spread abroad by means of
analogues or species possessing exactly similar generic cha
224 SIXTH REPORT -- 1836.

racters, which range in the same parallels of latitude, through
all the degrees of longitude, and that notwithstanding the bar
rier which a wide ocean may be supposed to interpose*. The
comprehensiveness of this law will evidently be modified by the
number of generic divisions admitted by naturalists, and it will
be scarcely tenable if the geographical groups of species be
raised to generic rank as has been of late frequently done.

   The report includes only the vertkbrata, but the fourth
volume of the Fauna Boreali-Americana, by the Reverend
William Kirby, now in the   press, will                            review of
the present state of North  American     gEivnetoamcoomlopgleyte.    Almost

all that is known of the Crustacea, molluscs, and zoo-
phyta of that country, is owing to the labours of Messrs. Say
and Le Sueur, whose original papers are contained in the Journal
of the Academy of Sciences of Philadelphia, so often quoted.
Dr. S. G. Morton, in an able synopsis of the organic remains of
the cretaceous group of the United States, lately republished
from Silliman's Journal, gives the following list of recent shells
common to the European and American coasts of the Atlantic.

Purpura lapillus.           Modiola papuana.

Buccinuni undatum.          Mactra deaurata.

Natica carena.              Spirorbis nautuloides.

Fusus islandicus.           Thracia convcxa.

Cyprina islandica.          Solecurtus fragilis.

Saxicava rugosa.            Glycimeris siliqua.
Lucina divaricata.
                            Card"ium     groenlandicum.
Phol"as  crispata.                       islandicum.
         costata.
                            Strigilla carnaria.
Solen cnsis.
                            Tellina punicea.
Mya arenaria.
                            Pecten islandicus.

Mytilus edulis.             Balanus ocularis.
A list of the fresh-water shells of the fur countries occurs
the third volume of the Fauna Boreali-Americana.                   in

                                  EMENDANDA.

   In page 168, line 9, for 85, read 75. The same error occurs in Audubon's Ornitho
logical Biography, vol. i. p. 381.

   Mr. Swainson's 2d vol. of the Natural History of Birds having been published while
this paper was passing through the press, we followed it in making some changes in the
arrangements of the graOalores, in consequence of which the following alterations re
quire to be made in the columns of numbers of the table in page 177. TantaUdtr 5, 1,
1. Ardeida, 14, 14, 4. Scolopacida, 45, 37, 24. JtoUidce, 7, 7, 1. Ckaradriadte, 8,
11,3.

   We have followed the common practice in arranging the phalaropes with the sco-
lopacitlti! ; but they are, asTemminck has remarked, decidedly natatorial in their habits ;
and we may add, resemble the ducks in their under plumage and bills : on the other
hand, the flamingo is, as Dr. Smith has observed, a true wader in its manners, and has
been classed as such by all ornithologists except Mr. Swainson. Vide Swains. Biros,
ii. p. 190.

                                                 · Monogr. &c.
         ·ON THE MATHEMATICAL THEORY OF FLUIDS.        225

SuiBpnpyltehtmeheeUnRnteaivvrey. rsJR.iteyCpohortaf lColinasm,thbePrildMugameth.iaenmaPtriocafelssTohreoorfyAostfroFnluoimdsy.

The object of the first Report which I read before the Associ
ation was to sketch out the processes of calculation, and exhibit
the results obtained in the applications of analysis to fluids which
were supposed either to be incompressible, and therefore of uni
form density ; or compressible in such a manner that the density
is, under all circumstances, the same where the pressure is the

same. Such fluids do not exist in Nature. All liquids are com
pressible in some degree, and the pressure in every aeriform fluid
varies as well with the temperature as with the density; yet these

hypothetical fluids are in a mathematical sense intimately allied
to existing fluids. The residts which calculation gives on the
supposition of incompressibility admit of comparison with facts
observed in the equilibrium and motion of water ; and the laws
of pressure, motion, and propagation of motion, arrived at in the
mathematical treatment of the imaginary fluid, whose pressure is
conceived to depend on the density alone, are first approxima
tions towards a knowledge of what actually takes place in air.
The comparison of the calculated results with fact and experi
ment, in these normal cases, serves to show the degree of influence
to be attributed to the modifications which the fundamental pro
perties of the imaginary fluids must undergo, to make them agree

more nearly with those of real fluids. Of late years mathema
ticians have introduced such modifications into their theories,
by reasoning from certain hypotheses, respecting the interior
constitution of bodies, and the mechanical action of their mole
cules, for the purpose of treating mathematically of matter as it
exists in Nature, and tracing to causes beyond the reach of di
Irect observation and experiment the various sensible phaenomena
which it presents.             endeavoured in a second Report to give
some account of the general principle of such theories, and to
explain how they serve, by a satisfactory comparison of the the
oretical results with experiments, to establish the truth of the
hypotheses on which the mathematical reasoning is based, and
so to make known, respecting the intimate constitution and un
seen conditions of bodies, something which could not be ascer
tained by observation alone ; as, in an instance in some respects
analogous, mathematical calculations applied to electrical phae
                                                       of fluids whose
nomena   va. r--e  considered  to prove the existence
                   1836.                   q
   vol.
22G  SIXTH REPORT 1836.

nature is such that they cannot he shown to exist by the evidence
of the senses alone. The phenomena of capillary attraction ap
pear to have principally led to hypotheses respecting the consti
tution and molecular action of liquids. The first writers on the
subject considered it sufficient to treat the liquid as incompres
sible, and attribute to its molecules, and to those of the contain

ing solids, an attracting force, sensible only at insensible distances
from the attracting centres ; on which supposition the problem
does not materially differ from those that belong to the common
theory of inelastic fluids. Poisson conceived it necessary to
treat the question with more distinct reference to the molecular
constitution of bodies, and to the repulsive, as well as attractive,
forces which keep the molecules separate from each other in
places of equilibrium. The views of this eminent mathematician
respecting the constitution of fluid bodies, particularly as applied
in his New Theory of Capillary Action, formed, together with
Ian exposition of the theories of preceding writers, the main sub
ject of my second Report.  propose, in the present essay, to
speak of some other instances of the application of mathematics,
in explanation of the phaenomena of rest or motion of fluids, and

carefully to distinguish, as heretofore, the calculations derived
from hypotheses merely from those that set out from experi
mental facts. The mechanical theory of the atmosphere, and
of the propagation of sound in as affected by the development

of heat, will principally claim our attention. In conclusion,
t
                                               a it,

                                                                     a
                                                                                         p.

                                                              aI
shall take occasion to add some supplementary remarks on sub
jects contained in the preceding Reports, and to notice any ad
ditions that may have been very recently made to this depart
ment of science.

   Mechanical Theory of the Atmosphere.--The pressure of

perfectly elastic fluid when at rest, and everywhere of the same
temperature, varies in the same proportion as its density. This,
the well-known law of Boyle and Mariotte, was recently proved
to be true, for pressures amounting to twenty- seven times the

mean atmospheric pressure, by committee of the French In
stitute appointed for ascertaining the elastic force of steam, in
some preliminary experiments for executing the purpose of the
commission*. The modification this law must receive to take
in the effects of change of temperature (the fluid still remaining
at rest) was first stated by Dalton as result of experiment, and
confirmed very shortly after by the experiments of Gay-Lussacf-

    · MC'moires de VAcademie des Sciences, torn. x. 207.
       The paper of Dalton was read before the Manchester Philosophical Society

in October, 180], and was published in 1802. Gay-Lussac's experiments ap
peared in the Annates de Cliimie, 1802, torn, xliii. p. 137.
        ON THE MATHEMATICAL THEORY OF FLUIDS.                                                                            227

It was ascertained by the independent labours of these two emi
nent philosophers, that different aeriform bodies, submitted to the
same constant pressure, receive equal increments of volume for
the same increment of temperature · so that if the masses of any
two be of equal size at one temperature, they will be of equal
                                                             to which both
size  at any other temperature, provided the  prIetsswuares  also found by
are   submitted, be the same and constant.

Gay-Lussac, that from the temperature of melting ice to that of
boiling water, a mass of air, the size of which at the former tem

Ifperature is expressed by unity, expands to a size expressed by
1*375.  the augmentation 0*375 be divided into 100 equal
parts, and each of these parts be assumed to measure a degree
of temperature, it will follow, from the theory enunciated above,
that every gas dilates by the fractional part 0*00375 of its size
at the temperature of melting ice for each degree of the centi
grade air thermometer. Thus, v* being the volume when the
temperature is 8° above zero, and v the volume when the

temperature under the same pressure is at zero, the relation be
tween the volume and temperature is expressed algebraically by
the equation,
                   · = v (1 + 0*00375 «).

Also if D*, D be the densities corresponding to
J                                                                                                                    If  we have
                                                                                                                         now the
                     v,
                       a

                                                    it is

                                                                                               ·/,
                                                                                                                   v,
D* = D as the quantity of matter              constant.

pressure on unit of surface be changed, without altering the
temperature, from the constant value has hitherto been sup
posed to have, which we will call «r, to the value p, the density
i.at the same time changing from D' to p, the law of Mariotte gives
±- =    These three equations easily conduct to the following

relation between p, and
        is
                              p,= =*.(!+«J),
                                         is
                          p

                           ;i
wbere a. put for 0*00375. This formula considered to ap
ply to gases, to vapours, and to compounds of both, or either.is

The value of a the same for all, but -^ differs for different fluids.a

If the unit of density for atmospheric air be assumed to be that

jjat particular place on the earth's surface at 0° centigrade, will

plainly be the pressure there at that temperature. MM. Biot

and Arago found the ratio of the specific gravity of mercury to
that of air at the temperature of melting ice, and under the ba

                                               Q2
228 SIXTH RKFOKT 1836.

rometric pressure of Om-76 ( = 29'922 inches) to be 10462. From
which it appears that if G be the measure of gravity at the place
where this experiment was made (the Observatory of Paris), the

value of ~ is O^e x 10462 G, or 7951-12 x G. For any

other place this quantity must be multiplied by the ratio of the
force of gravity at that place to the force represented by G. The
numerical value of G is 9m-80896, equivalent to 32-1824 English
feet. The above coefficient of G is obtained on the supposition

that the air is perfectly void of moisture. It has been ascertained,

by a process which will be touched upon at a subsequent part of
the lleport, that the ratio of the density of air completely satu
rated with vapour, to air perfectly dry under the same pressure,
is 0-99749. On multiplying 7951m-12 by this factor the result
is 797lm'09, which applies to air containing its maximum quan
tity of humidity. The mean of the two values, 7961m-10, may
be supposed to apply to the usual state of the atmosphere. Its
equivalent in English fathoms is 4353*26. A correction should
also be given to the factor 0-00375, on account of the effect of
vapour. When the temperature increases the quantity of vapour
in the atmosphere augments at the same time, and as the density
of vapour under the same pressure is greater than that of air, a
given quantity of humid air will dilate more than an equal quan
tity of dry air : it has been usual in consequence to change the
above factor to 0-004. As the temperature hitherto spoken of
is always that indicated by the air thermometer when a mercu
rial thermometer is employed, a correction may be thought ne
cessary, on account of the different rates of expansion of mercury
and air. The experiments, however, of MM. Petit and Dulong
show that this correction is insensible between 0° and 100° cen
tigrade, and only begins to be of considerable magnitude at a
temperature of 300° centigrade*. Within the same limits the
increase of elastic force was found to be proportional to the in
crease of temperature, the volume being constant f.

    By the means above indicated, one relation between the press
ure, density, and temperature of an aeriform body has been ex
perimentally assigned, and the two constants which the equation
expressive of this relation involves have been determined with
great exactness. But in addition to this equation the mathe
matician requires another for the solution of any question in
which the effect of variation of temperature is to be taken into
account. For instance, if it were proposed to determine the

· Memoir on the Dilatation of Gases. Journal de VEcole Poly technique,
cah. 18. p. 213.  f P- 200 of the same Memoir.
ON THE MATHEMATICAL THEORY OF FLUIDS.                     229

pressure of the atmosphere at any assigned altitude above the
earth's surface, in other words, to solve the problem of the ba
rometric measurement of heights, a second equation, expressing
the relation of the temperature to the density or the pressure,
would be required. For want of such an equation, Laplace as
sumes, in investigating his formula for the determination of
heights by the barometer*, that the temperature is uniform, and
equal to the mean of the observed temperatures at the higher
and lower stations. This supposition, as Mr. Ivory has shown t5
conducts to the same barometric formula as would result from
supposing the decrements of atmospheric temperature to be

Iequal for equal increments of height above the earth's surface.

    The only attempt know of which has been made to collect
the law of variation of temperature at different heights in the
atmosphere from observations, is that by Mr. Atkinson in his
Memoir on Astronomical Refractions contained in the second

volume of the Transactions of the Royal Astronomical Society.

His object is to arrive at the law by a consideration of as many

recorded observations as could be procured of temperatures in
different latitudes and different elevations (principally those of

General Roy J and Baron Humboldt §), by a discussion of which

he comes to the conclusion, that for equal decrements of tem
perature the increments of height are in arithmetic progression.
The following is the table of results given at p. 189 of the Me
moir, from Humboldt's Observations in South America :

    Height.  Depression of Therm.

 3724 Feet       14°-070 Fahr.
                 23°-310
 6740
 9029            30°-070
                 34°715
10790            49°620

15744            57°-380
19286

The same arithmetic progression results from the observations
in Europe as from those in South America, and the general em
pirical formula connecting the height h (expressed in feet) and
the depression n (expressed in degrees of Fahrenheit) below the
temperature  -at the earth's surface, is the following :
                h = -[251-3 + I- (« !)_}-«.

  f* Mecanique Celeste, liv. x. chap. iv. §. 14.       SArcueil, torn. iii. p. 462;

       Philosophical Transactions, 1823, p. 455.

  jt Phil. Trans. 1777, part ii. p. 653.

       Memoir on Isothermal Lines, in the AfSmoires
translated in Edin. Phil. Journ., vols, iii., iv., v.
230 SIXTH REPORT 1836.

If this law, which requires confirmation by observations more
in number, and extended over a greater portion of the earth's
surface, should be finally established, the usual formula for the
barometric determination of heights will require some modifica
tion. The mathematical reasoning in this problem ought also
in strictness to proceed on the supposition that the atmosphere
is in motion, and not, as is always supposed, at rest ; but this
improvement in the theory is not likely to be effected till at the
same time a mathematical theory of the periodic oscillations of
the barometer
                can be given.          of a purely theoretical cha
  It remains   to notice the attempts
racter which have been made to furnish the second equation
above spoken of, and by it to assign a relation between the tem

Ifperature, pressure, and density of the air at different elevations.

    we conceive the atmosphere to be at rest, and every point of
it to be in its mean state with respect to temperature, there will
be a certain temperature corresponding to a certain density ; in
other terms, the density will be a function of the temperature.
Now by experiment it is found that when a given mass of air is
suddenly rarefied by mechanical means, at the first instant, before
it receives any accession of heat from surrounding bodies, its
temperature is lowered, and it is supposed to absorb a quantity
of heat equal to the diminution of temperature. The heat that
has disappeared is conceived to become latent, while the total
quantity of heat, consisting of the latent heat, and that indicated
by the thermometer, remains the same in the given mass, till
the temperature is raised by the position of the mass in the midst
of bodies of a higher temperature. Dr. Dalton conceived the
condition of the air in this experiment at the first moment of ra
refaction to be analogous to that of air of the same state of ra
refaction in the atmosphere, and consequently infers that to the
same quantity of atmospheric air the same quantity of heat is
always attached, a loss of temperature being compensated for by
an increase of latent heat, or, as it is also called, heat of combi
nation, and an increase of temperature being due to a develop
ment of latent heat. Admitting, therefore, that the density of
the atmosphere is a function of the temperature, it will follow
from this hypothesis that it is also a function of the latent heat.
The truth of this theory can be judged of only by its forming a
basis for mathematical calculation, and so allowing us to compare
the consequences that flow from it with experience. Mr. Ivory
has enabled us to judge of it in this manner by a series of valu
able papers on this subject contained in the C6th volume of the
Philosophical Magazine*. Mr. Ivory admits with Dr. Dalton

                pp. 12, 81, 241.
ON THE MATHEMATICAL THEORY OF FLUIDS.                          231

that the density is a function of the heat of combination, with
out allowing that the loss of temperature is exactly equal to the
heat that enters into combination in the latent form. His rea
soning is in fact conducted on the supposition that the loss of
temperature is equal to the heat of combination, diminished by
heat from extraneous bodies. To ascertain the function that
the density is of the latent heat, he avails himself of a well-known

experiment, first made by MM. Clement and Desormes, and re
peated afterwards by MM. Gay-Lussac and Welter, which de
termined the ratio of the specific heat of air submitted to a
constant pressure to its specific heat when retained in a con
stant volume. This ratio Gay-Lussac found to be nearly of con
stant value between the temperatures -- 20° and 40° of the cen
tigrade thermometer, and between the pressures 0m*144 and
lm-46. By assuming it to be constant, Mr. Ivory arrives at the
function he is seeking for, and further, supposing the heat from
extraneous sources to vanish, i. e. by returning to the Daltonian
hypothesis, he is conducted to' a very simple relation between the
pressure and the density expressed algebraically by the equation

p = pm, where p is the pressure relative to a unit of pressure, p

the density relative to a unit of density, and m the ratio just

spoken of. This same equation M. Poisson had previously ob
Itained* by means of the same experimental results, but without

the consideration of latent heat, as shall afterwards have oc
casion to mention. As the effect of heat in determining the at
mospheric density and pressure is taken into account in this

equation, if it be a true equation, it will be that additional one
fwhich is required for the complete solutionof
                                            problems, such as
the barometric measurement of heights.It    is, therefore, im
portant to inquire whether the equation p = expresses the
law of nature. By pursuing the investigation, on the supposition
that the total heat of a mass of air is made up of the latent heat,
the heat of temperature, and extraneous heat, and joining to ex -
pressions previously obtained for p and p, the usual differential
equation dp = -- gpdz relative to the pressure, density, and al
titude (z), Mr. Ivory arrives at an equation (Phil. Mag., vol. lxvi.
p. 242) by which the hypothesis of Dalton may be put to the
test. He finds that there are an unlimited number of supposi
tions all equally leading to an equation of the form p = pm, m
being different for each, and all indicating different atmospheres,
which possess the common property of decreasing            in
ture, at a rate proportional to the increase of altitude.      Itfemmp=era1,
and consequently p =s p, the decrement of temperature is infi-

* Connuissancc des Tent) for 1826, published in 1823.
232 SIXTH REPORT 1836.

nitely slow, or the temperature is uniform. If m = 1*375,
which is the ratio of the specific heats in Gay-Lussac's experi
ment, and consequently the value of m on Dalton's hypothesis,
because the air on this supposition possesses the greatest possible
degree of cold that can be produced by rarefaction, the calcu
lated amount of decrement of temperature is 1° centesimal for
an altitude of 674 fathoms, and the total height of the atmosphere
is 20 milgs. But according to Mr. Atkinson's memoir, 1° is the
real amount of depression in the first 80 fathoms of ascent.
Mr. Ivory adopts 90 fathoms from the temperature observed in

|Gay-Lussac's balloon ascent, and derives for the corresponding
value of m. From all this it appears that the theory we are ex

amining, being pursued by mathematical reasoning to its con
sequences, is shown to be an approximation to fact, but not
accurately true, because it assigns too large a rate of decrement
of temperature to the lower strata of the atmosphere · and, if
Atkinson's formula be correct, it errs also in giving a uniform
instead of a decreasing rate of decrement in ascending to the

higher regions.
   Mr. Ivory, in his celebrated paper* on astronomical refrac
tions, has pursued a different train of reasoning with reference
to this subject. He there sets out with supposing the decre
ments of temperature to be equal for equal increments of height,
and is readily conducted (p. 437) to an equation equiralent to
p = pm. When the value %, derived from Gay-Lussac's ascent,
is substituted for m, this equation answers very well the purpose
of calculating a table   of refractions, and                                 Itwidthoesgrenaott
accuracy for altitudes  very little above the                    gives them
                                                                 horizon.

come within the province of this Report to speak of the problem
of astronomical   orfetfhreacattimono,spehxecreept; inIgshaslol  far as it bears upon
the constitution                                                 therefore only remark

that a comparison of refractions, determined by astronomical
observations with refractions calculated on any theory of the
constitution of the atmosphere, does not serve as a good test of

the truth of the theory. It results from the reasoning in the
Micanique Ctfesfef, that as far as 74° of zenith distance the
calculated amount of refraction agrees very nearly with the ob
                        of any assumed                           omfodreecdreiraescetomf daennnseirtyJ.,
served, independently   the same thing  law
                                        in a
Dr. Brinkley showed
and obtained a formula, the error of which at 80° 45' of zenith

distance does not amount to half a second, whatever be the va
riation of density in the atmosphere. When the comparison is

· Phil. Trans., 1823, p. 409.           f Hv. x. c. i.
X Transactions of the Royal Irish Academy, 1815, vol. xii. p. 77.
     ON THE MATHEMATICAL THEORY OF FLUIDS.                            233

made for altitudes nearer the horizon, the differences between the

calculated and real refractions are of considerable amount, in

cases where the calculations have proceeded on suppositions re
lative to the constitution of the atmosphere very remote from
the truth, and suffice to detect their inaccuracy. But it appears
f,from Mr. Ivory's reasoning, that if p be assumed proportional
to       and the refractions  clboesecatolctuhlaetehdoriazocnco. rdItinwgolyu,ldt,hheoywecovemre,
out  very nearly true quite

be wrong to conclude from this that the equation p -- p^ repre
sents the law of nature, for the whole height of the atmosphere
calculated by this formula is found to be twenty-five miles, which
in all probability is far below the truth*. The fact is, astro
nomical refractions are very little influenced by the higher parts
of the atmosphere, so that supposititious atmospheres agreeing
with the existing atmosphere in the lower strata, and widely dif
fering in the upper, may yet produce the same amount of refrac
tion f.

   For the reasons given above no definite relation between the
pressure, density, and temperature of the air can be extracted
either from the observation of astronomical refractions or from

the theory of them. The only method that seems to be open
for increasing our knowledge of the constitution of the atmo
sphere (and by consequence of elastic fluids in general) is to
multiply thermometrical observations at various heights and dif
ferent stations, for the purpose of determining the law of the
mean distribution of temperature, and how far the variation
from one point to another depends on the variation of density
alone. Something in this respect may possibly be gathered from
                                          our attention.
the subject  which   next claims          Sound. --The    difference  between
    Theory
             of the  Velocity of

· In place of the equation =/> {»>, Mr. Ivory assumes another, viz.,

f)p z= (1 -- f    ~» + /f8, /being an arbitrary quantity, which may have such
                 to it that the rate of decrease of temperature shall be slower as
values assigned
the height increases, and the total height of the atmosphere be of any value
from twenty-five miles to infinity.       This formula he employs in  calculating
refractions, and finds them sufficiently  accurate by taking/= ± and  n infinitely
                                                                      the force of
great, which corresponds to an unlimited atmosphere, supposing

gravity to be the same at all heights.
t The memoir of M. Biot on astronomical refractions, read before the Paris
Academy, Sept 5, 1836, and printed in the additions to the Connaisiance det
Tenufor 1839, treats the problem with all the generality and precision that
may be hoped for on a subject of this nature. 1 advert to the memoir here,
chiefly because its first part, on the conditions of the equilibrium of the atmo
sphere, contains a lucid exposition of the mode of mathematically estimating
the effects of temperature, and of the mixture of aqueous vapour in the air.
234 SIXTH REPORT -- 1836.

the observed velocity of sound and that which Newton derived
from the law of Mariotte (amounting to nearly a sixth of the
whole), has given rise to researches and experiments of a very
interesting nature, in which the philosophers of France have
chiefly signalized themselves. The first attempts to account for
this difference were unavailing. Newton did not succeed. Euler
supposed that as the Newtonian formula was obtained by neg
lecting powers of the velocity of the aerial particles higher than

the first, the difference was attributable to an imperfect approxi
mation. But Lagrange showed that the velocity of propagation
in the hypothetical fluid, of which the pressure varies in the
same proportion as the density, is the same for large excursions
of the vibrating particles as for small. Lagrange also remarked

that he could explain the discordance between the theory and
experiment by supposing the pressure of the air to increase
more rapidly than its density, but was deterred from arguing on
this supposition, as he considered it contradicted by the law of
Mariotte. The true solution was reserved for Laplace, who
first remarked that the excess of the experimental velocity above
the theoretical was owing to the development of heat and pro
duction of cold which accompanies every very sudden compres
sion and dilatation of the air, and which was not taken into ac
count in the theory. This may perhaps be considered the most
successful explanation of a natural phenomenon that has been
given in modern times. The cause assigned was a vera causa,
one that may be presented to our senses, and therefore perfectly

intelligible. A very common experiment by which a combus
tible substance is inflamed by the sudden compression of air,
leaves no room to doubt of the reality of the development of
heat under the circumstances contemplated in the theory. This
explanation was known to be Laplace's a considerable time be
           author published  Man. yBtihoitnginextphreesJsolyurinnawl rirtficngPhryessipqeucet,
fore  its    An article by
ing   it.
I1802, and the memoir of M. Poisson on the Theory of Sound*,

which was written in 1807, contain, believe, the first applica
tions of analysis to Laplace's Theory. Anterior to such appli
cation it is necessary to make some supposition for the purpose
of connecting the effect of the developed heat with the other
elements of the    problem. That     --w"hicInh  Biot and Poisson adopted
is thus expressed   by the latter :              the propagation of sound,
the compression or dilatation which takes place successively in
the whole extent of the mass of air being very small, we may re
gard the augmentation or diminution of temperature due to this

           * Journal dc I'Ecole Polytechnique, call. xiv.
ON THE MATHEMATICAL THEORY OF FLUIDS.                                                     235

change of density as being proportional to it." By aid of this
consideration he arrives at the following equation :

            « = \/9h fl + «» \ ,

in which a is the velocity    of sound, g the            force             of             dgernasvitityy,isg1DA
the pressure of the air on a                           when               its
                              unit of surface,

and temperature 8, and a> the increment of temperature caused

by the sudden condensation y. At the time this memoir was
written no experiments had been made by which the rise of
temperature, caused by a given small and sudden condensation,

could be determined. M. Poisson therefore reverses the ques
tvieolno,ciatyndofinsfoeursndt.heHiencfrinedmsentthaot fiftetmhepedrialatutaretionfromor
                                                                                          the observed
                                                                                          compression
were i-j-g- of the whole volume, the temperature would be de
pressed or elevated one degree of the centigrade thermometer.

In the volume of the Annates de Physique et de Chimie for the

ydeemaron1s8t1ra6t,ioLnapl:ac"eTphueblvisehloecditytheoffosolluonwdinigs  theorem         without the
                                                                          equal to        the product
of the velocity which the Newtonian formula gives, by the square
rootof the ratioof the specific heat of air when the pressure is con
stant to its specific heat when the volume isconstant." The proof
was first given in the Connaissance des Terns for 1825, and after
wards in the fifth volume of the Me'canique Celeste ; previous
to which the experiment* of Clement and Desormes, before men
tioned, had furnished the means of instituting a numerical com
parison between the theoretical and the observed velocity of
sound. This experiment was in fact a practical imitation, as
                          be, of what was supposed      to take place in aerial
nveibarrataisoncso.uldIf  specific heat be defined to  be the quantity of heat

required to raise the temperature 1° under given circumstances,
the datum furnished by the experiment is the ratio of the spe
cific heat under a constant pressure to the specific heat under a

constant volume. It is convenient to speak of it in these terms
though the consideration of specific heats is not absolutely ne
cessary in this question, as we shall presently see. By whatever
terms it be denoted the datum is one which experiment alone can
furnish, and without it no numerical comparison can be made

· See the Memoir in the Journal de Physique for November, 1819. This
                          18co1m3 ptooseMd Mi.n   competition for the prize awarded by the
memoir, which     was                            Delaroche and Berard, contains in addition
French Institute   in

to the detail of experiments made with reference to the subject proposed by
the Institute, viz., the specific heat of gases, the views of the authors respecting
the absolute caloric of space and the absolute zero of caloric.
836 SIXTH REPORT-- 1836.

between the theoretical and observed velocities of sound. The
result of the comparison, first made by Laplace, was, that the
theoretical determination fell short of the observed value by

7m,5. A difference of this kind was to be expected, as it was

impossible to perform the experiment so rapidly that some of
the developed heat would not escape through contact of the air
with the containing substances. The ratio of the specific heats,

as obtained by MM. Clement and Desormes, is 1'354. Gay-

Lussac, on repeating their experiment with great care, and un
der circumstances a little different, found 1*375, which brings
the observed and theoretical velocities something nearer, but
the latter still falls short of the other.

    The mathematical theory* of Laplace is prefaced by certain
theoretical considerations respecting free and latent heat, and
the mutual action of the molecules of bodies and their caloric ;
which are subsequently introduced into the investigation for de

termining the velocity of soundf . It is proper, however, to

observe that the solution of this problem is not necessarily con
nected with any considerations either of latent heat or of speci

fic heats. This is sufficiently apparent from what M. Poisson
has written on the subject. In the first of two excellent papers
(contained in the volume of the Annates de Chimie et de Phy

sique for 1823), which place in a simple point of view all that
has been most satisfactorily established with reference to the
question before us, this author deduces the velocity of sound,
by means of the usual experimental data, from the formula ob
tained in his Memoir on the theory of sound, which, as was
said before, rests on the single assumption that the increment
of temperature is proportional to the condensation, without em
ploying any additional hypothesis whatever, and without any
mention of specific heats or of latent heat. In the same paper
he goes on to show, by adopting the definition of specific heat
stated above, and by further supposing that for small changes
of temperature the absolute quantity of heat gained or lost is
proportional to the rise or fall of the thermometer, that the

· Mecanique CiletU, liv. xii. chap. Hi.                                         that  rff c

f Laplace has also supposed (liv. xii. chap. iii. art. 7,)

= (1--0) --d ? ,                                                                                          ec
                  e ^emS tne density of the gas, c the free caloric which has a

sensible effect on the thermometer, and /3 a positive constant. This equation is

not deduced from anterior considerations.  It follows  from it that --          =  -- /} ii?'
                                                                             c                e

and consequently that the free caloric increases as the density diminishes.
                 ON THE MATHEMATICAL THEORY OF FLWDS.                                   237

quantity expressed   by  1  +                  """    y  is  equal  to  the            ratio  of
                                              + a 9)
                                          (1
the specific heat under a constant pressure to the specific heat
under a constant volume. From the reasoning of M. Poisson
we may therefore infer, that for the theoretical explanation of
the excess of the velocity of sound over the Newtonian determi
nation one assumption only is absolutely necessary, viz., that
the changes of temperature produced by sudden small variations
of density are, for a given temperature of the air, proportional
to those variations ; but if the consideration of specific heats be
introduced, that it is necessary also to suppose the small varia
tions of absolute heat to be proportional to the corresponding
variations of temperature.
      Mr. Ivory has written on this question some things well de
serving of notice. In a paper before referred to* he deduces

                                                         p

                                                             \

                                                               f -p,J
                                                                            J
                                                                                    ,
the velocity of sound from the formula ^ = (                                           which

he had previously arrived at by considerations already stated,

and finds equal to V y/m, V being the velocity obtained ac
cording to the law of Boyle and Mariotte. This the sameis it
                                                                        is
                          is                                                     is is
value that given by other methods, since the index m theis
ratio of the specific heats. When the above equation
                                                                                       em

ployed with reference to the variation of density in the atmo
sphere and to astronomical refractions, the value of m that best
accords with phaenomena nearly 1*25, as we have seen, in
stead of 1*375. This seems to prove that the law of nature                                    is
not expressed under all circumstances by the same formula, and
that one which applies very well to sudden changes of density
of the air in motion inapplicable to those that are permanent,
like the variations of density of the atmosphere at rest depend
ing on the height above the earth's surface.
   Afterwards, in 1827t, Mr. Ivory applied to the problem

different kind of reasoning on the following principles. First,
                                                      :

                                                                    is
                                                                        0,

                                                                                       v*

                                                                                                    ;a
f · itwas admitted that equal quantities of absolute heat produce
equal increments of volume secondly, that the rise of tempe
rature proportional to the increment of volume according to:
        is
            is                        it
the indications of the air thermometer thirdly, that the abso
lute heat equal to the sum of the latent heat, and the heat of
temperature. From which                       follows that the increment of

latent heat      is  also proportional to the increment of volume

hence   if       be the volume when the temperature                     the volume

              »

        Phil. Mag., vol. 60, 12.p.
        Phil. Mag. and Annals, vol.
                                     i.   pp. 91 and 251.
                                   SIXTH REPORT -- 1836.

when the temperature is t, i the increase of latent heat accom
panying the change of volume from v to and a,                                                          two con
stants, will be seen that                                   v
v                                                                       v*

     it                                                                  (1 v1,

                                                                                           /3

                                                                                 i).

                                                                                                  /3,
                              v»= + a r), and = +
                  v               (1

Hence a r =                   /3   or -- = -- . The first of the expressions

                               i,                  T

                                      P

for supposes the volume to change under constant pressure
                                                        a                                                 ;
                                                                         a
tthe other obtains in whatever way the change of volume takes
place. The ratio of to                              the ratio of the heat absorbed by a
                                  i

                                               is

mass of air, or become latent, by given sudden rarefaction,
to the heat of temperature required to expand the mass to the
same degree of rarefaction.                         This ratio can therefore be in

ferred from the experiment of Clement and Desormes, so often
cited and as « known, may also be found. The absolute
is                                          a           thofistethmepoerrya, tutre+       under con
heat   required               to produce          rise                             r       and that re a
stant   ;pressure              is, according    (3 to

                  is                                                               i
                            is
                                                                                       ;

quired to cause the same rise of temperature when the volume

constant                      t. Hence                  is  the ratio of the specific heats;

and admitting Laplace's theorem, the factor by which the
                                                                                          a/ -f
Newtonian velocity of sound must be multiplied                                       ;

                                                                                       is

                                                                                            l

                                                                                                         1
/                             · Mr. Ivory finally observes* that the main ele

                 1

               +
                     5
or *

ment on which the solution of the problem must turn, by what"isa
ever process the result brought out, the quantity of heat       is
extricated from air condensed in given degree and accord
ingly he proceeds to investigate in an independent manner,it
the relation between the elasticity and density of a mass of air
that varies its temperature as dilates or contracts, without
losing or receiving any heat by means of the surrounding me
dium. This investigation conducts to the following relation
between the pressure and the density

from which the velocity of propagation of sound arrived at by
                              *
                                                                                i.
                                                                                    p.

                                                                            0
                                                                               is
/lthe usual process, the factor being aV                            + J± as before. From

                                Phil. Mag. and An., vol.            252.
         ON THE MATHEMATICAL THEORY OF FLUIDS.                                                                239

the above relation between p and p, Mr.                                        Ivory infers   (p. 255)
                                                                                a constant   ratio for
that the ratio of the specific heats is not
large variations of density and temperature*.
The principle on which the effect of moisture contained in the
air is introduced into the theoretical determination of the velocity

Ifof sound, is derived from Dalton's theory of mixed gases.
two quantities, », of two gases under the same pressure p,
             p
                       i, v',

                                                     8,
and of the same temperature be put into a space + the
gases will penetrate into each other and become perfectly mixed,                           is
so that the proportional parts will be everywhere the same in                                    v
the same space. Also the temperature and pressure of the mix                                          a
ture will be and the same as those of the constituents.                                                       v*,
From these facts, established by experience, may be derived by
reasoning as Poisson has done in the second of his papers in vol.
xxiii. of the Annules  daelsCohcimon.firemt sPh--ys.",
law, which experience                                                           p. 348, the  following
          a                                                                    The pressure  of mix
                is
                                           is
                                                   a

                                                                            :
ture of gases and vapours will always be the sum of the pres
sures which these fluids would support separately at the same
temperature, and the same in volume as the mixture." The
              in                                                             mixture of dry air and vapour
atmosphere        its usual   state                                          maximum of aqueous vapour
             It      found   that the
of water.
formed in vacuum at the temperature 18°-7S C, measured
by the barometric height O^OIB, and by the preceding law the
same height of the barometer would measure the elastic force of
vapour formed at the same temperature in dry air of the ordinary
pressure (^'76, and increase the pressure to Om,776, since the
maximum of vapour, that is, the greatest quantity which the
given temperature allows to be formed, the same in the two
                                                                               is

                                                                                                          if
cases. Gay-Lussac has inferred from his experiments, that
aqueous vapour could be raised from the tension 0m-016 to
C^o without liquifying, its density would be to that of dry air,
under the same pressure and at the same temperature, as to 8.
                                                                               a
                                                                                                   5
Hence in general, D be the density of dry air, D' that of moist
                  if

air under given barometric pressure and at given tempe-
         Ia                  p

                                          {

                                              A,
   · An equivalent relation between and may be obtained in anotber man
ner, which have adverted to in a communication to the No. of the Phil. Mag.
and Annals for May, 1830, and have since developed more fully in paper re
                                                                                             a
                                                                                                  is
cently read before the Cambridge Philosophical Society viz. by assuming the
                                                                               ;
                                                                                   a
velocity of propagation of sound to be constant when the temperature                                  given,
and then joining with the usual equations of fluid motion, general expression
for uniform propagation, which may be arrived at independently of the consi
deration of temperature. When the resulting equation between and
                                                                                           p                  used

                                                                                                 ;

                                                                                                          is

for finding the velocity of propagation,                                     gives an expression agreeing with that
                             a

                                          it
obtained on the supposition of constant ratio of the specific heats, when tin-
condensations and rarefactions are small, but diverging from as they become
                                                                                      it

larger.
240 SIXTH REPORT -- 1836.
rature, and n be the tension of the vapour which the moist air

jcontains, the density of the air in the mixture will be D y 1 -- ^

                 D       --,    and  consequently  the density of the
(l -that of thevapour
                         8A

compound D' is equal to D               ^)- Thus the actual density

is given in terms of the density of dry air under the same pres
sure. In any instance to which this expression is applied, the
quantity n will have to be determined by observation of the hy

grometer.
   The manner in which the theoretical formula for determining

the velocity of sound is brought to the greatest possible degree of
perfection having been now exhibited, it will be interesting to
compare the result it gives with the most accurate experiments.
Those which claim the greatest confidence in this respect are the
experiments undertaken by Professor Moll, of Utrecht, and Dr.
Van Beek in June 1823, a detail of which is contained in the

Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society for 1824 (p.
424.) Measures were taken to secure that the firing of the guns
at two stations should take place as nearly as possible at the
same instant, which was effected with much greater precision
in these experiments than in those of the French Academicians
in 1822. By this precaution the cause of error arising from the
wind is removed, the velocity of propagation in still air being
assumed to be the arithmetic mean between the velocities in
ferred from the observations at the two stations, as in fact it

might be shown to be theoretically. The difference between
two determinations on different days, when this precaution was
attended to, was only 2*166 feet, whereas two other determina
tions on different days, when the shots were not reciprocal,
differed by 20-84 feet. The mean velocity which the experiments
gave for dry air at 0° of temperature was 3.32m-05 ( = 1089-744
English feet). The mean excess of the experimental determina
tion over the theoretical, supposing the ratio of the specific
heats    to be 1-3748*,    was 4m-58 (  = 15-032 feet).
                         experiments},   made in 1823, an  anemometer
   In    Dr. Gregorys

was employed whose indications were found to agree with the
velocity of the wind, as inferred from the difference of the velo-

   · It is shown bv Dr. Simons  (Phil. Trans., 1830, p. 213.) that the mean value
of this ratio as derived from   the experiments of Drs. Moll and Van Beek is

1-4152.

f Cambridge Philosophical Transactions, vol. ii. p. 119.
        ON THE MATHEMATICAL THEOIIY OF FLUIDS.                                                                                       241

cities of sound when aided, and when opposed by the wind.
The experiments were made with intervals between the stations,
varying from less than half a mile to 2^ miles, and in tempera
tures varying from 27° to 66° Fahr. The mean of eight results
reduced to the temperature of freezing is stated by Sir John
Herschel (Art. Sound, Ency. Metrop.) to be 1088-05 feet. The
velocity observed at the temperature of freezing was 1090" 17
feet.

   A valuable seriesof experiments was made by Mr. Goldingham,

at Madras, in 1820, extending through every month of the year.
The following is a table of the mean temperature and mean de
termination of velocity for each month.

Month.           Mean Height            Velocity  Month.          Mean Height                                                        Velocity
                         of               in a                             of
                                                                                                                                        in a
                 Thermometer.           Second.                   Thermometer.                                                       Second.

                                           ft. ·            ....                                                                      ft.
                                                                                                                                     1164
                                        1101 July                                                                                    1163
January . .is    79-05                                                                                                           65  1152
                 78-84                                                                                                               1128
February. .        .82-30               1117 August . .                                                                    8502      1101
                 85-79                                                                                                     84-49     1099
March.                                                               a... ...88-111134September                            84-33
April                                                                     a....87-101145October . .
        ....                                                                                                               81-35
May                                                                                                                    86°-1151 November7937
June
                                        1157 December

It interesting to observe, as the author remarks, " how re

gularly the mean velocity proceeds to maximum about the
middle of the year, and afterwards retraces its steps, giving us
a velocity in one case of 1164 feet in second, and in the other
of only 1099 feet. This regularity would, no doubt, be still
greater with the mean of the observations of several years." In
                                                  been compared with theory by
these experiments              (which have         of the barometer and hygro
                            the indications
Mr. Galbraith*)
meter were noted and though the experiments were not made
                 ;

                                    is
                                                                        is
by simultaneous reports, the effect of the wind may be consi
                                  eliminated in                                                                            of the observa
dered  to be   completely                              the   mean                                                           that the differ
tions  of the  whole year.          It worthy          of   remark

ence between the greatest and least velocities                                                                                       much more

considerable than, according to theory, would be due to the
corresponding difference of temperature. The greatest and least
indications of the hygrometer were 27*85 and 1-43, the former in

July and the other in December, the two months in which the ve
locity of sound was greatest and least. Sir John Herschel gives
as the mean determination from the total of Mr. Goldingham
                                                                                                                           p.
                                                                                                                               a

                                                                                                                                                 's
experiments reduced to the temperature of freezing, velocity of

        ·  --See1P8h3i6l..  Mag.  vol.  Ixvi. p. 109,  and  vol.  bcviii.                                                    214.
rvol.
       v.
-> 1>              SIXTH REPORT -- 1836.

1086*7 feet. This must be cons'ulered as applying to the mean
state of the hygrometer, the nature of which not being stated,
its indications could not be made use of.

   Experiments were made by Captain Parry and Lieut. Foster
expressly to determine the effect of low temperatures on the
velocity of sound*. The following is a mean of results.

Therm.       - - - - -41°-3                            20°0 + 33°-3
Fahr.              33°3            27°2       21°0

 Velocity    9859  1011-2          1009-2  1031-0      1039-8    1069-9
in feet per
 Second.

A comparison of the velocities at the highest and lowest tem
peratures differing by 74°*6, gives an increase of velocity of
1-126 feet for each increase of temperature by 1° of Fahren

heit. A like comparison of the velocity at the lowest tem
perature, -- 41°-3, with the velocity in Mr. Goldingham's
experiments at the temperature 87°, gives an increase of 1 -35
feet for each degree of Fahrenheit.
   The  eixnpe1r8im24e--nts18o25f  Captain Parry and Lieut. Foster at Port
Bowen
                                   have been compared with the theory by
Professor Mollf. On using the coefficient 1-375, the velocity
given by the theory falls short of the experimental value by
17*47 feet, a difference exceeding that resulting from a like
comparison of the experiments in the Netherlands by something

less than 2\ feet. In the arctic experiments the state of moi
sture in the air was not noted ; but Professor Moll shows that

this omission is productive of a very small error in very low
temperatures. The near agreement of experiments made under

circumstances so widely different, must lead us to suspect, as
Professor Moll justly observes, that the difference which still
remains between the results of computation and observation are
to be ascribed to some imperfection in the theoretical formula,
and not to         fault in the observations  J.
   In 1828   any   Dulong§ read a memoir          the  specific  heats of
                                              on
             M.

elastic fluids, which requires to be noticed in conjunction with

   · See p. 235 of the Supplement to the Appendix of Captain Parry's Voyage
in 1819--1820.

  Jt Phil. Trans. 1823, p. 97.

     For a synoptical view of the results obtained by different observers, the dates
of their observations, and the circumstances under which they were made, I
may refer to a table in Art. 16 of Sir John Herschel's Treatise on Sound in
the Encyclopedia Metropolitana.

   § Mimoires dc I'lnstitul, torn. x. p. 147.
            ON THE MATHEMATICAL THEORY OP FLUIDS.                                                                            243

the subject before us. M. Dulong takes for demonstrated that
the square of the quotient of the real velocity of sound in any
elastic fluid whatever, divided by the velocity calculated accord
ing to the formula of Newton, is equal to the ratio of the speci
fic heat for a constant pressure to the specific heat for a constant
volume. His object is to find this ratio for different elastic fluids,
which, it is plain, may be inferred, according to this theorem,
from        real velocity with         which sound is
       the  possible to obtain         these velocities  propagated in them.
It is  not                                               for any other elastic
fluid than atmospheric air, excepting by indirect means. M.
Dulong avails himself of a method which had been previously em
ployed by various experimenters, but not with complete success,
as was evident from the discordant results they obtained. The
method consists in determining the velocity of propagation from
the musical note rendered by a given cylindrical tube, and from

the measured distance between two consecutive nodal sections

or positions of minimum vibration, which interval he calls the
length of a concameration. The pitch of the note gives the
number of vibrations in a given time, and consequently the time
of propagation over the measured interval, and therefore the ve
locity of the sound. By pursuing a process different from any
that had been adopted before, M. Dulong is enabled to give
great precision to this method. He first operates on atmo
spheric air, with the view of ascertaining the accuracy which the
method admits of. By various trials, each more exact than the
preceding, he obtains results, all of which fall short in a small
degree of the velocity obtained by direct observation, and ac
cordingly comes to the conclusion that the relation indicated by
theory between the velocity of sound in free air, and the length,
such as it can be observed, of the concamerations that are formed
in a flute-tube, is not verified exactly. He hints at some experi
Iments proper for making evident the cause of this discordance,

but am not aware that any such have been published.
As this method fails in giving exactly the ratio of the specific
hvwaehtaiitocsnhsohfmeaatsmdaeyossipn"hefirsreicethaeairimr,beyMand. ifoDfefurleaonngtgreoaabtdsoenprutvmsebraes.r"raotifIo
                                                                                                                              (viz. 1*421)
                                                                                                                             direct obser
                                                                                                                             mention this

particularly, as it seems to have been supposed* that Dulong

· M. Poisson's excellent Treatise on Mechanics is a work so extensively used
that it is desirable to point out any error that may have inadvertently crept
into it. I do not therefore scruple to advert to an inaccuracy in p. 716, torn. li.
(2nd ed.), where the author asserts that the ratio 1-421 is deduced from obser
vation of  the                         air inclosed in a tube, and endeavours to                                             ac
count for  the  sound   produced by    above another derived from the propagation
                excess  of this value                                                                                         of

sound in free air, by the different radiation of heat in the two circumstances.
This is contradicted by the assertion quoted above from Dulong's Memoir.
                                       R2
244 sixth report -- 1836.

obtained this ratio from his own experiments. In the next place
he establishes, contrary to an opinion previously expressed by
M. Biot, that with gases very different in their physical proper
ties, such as hydrogen gas and carbonic acid gas, the nodal
sections are exactly in the same positions in the same tube. This
is an important fact with reference to the theory of vibrations
of aeriform fluids in tubes, from which it readily follows that
the relative velocities of propagation of different elastic fluids
may be inferred from the musical notes they give out from the
same tube ; and taking the ratio of the specific heats of air to be
that determined by direct observations on sound, the ratios for
the other fluids will be immediately deduced from these veloci
/, /ties. Representing in general the ratio of the specific heats by

1 + the quantity is taken by Dulong to be the measure of
the thermometric effect produced by sudden and equal changes
of density of the several fluids ; then assuming the thermometric
effects thus developed to be inversely as the specific heats under
a constant volume, he is furnished with numbers to express these
specific heats, that of air being expressed by unity. Hence by
means of the ratios of the specific heats obtained as above men
tioned, numbers expressive of the specific heats under a constant
pressure are also arrived at, that of air being again taken for the
unit. These last numbers, compared with those which Berard
and Delaroche* obtained by direct experiment, are found to
Iagree with considerable accuracy. In                            this part of
t"hehoswubmjeuccth   cannot  forbear  remarking,    concluding   of Dulong,
                    science  owes to  the natural  in the words   who direct

                                                   philosophers

their labours towards giving more and more precision to the de
termination of the numerical coefficients which become theo

retical elements of constant use." Suchare the numerical measure
of the force of gravity ; the ratio of the density of mercury to
that of air ; the coefficients of the dilatation of mercury and of the
gases ; the- ratios of the densities of elastic fluids ; the actual

velocity of sound in air. All these constants, together with the
exact length of the aerial vibrations corresponding to a given
musical note, have been employed in arriving at the principal
conclusion contained in the valuable memoir which has been the
subject of the preceding remarks.
                                      Liquids. --The  experiments
   Propagation of Sound through
of Canton, of CErsted, and Colladon and Sturm have ascertained
the degree in which water is compressible, and proved that for
small changes of volume the compressions are proportional to
the compressing forces. This law seems to indicate that the

                    * Annates de Cfiimie, torn, lxxxv. pp. 72 and 113.
ON THE MATHEMATICAL THEORY OF FLUIDS.                                           245

pressure in the interior of liquids is a function of the density,
(at least at distances from their surfaces greater than the radius
of the sphere of the molecular action). For admitting this to
be the case, it will be a simple analytical consequence, that the
small variations of pressure are proportional to the correspond
ing variations of density, whatever be the form of the function
which connects the pressure and density together*. The know
ledge of the degree of compressibility of water or of any other
liquid, furnishes the means of determining the velocity with
which sound is propagated in it. This application of the expe
rimental determination of compression has been made by Dr.
Youngf and Laplace, who have each given a formula by which,
when the contraction is known for a given pressure, the velocity
of propagation can be calculated. Poissou has also given a de

masownsetlrlattoionsoloidftsheafsortionulilqauinidsq. ueIsftio1n)},bewthhiechd, eint saiptypeoarfst,haeppsloielisd

or liquid, k the length of a cylindrical column of it under a
known pressure, t the small diminution of this length by a given
increase of pressure P, then the velocity of propagation will be

yP~k-xr- . This formula has been put to the test by experiments

made in the lake of Geneva by M. Colladon in 1826§. On ob
serving that the sound of a bell struck a little below the surface
of the water was not audible out of the water at considerable

distances from the point of disturbance, but appeared to be de
flected downwards when it fell very obliquely on the water sur
face, it occurred to him to place a little below the surface a metallic
plate, with its plane vertical and perpendicular to the direction
of the sound, surmounted by a conical tube, to the end of which
when the ear was applied the sounds caught by the metal plate
were audible when they came from a distance of 13487 metres.
The sound traversed this distance in 9*4 seconds, consequently
the velocity was 1435 metres in a second. By calculating the
velocity given by the formula with due attention                  to all   the   cir
cumstances that might affect the accuracy of the                result,         Col
                                                                          M.

ladon finds 1428 metres. The difference between this and the

experimental value falls within the limits of the possible errors
of observation, and the accordance of the theory with fact may

· Experiments on alcohol and sulphuric aether show a scnsihlc diminution of
                                           the Essay of    MM.  Colladon and  Sturm,
contraction for  high pressures.      See  p. 144 -- 147.
An. de Chim. ct  de Phys., torn,  xxxvi.

t Lecturet on Natural Philosophy, vol. ii. p. 69.
X Mimoires de I'Institut, An 18KJ, p. 396--400.
§ An. de Chim. ct de Phys. lorn, xxxvi. p. 242.
246 sixth RKroRT -- 1836.

therefore be pronounced to be satisfactory. As the formula was
obtained without taking into account the effect of the develop
ment of heat, we may infer from the small difference between the
above results, that this effect, if not wholly insensible, is of very
small amount. M. Colladon remarks respecting the nature of
the sound transmitted through the water, that when caused by
the striking of a bell, it was heard as a sharp and dry sound,
resembling the striking of two knife-blades against each other.
This fact seems to prove with respect to liquids, what is also
most probably true of solids, that the relation between their
density and pressure is such as not to allow the condensations
arising from any disturbing cause to be transmitted to great di
stances exactly in the order and proportion in which they are
originally impressed, in the same manner as when the pressure
varies in the simple ratio of the density. On this account pro
bably, as well as by reason of their great density, liquids and
solids are not vehicles so proper for conveying vocal sounds as
aeriform fluids.
   Theories of Elastic  Fluids. -- A few words must now be said

on those refined theories respecting elastic fluids, which, pro
ceeding upon certain hypotheses of their ultimate constitution
and the action of molecular forces, are directed to the purpose
of accounting by mathematical reasoning for certain of their
fundamental properties, with which we have originally become
acquainted by experience only. Such a theory is that at the
commencement of the 12th book of the Micanique Celeste, to
which allusion has already been made. The leading principles
of this theory are of the following nature. Each molecule of a
body, whether in the solid, liquid, or aeriform state, is submitted
to the action of three forces : 1°. The repulsion of its caloric by
the caloric of the other molecules. 2 . The attraction of its
caloric by these molecules. 3°. The attraction of the molecule
itself, either by the caloric of these molecules or by the molecules
themselves. The caloric of each particle is supposed to be

attached to it by the attraction of the particle. In aeriform
bodies, the two latter, the attractive forces, are considered to be
insensible, and the only action the molecules are subject to is
that arising from the mutual repulsion of their caloric. This
action is conceived to be independent of the nature of the mole
cules. From these principles Laplace derives, by no very com
plex mathematical reasoning, the fundamental properties of
clastic fluids, viz., the law of Mariotte, the law of Dalton and
Gay-Lussac, (which are shown to be true of mixed as well as
simple gases,) and the law of the pressure of mixed gases. The
same principles, together with the consideration of sensible and
ON THE MATHEMATICAL THEORY OF FLUIDS.                                      217

latent heat and of specific heats, are employed in solving the
problem of the velocity of sound, the solution of which, as was
before remarked, Poisson has derived from the fundamental
properties of elastic fluids considered as data of observation.
   With reference to the preceding theory it may be remarked,
that although it conducts by simple analysis to the fundamental
properties of elastic fluids, and would seem on that account to

possess the character of truth, yet it does not appear to have
nbeoet nsuvfefircyiegnetlnyernaalltyurraecl.eiveId,wiallndvenbtyurseomtoe
                                                                            is considered to   be
                                                                           suggest a reason
                                                                                              for
this, which is equally applicable to some other of the more abs
tract physical theories, viz. that after we have gone through
the mathematical reasoning, and been satisfied of its correctness,
on recurring to the original hypotheses, there is some difficulty
in judging of them or comprehending them by comparison with
Ifanything we see or know by experience. They are too little
analogous to facts of observation.  a theory cannot rest on
experimental facts, it ought at least to contain no hypotheses
which may not be distinctly understood from our experimental
knowledge : possibly it is not otherwise a view of the real facts
of nature. In short, the evidence for the truth of hypotheses
which from their nature do not admit of immediate verification

by experiment, must depend as much on the facility with which
they are conceived in the mind, and can be expressed in terms
of acknowledged import, as upon the accordance of the mathe
matical results they lead to with experience.

   In one* of the volumes of the Journal of the Polytechnic
School there is an elaborate memoir by M. Poisson, which com
prises the substance of two preceding memoirs on the equili
brium and motion of clastic bodies, and on the equilibrium of

fluids, and concludes with calculating, according to the principles
of the reasoning contained in the preceding part, the pressure of
fluids in motion. Throughout this work the reasoning is con
ducted on the hypothesis that bodies are formed of disjoined
"molecules, separated from one another by spaces void of ponder

able matter, which is considered to be actually the case in
nature;" and the chief object in view is to form the general
equations of the equilibrium and motion both of elastic bodies
and of liquid and aeriform bodies, according to this hypo
thesis, in a manner as simple and as free from difficulty as
possible. By taking account of the void spaces separating
the atoms, it is found that the pressure is expressed, not by
an integral, but by a sum, which, on the supposition that the
intervals between the molecules are small compared to their

* Tom. xiii. cah. 20, p. 1.
248 SIXTH REPORT 1836.

radius of activity, is reducible to a very converging series, the
terms of which depend on the density. In this manner the
following equation, containing two terms of the series, and ap

plicable to solids not crystallized, to liquids, and to gases, is ob

tained :                      fp = a + b p |,

in which p is the pressure, equal in all directions, p the density,
and a and b constant coefficients depending only on the nature
of the body and the quantity of heat. This equation applies
without any consideration of latent heat. Laplace in his specu
                                                                  But as
is

       a
                                                                                          p
                                                                          £,

                                                                                                   p*.
                                                                                                      a

                                                                                       it
lations arrived at an equation of the form p = a
appeared from the phenomenon of the propagation of sound that
for given quantity of caloric, and consequently                   constant

value of a, the pressure varied nearly as      to account for this

difference the supposition of latent heat was introduced, which
   avoided by the more general formula consisting of two terms.

M. Poisson shows how his formula indicates that in solids and
liquids the mutual attraction of the molecules extends further
than their repulsion, and may be sensible at distances where the

latter has altogether disappeared. In this and other of his
writings M. Poisson considers the characteristic property of

fluids, or the condition of fluidity to be, that the molecules ar
range themselves alike in all directions from any fixed point,
and with this property, that of pressing equally in all directions
to be intimately connected. Probably few will be disposed to
dissent from this view. But when he proceeds to assign as an
a priori reason for this property the perfect mobility of the par
ticles, and considers this mobility to residt from their spherical
form, or from their being so remote from each other that their
form has no sensible influence on their mutual action, we caunot

but feel that the cause assigned   not such that we can judge
of by any previous knowledge
                                  or experience. It would be
it                                is

                           a           if

                                                        a
                                                               a
more in conformity with the rule Newton laid down of referring
effects to ultimate mechanical causes, the mobility of the par
ticles of fluids and the property of similar distribution in all
directions about given point, were ascribed to particular ac
tion of the molecular forces resulting from particular law of

variation. If, for instance, the molecular repulsion from single
                                                                  a

particle, or rather the resultant of the repulsions from an aggre
gate of particles, decreased very rapidly at certain small di
stance from the centre to which   a it

                                        it is
                                                        a
                                  directed, and then after

becoming attractive, extended to much larger distance without
ever becoming of large magnitude, seems demonstrahle that
    ON THE MATHEMATICAL THEORY OF FLUIDS.   249

from such a law the above-mentioned properties would result ; for

the state of things would thus be nearly the same as if the fluid
were supposed to consist of perfectly smooth spherical balls in
contact, whose radii are all equal to the radius of the sphere of
activity of the molecular repulsion, and whose centres conse
quently in the state of equilibrium are equidistant. This mode
of accounting for the characteristic property of fluids is not in
consistent with the principal inference M. Poisson draws from
his calculation of the pressure of fluid in motion, viz., that the
pressure is not the same in all directions from a given point.

For this deviation from the law of equal pressure may be reason
ably ascribed to the circumstance that the molecules take time
to fulfil the condition of similarity of arrangement, being made
to  assume their   positions relatively to  eIacmh aoythheerreboybstheerveactthioant
of  the repulsive  and attractive forces.

although the inequality of pressure of fluids in motion is a legi
timate deduction from the molecular hypothesis, yet as theory
cannot determine the amount of error committed by considering
the pressure equal, it seems unnecessary to take account of the
inequality unless some error should be detected by experiment,
especially as we know beforehand that the amount must be very
small.

   In closing this communication, I beg leave to add a few no
tices respecting subjects contained in my former reports ; and
first, with regard to capillary attraction, it will be right to ob
serve that some remarks made in the last report, in accordance
Iwith the strictures of Dr. Young on the equation in art. 12 of

Laplace's Theory, afterwards saw reason to conclude were in
correct, and in a communication to the Philosophical Magazine
and Journal of Science for February 1836, explained that the
proper inference from that equation, though Laplace omits to
    it,
                                       if
draw is, that the angle of actual contact of two fluids, or of a
solid and fluid when the specific gravities are not very different,

is an exceedingly small angle*, the contact be perfect. It does
not appear that any exception can be taken to the reasoning in
any part of Laplace's Theory. The principles may indeed be
objected to on the ground that Poisson takes up, viz., that
the molecular constitution of bodies be admitted, there must beof

superficial variation of density which that theory takes no aca if
count of as, however, experiment has not yet detected any such
*

  A
                 :

                      I
variation, and we have no means of assigning the amount of its

          phenomenon chanced to observe presented by oil floating on water
seems to favour this inference. See Phil. Mug. and Journal Science for
April 1836.
250 SIXTH HEPORT -- 1836.

influence, it would be premature to reject the theory on that
ground, especially as the probability is that the effect which

Ithis consideration has on the numerical results of the calculations

will at all events be small. In the paper just referred to have
given reasons for thinking that the law of molecular forces which
will account for the fluidity of liquids is also that for which the
effect of the superficial variation of density would be small in

capillary phsenomena.
   Subsequent to the experiments by M. Link, which are noticed
in the report on capillary attraction, others* were made by
the same author not agreeing in their results with the former.
After taking the precaution of freeing the solid plates against
which the fluid ascended from the effects of greasiness contracted
in polishing, it was not found as before, that different fluids
ascended to the same height between the same plates ; and the
experiments only partially confirmed the law to which theory
leads, of equal ascents of the same fluid between plates of differ
ent material thoroughly moistened. The deviation from this
law is probably owing to the influence of particular affinities
between the solids and fluids which the theory cannot take into

account.

   More recently have appeared the results of experiments by
M. Frankenheim of Breslau, on the ascents of a great variety
of fluids in capillary glass tubesf. These were made for deter
omfinfilnugidthbeocdoiehse.sionI,f  or  as  M. Frankenheim calls                                 it,
                                        be
                                            the height of ascent,                                   r
      r(                                                                                             the synaphia
            h                                                                                    and the radius
                +
               Y
                               A
                                is
of the tube, the specific synaphia he considers to be proportional

t0\/            - It worthy of remark that the height of

ascent of water in these experiments exceeds that of any of the
other fluids, and that the mixing of water with other fluids has
a very sensible effect in increasing their heights of ascent.
                                                                                                       It

also appears that an increase of temperature sensibly diminishes
the height of the ascending column. Similar
                                             experiments                                                made
some years sincej by Mr. Emmett, assigned    the highest                                               ascent
(except in one instance) to water, and clearly showed also the
effect of an increase of                temperature in diminishing the height.
                                        the remark that to produce this diminu
Mr. Emmett has made

tion of height  necessary merely to increase the temperature
          Xt ·
                  it
                        is

                                                           i.
                                                                                             2,
of the upper surface of the fluid column.

          Annalen der Pkysik und ChemU, 1834, No. 38.
          Annalen der Phys. und Chem., 1836, No. p. 409.
          Phil. Mag. and Annals, vol. 1827, p. 115 and 332.
ON THE MATHEMATICAL THEORY OF FLUIDS.                                    251

The circumstance of floatiug bodies rising vertically when
drawn with considerable velocities along the surface of water,
having attracted attention a few years ago, induced me to try to
explain the fact on mechanical principles, and accordingly, in a
                            in                                     Transactions*,
fahpaevrepeunbtliesrheedd  on   the Cambridge   Philosophical      which accounts
                                a mathematical   investigation

for such a fact, and shows in the instance taken, that when the
velocity of draught is uniform the rise is proportional to the
square of the velocity, in accordance with an experimental re
sult obtained    bpyapMerr.(thRouusgshellIf.       The             is not pursued
further in that                               believe    inquiry   done according
                                                        it may be
to the method there employed), the immediate object in view
being to gain confidence for the particular process of reasoning
adopted, which differs in some respects from that of previous
writers on fluid motion, by explaining to a considerable extent
a fact which had not before been shown to depend on received
mechanical principles.
   The problem of the resistance of the air to a ball pendulum
has been undertaken by M. Plana in a Memoir on the Motion
of a Pendulum in a resisting medium, (Turin, 1835,) in which
the resistance of an incompressible fluid is first considered, and
then that of an elastic fluid ; and in both cases the author finds,

as Poisson had done, that the loss of weight of the sphere
exceeds by just one half, the weight of the fluid it displaces.
The question, however, has not yet received a satisfactory solu
tion, since theory has hitherto failed to account for one of the
leading circumstances of the case, viz., that the coefficient of
resistance is different for small spheres of different diameters.
This difference it appears would equally exist whether the balls
vibrated in a confined apparatus or in free air.
The above particulars are mentioned for the purpose of calling
                                              of fluids which   are still open
                                              state that one    of the objects
Iiamttpernotvioenmetontp,aratnsdofI                                             to
                                the theory
                                may here
have chiefly had in view in this communication to the Associa
t · it

                          of p.

                        it it,
                                              it

                                                                                  p.

                                                                                        is
tion, and in those preceding has been to bring into more notice
the mathematical theory of fluids and place in its proper rank
among applied sciences. Judging from the very few contribu
tions which have been made by Englishmen to this department
of science, would appear to have been held by us in disesteem.
From the time of Newton till within these few years scarcely
anything was written upon in this country. This neglect
the less to be defended as there are few subjects in natural phi
losophy which are not connected in some manner or other with

Vol. v. Part ii.                173.                               533.
Fourth Report                   the British Association,
252 SIXTH REPORT -- 1836.

the properties of fluids. It is even possible that the present
inquiries respecting the nature of the imponderable agents, which

have given rise to such long-continued and widely extended
experiments, may be waiting to receive satisfactory answers

until greater perfection shall be given to the application of ma

thematics to the determination of the laws of fluid motion and
pressure.
                                                   253

Comparative View of the more remarkable Plants which cha
  racterize the Neighbourhood of Dublin, the Neighbourhood

  ouApf.LEfo.dSrin.t,bhue8rBgfcrh,it,isaahsnsdiAststehsdeocSbiaoytuiotRhno-,wbebesyrttJ.oGfTS.racMhoatalcamkn,ady, E,$scMq..,.;RMd.Ir..aADw..n,,

   Professor of Botany in the University of Edinburgh. Read
   at the Bristol Meeting, August 1836.

   Contractions.-- N. & S., North and South of Ireland. S. of South of Ireland.
        I.,
                                          &
                                             &
                                                      I.,

                                                                                         S.

                                                                                    I.,
                                                                                              I.,

                                                                                                        &
W. of I., West of ditto. S. N. W., South, North, and West of ditto. S. & W.,
South and West of ditto. S. N. of South and North of ditto. N. W., North
and West of ditto. S. Arran, South Arran.                 W. of                     South-west of Ireland.
N. of North of ditto.

             Dublin.          Edinburgh  .   South-west                             Dublin.     Edinburgh.     South-west
                                             ofScotland.                                                       ofScotland.

   Ranunculacett.

Thalictrum minus       **                    *            Barbarea prsecox                 * * * * * I. *
   ,, flavum                     *«                                                                 * * ** ·
                                   *                      Arabia ciliata,           W. of *                 *
                                                             ,, hirsuta
Ranunculus parviflorus*

,, birsutus N. & S.               *                       Cardamine Aniara                                     **

                              * Naturalized               Thlaspi arvense                    *
                    *I <r                                 Sisymbrium Iris
                            Isat probably
Aquilegia vulgaris            it  near Dub                  ,, Sophia                                 *
                                                          Coronopus Ruelli
Trollius europseus            lin. *                      Lepidium ruderale                      ·Introduced.  ·
                                                                                                               *
   Papaveracea.                                             ,, campestrc                     *                 *
                                                             ,, Smithii                      **
                                                                                                               *
Papaper somniferum *                                      Crambe maritima                    *  *              *
                                                                                                               *
,, hybridum            ** *                               Teesdalia nudicaulis ....
,, Argemone                      *                                                                             *j
                          **                              Kaphanus maritimus ...

Meconopsis cambrica ·Introduced.                *

Glaucium luteum                                                         Fiolaeete.

         Fumariacecp.     ?*       ·                      Viola hirta                      * ***            *
                                  **                        ,, odorata                               ** *
Corydalis claviculata                                        ,, palustris
Fumariaparviflora,S.ofI.
                                                             ,, Curtisii
   ,, densiflora, D.C.

           Cruciferte.    **       *                                     Cistinece.
                                   *
Nasturtium sylvestre               *                      }'Heliamhemura vulgare,
    ,, terrestre                                                                S. Arran

Alyssum calycinumf ...

t  This now appears to be the same plant which was published in mv Catalogue of

Irish Plants under the name of Clypeola Ionihlaspi, but as                          it                      doubtful native
                                                                                         is
                                                                                             a
                                                                                               it
and lias probably been introduced, have for the present expunged                                               from the Irish
                                             I

Flora.
254 SIXTH REPORT -- 1836.

                  Dublin.         Edin  burgh  .  South-west    Dublin.                        Edinburgh,  South-west
                                                  of Scotland.                                             ofScotland.

           Drmeracece.                                                                         *
Drosera longifolia,N.&S.                                                                **
                                        *         *             ,, reflexum             *                  *
  ,, anglica, S.N. &W.                            *             ,, rupestre                                *
                                                                                                 *         *
                                                                                                           *
Mahacea.                                ·                                                                  *
                                                                                                           *
Malva rotimdifolia            *                   ·                      Saxifragea.                       *
                                                  *                                                        *
  ,, moschata        S.&W.        Introduced.     *                ,, granulata         *      *
Altluca officinalis          *                                     ,, tridactylites     *      *           ·
Lavatera arborea                        *         *                                     *      *
                                                                   ,, aizoides          *      *           *
Uyperiemea.                                       *
                                                  *                       Leguminosce.         *           »
Hypericum  Androssc*-         1                                 Ulex nanus
      mum                                                       Genista tinctoria                          ·
                              J
,, dubium                                                                                                  *
,, hirsutum                             *
,, elodes
                              *

                                                                Astragalus glycyphyllus        *

Caryophylleee.                                                  ,, liypoglottis         "1 *

                                        *                       S. Arran J                     *
                                                                                               *
  ,, deltoides, lately        1         *         *
         found near Cork
                              J*  ·Introduced                   Melilotus officinalis *        *
Saponaria officinalis                                             ,, leucantha S. ofl.
             S. & N. 1                                                                         *
                                                  *                                            *
                ofl.
JSilene
anglica,                                *

                                        ·                       JTrifoliudmioidoersnithopo*-l  *
                                        *
                                                                                             *
                                        ·         *             ,, maritimum                 **
                                                                ,, scabrum
Lychnis dioica a & |3*                  *                                                             *
                                        *
                              *                   *                                          **
Sagina marithna                         *                       ,, fragiferum                          *
Arenaria ciliata N. & W.                *
                     N.    &            *                                                      *
,, vciiia                     S.        *                       Medicago maculata ...          *
Cerastium arvense
                              *
                              *
Stclluria glauca

             Lmete.                                             Rosacea.
Linum angustifolium *
                                                                Spinea Filipendula ...         *
                                                                                               *
                                                                                               *
                                                                ,, CliaiiiirinariiN . ...
           Geraniaceae.                                         Potenlilla fruticosa "f
Geranium sanguincum*                                                           S. W. of I.
                                        *         J*                                           *
                                        *
                                        *                       ,, argentea                  **
                                        *                                                      *
                                        *                                               **
,, pyrenaicum                 *         *                       Rosa tomentosa          *
,, lucidum                    *         *                         ,, micrantlia         **
                                                                  ,, arvensis
                              *
  ,, columbinum               *                   * Tormentilla rcptans ...
Erodium moschatum             *

  ,, maritimum

                                                                Onagrarue.

            Crassulacete.                                       Epilobium angustifo-1          *
 Cotyledon umbilicus                                                  liuin
                              *                   *J*
--. .
PLANTS OF DUBLIN, EDINBURGH, AND 8.W. OF SCOTLAND. 255

                     Dublin.                                                     Edinburgh.   South-west                     Dublin.  Edinburgh.  South-west
                                                                                              ofScotlamt                                          ofScotland.

          UmbeUifera.                                                                                     Tragopogon pratensis *      *           *
Crithmum maritimum *
                                                                                              *                                       *           *
Silaus pratensis N. of I.                                                                                                             *           *
                                                                                 ·                                                    *           *
                                                                                 *                                                                ·
*/(Enanthe pimpinel- 1                                                           *            *
    loides
,, Phellandrium            *                                                     *                        Boraginece.

\fHelosciadium repens...                                                         *                        */Lithospemuim mari-l       *
                                                                                                          timum
Pimpinella magna                                                                 *                                             *      *
                     S. of I.                                                    *                        ,, officinale               *
Carom vcrticillatum 1                                                                                     Symphytum officinale*       *
                                                                                 *            *                                       ·
Apinm graveolNen.s&S.J*                                                                       *           Cynoglossum officinale*
                                                                                              *
                                                                                                          Asperugo procumbens..

Ligusticum scoticum...

       SteUata.                                                                                                  Comolvulacete.
                                                                                                          Convolvulus soldanella*
                           *
Galium Mollugo
,, pusillum S. & \V.
Asperula Cynanchica,                                                                                             Polemoniacea.
                        & \V*.                                                                            Polemonium cceruleum* ·Introduced.
                    S.
Rubia  peregrina                                                                                                 Phmbaginea.

Caprifoliaceee.                                                                                           Statice Limonium    *                   *
                                                                                                            ,, spathulata     *                   *

Campanulace/p.                                                                                                       Ericea.                      *
                                                                                                          Andromeda polifolia *
Campanula rapuncu- 1                                                             *
                                                                                                          Menziesia polifolia, 1
,, latifolia, Mid. C.                                                            *
                                                                                 *                                   JW. of I.

  ,, Trachelium         * ·<                                                     * Ferhapi                Erica mediterranea,
  ,, hederacea           *                                                       introduced.
                                                                                                                    \W. ofl.J
Jasione montana
                                                                                                            ,, Mackaiana, W.ofl.
                                                                                                          Arbutus Unedo, S. of I.

                                                                                 ·

                           *                                                                  * Pyrolacea.

       Falerianete.                                                                                       jPyrola media, Down 1       *

                           *                                                                  *                              & Derry
                                                                                                          ,, minor, Northern 1
Fedia dentata                                                                    *                                  Counties and V    *
f,, auricula, W. of 1                                                            *
                 I.  Bab.
           rubra           *                                                                                ,, secunda, Derry]        *
Valeriana
                                                                                                                 Jand Antrim...
           Composite.
                                                                                                          Monotropa hypopitys *
Limbardacrithmoides
Erigeron acris             *                                                     *            *           Genlianete.
                           *                                                     *            *
                                                                                 *            * Exacum filiforme, Kerry
                                                                                 *            *           Gentiana verna, W. of I.
,, maritima                *                                                     *                                            *
                                                                                 *                        Chlora perfoliate
CCHare,,,,erldmpuisinutmetsbhaniirueaniianufnlntouaeirsnscuhss,ioNid.e&s W****.               *

                                                                                                          Solanete.

Pieria hieracioides.rare*                                                                     * Solanum Dulcamara * * » Probably
                                                                                                                                                                < ntroduced.
256 SIXTH REPORT -- 183G.

                     Dublin.     Edinburgh.    South-weit                           Dublin. Edinburgh. oSfoSutcho, tiwaejxrit.
                                               ofScotland.

        Prtonvlacea.          *  »                                    Resedacea.     *           *
                              *  ·                          Re"sedfarultuicteualosa  *
Primula elatior                  ·
   ,, veris
                                 *
Centunculusminimus, 1                          * Euphorbiacece.
                                 *
        N. & S. of I. J                                     JEuphorbia hiberna, 1
Lysimachia Iliyrsifiora..                                           S. &N.           of I. *
                                                                                           *               *
Hottonia      palustris, "1                                 ,,  paralia                                    *
    Jnear DoWnpatrick                                       ,,  Portlandica                                *
                                                                                                 *

    Lentibularie.                                           J,, amygdaloiSde.os,fl. "1

JPinguecula grandiflo- 1                                    Mercurialis annua         *          *

             ra, S.    of I.  *
    lusitanica
,,                                             * Conjfera.

      Scrophuiarinea.                                       Taxus baccata,var. fruc-
Veronica Buxbaumii . .
Bartsia viscosa, S. of I.        ·             *                tu flavo, lately ob
                                               *                served near Dublin
                                                                in cultivation.               1
Sibthorpia europsea, 1
               S. of I. J
Scrophularia                             *                             Aroidete.      *          *
              vernalis...        ·Naturalized               Arum maculatum

    Orobancliece.                                               Typhacete.

Orobanche minor               *  *                                                            · Probably
                                 *                                                            Introduced.
,, rubra,            N. of I.                               Typha angustifolia...    «
                                 *
Latbnea squamaria, 1             *             * ,, /3 minor                          *
              S.ofl./            *
                                 *
         Verbenacea.          *  ·                                     Atitmaceee.   *                     *
Verbena officinalis              *                          Alisma natans
                                 *
            Labiatir.            *                              Orchidea.                                  *
Salvia verbenaca
                              *  *                          Orchis pyramidalis       *           *         *
                                                                                                           *
                                 *                          Gymnadcnia conopsea*                 ·         *
                                                                                                 *         *
Galeobdolon luteum *             *                          Habcnaria Chlorantha*                          *
                                                                                                 *         *
                                               ·
                                                                                     *
Nepeta cataria                '                * Ophrys apifera
Galcopsis Ladanum                                                                      *
                              *                *            Neottia spiralis         ...         *
                                                            Corallorhiza innata                  *
Thymus Calamintha             *                             Listera cordata           *          *
Origanum vulgare              *
                                                                                     *           *
Lainium intermedium                                         Epipactis palustris      *           *
                                                              ,, latifolia

          Polygene*.                                        Malaxis paludosa         *           *
Polygonum Raii
                              *                *

                                                                Amaryllidete.

                                                            Narcissus biflorus       * Introduced.

    Chenopodete.

Chenopodium olidum            *                                 Atphodelea.
Atriplex portulacoides        *
                                               *            Allium arenarium         *           *
PLANTS OF DUBLIN, KDINDUKGII, AND S.W. OK SCOTLAND. 257

                      Dublin.    Edinburgh.  South-west                         Dublin.  Edinburgh.  South-west
                                             of Scotland                                             ofScotland.

Allium carinatum           *                 *               Carex extensa        *       *          *
Scilla vema                *                                                      *       ·          *
                                                             ,, distans                   *          *
                                                             ,, limosa           N.      *
                                                                                                     *
Smilacete.                                                                               *           *
                                                                                         *           *
                                 »                                                       *
                                                                                         *           *
                                                                   Filices.              *
                                                                                                     *
             Butomece,                                       JPolypodium                 ·
                                                                       ear.
Butomus umbellatus * * Introduced                                  vulgare* 1            *
                                                                                      *
            Junceee.                                         Aspidium angtilare       *  *
                                                                ,, lobatum               *
Juncus acutus                                                Asplenium marimun *         *
  ,, niaritimus        *
                       *                     *               ,, septentrionale ...

          Graminets.                         *               Trichomanes brevise- "
Calai nagrostis cpigejos.                    *
                                                                 turn,* rare ; more
Hordeum maritinium     *         *           *                  plentiful at Killar-
                       *         »
   ,, pratensc         *         *                           ney.
Triticum loliaceum     *                                     JHymenophyllum Wil- 1
Rotthollia filiformia            *                           soni *               *

                                                             ,, Tunbridgense

Cyperaceee.                                                  Ophioglossum vulgatum

Rynchospora fusca, 1
fBlysmus
        S.            & W. *     *                                  Lycopodiacea.
rufus                            *                           Lycopodium inundatum

Schoeniis nigricans    *         **                          Marrileacem.
Scirpus Savii
                       *                           *         Isoetes lacustris   *

Eriophorum pubcscens*              J · John                  Pilularia globulifera ....
                                                Mackav.
/Cladium mariscus, 1                                                   Eqtasetaceee.
                   S. & W.       *                           Equisetum variegatum*
Carex curta,          N. & S*.   ·
  ,, axillaris                *

  ,, strigosa

Comparative geographical notices of the more remarkable
Plants which characterize Scotland and Ireland. Read at
the Bristol            J.MTee. tiMngackoafyt,heMB.Rri.tIis. hA.,AAss.oLc.iSat.i,onfy, c.
1836. By                                                                                  August,

Although the Flora of Ireland cannot boast of so great a
number of species as the neighbouring island, still there are
several very remarkable circumstances which attract our atten
tion when we contrast the vegetation of Ireland with that of
Great Britain.
                                                          s
   vol, v. -- 1836.
258 SIXTH REPORT -- 1836.

If, in the first place, we compare the vegetation of Ireland
with that of Scotland, we find that climate has exercised a power
ful influence. Ireland is situated more to the south than Scot
land, and its mountains are not so high; it is also more exposed
to the Western Ocean, hence its climate is more characterized by
moisture : Scotland is therefore much more rich in Alpine plants
than Ireland, as the following list of those found in Scotland
and not in Ireland will show. On the other hand the mildness
of the Irish climate is perhaps the cause why plants are found
on the western coast whose relative habitats are the mountains of

Spain and Portugal. It is, however, difficult to account for the
localities of a few plants as they occur in Ireland. Thus Heli-
anthemum vulgare, so common in Scotland and England, al
though one of the first plants that presents itself to our view
on the rocks about Portpatrick, has not yet been found in Ire
land unless in the Island of Arran on the western coast ; and

Astragalus hypoglottis, so common about Edinburgh and else
where in  Scotland, is in Ireland confined
          also not be unworthy of remark,   to the same locality.
  It may
                                            that Armaria verna,
which grows on the basaltic rocks of Arthur's Seat, is found on

the same kind of rock at Magillegan, County of Derry. I have,
Ihowever, specimens of the same plant from the west coast of

Clare, where the rocks are, as far as have observed, composed
of limestone.

List of some of the more remarkable Alpine and other plants

               of Scotland which are not found in Ireland :

Veronica alpina       Juncus filiformis

     ,, saxatilis        ,, biglumis
Eriophorum capitatum     ,, triglumis
                         ,, trifidus
Alopecurus alpinus        ,, castaneus
Phleum alpinum
                         ,, tenuis
     ,, Michelii      Luzula arcuata
Aira alpina
Hierochloe borealis      ,, spicata
Avena planiculmis     Trientalis europoea
Poa laxa              Menziesia coerulea
                      Vaecinium uliginosum
Cornus suecica        Epilobium alpinum

Myosotis alpestris           ,, alsinifolium
Primula scotica       Polygonum viviparuni
                      Pyrola uniflora
     ,, farinosa      Arbutus alpina
Azalea procumbens     Saxifraga nivalis
Gentiana nivalis
                             ,, cernua
Sibbaldia procumbens         ,, rivularis
Meum Athamanticum
Juncus balticus
        REMARKABLE PLANTS OF SCOTLAND AND IRELAND.                           259

Soxifraga pedatifida                              Draba rupestria
Arenaria rubella                                 Arabia petraea
                                                 Sonchus alpinus
        ,, fastigiata                            Hieracium alpinum
Cherleria sedoidea
Lychnis alpina                                          ,, Halleri
                                                 Erigeron alpinum
      ,, viscaria                                Astragalus alpinus
Cerastium alpinum                                Oxytropis campestris

       ,, latifolium                                    ,, Uralensis
Nuphar minima                                    Ononis reclinata
Bartsia alpina
Linnsea boreal is

of  Geographical notices of several                         plants found in Ireland, most
    which have not yet been found                           in England or Scotland :

EPirnicgauimcueldaitegrrraannedaij,lorWa,esSt ooufthIreolfanIrde,laWndes, teSronutPhyroenf eFersa.nceE. . Machaii,

                   Hooker in Companion to Botanical Magazine*
   ,, Mackiana, Bab. West of Ireland, Spain.
Arbutus unedo, South of Ireland, South of Europe.
Menziesia polifolia, West of Ireland, Spain, Pyrenees and Portugal.
Arenaria cilia'ta, Sligo Mountains, Swiss Alps.
Saxifraga Geum, South of Ireland, Western Pyrenees.

      ,, hirsuta, South of Ireland, Western Pyrenees.
      ,, umbrosa, 2 varieties, South, West and North of Ireland,

    ,,  aelfPefyignraeinsns,e,eFsFl..l.   Bib.,   South of  Ireland,  rare.
    ,,                                   Hib.,   South of   Ireland.
        hirUi, Fl. Hib., South of Ireland.
    ,,
Rosa Hibernica, North of Ireland.
Arabis ciliata, West of Ireland, Switzerland.
Hypericum calycinum, South of Ireland near Killarney, and coast of
                  Clare, in hedges ; South of Europe.
Ulex strictus, (which is probably only a variety of U. europaus,) North

                of Ireland, sparingly.
Neottia gemmipara, South of Ireland, rare, Drummond.
Taxus baccata, var. hibernica, ( Taxus fastigiata, Lindley,) North of

                   Ireland and Florencecourt, cultivated.
Carex Buxbaumii, North of Ireland, North of Europe, North

                   America.
Eriocaulon septangulare, West coast of Ireland, Island of Sky, Scot

        land.

Trichomanes brevisetum. Found in several places near Killarney
        Iin considerable abundance, and very sparingly in the
        County of Wicklow.                       have specimens of this Fern col
        lected in Madeira by the late Doctor Shuter.
                       261

Report of the London Sub-Committee of the British Associa
tion Medical Section,  on the Motions  and Sounds of the
Heart.

The Committee of Members of the British Association resident

in London who have been charged with the investigation of the
motions and causes of the sounds of the heart, have held nu

merous meetings, and performed a considerable variety of expe
riments, on living and on dead subjects, with a view to the ends
of their appointment. They have also taken pains to inform
themselves of the facts and reasonings published by preceding
inquirers, and have now the honour to submit to the Section

the results at which they have hitherto arrived, together with
such particulars of their experiments as they consider necessary
to substantiate their conclusions.

    Before entering, however, upon the statement of their experi
ments or of the conclusions to which they lead, they beg leave
to say a few words with regard to the scope and plan of their
inquiries, and the spirit in which they have entered on them.
The Committee would first remark, that though in their in
quiries they did not neglect to take note of any phenomena
which might illustrate the action of the diseased heart, yet
they have felt it their especial duty to investigate the physiolo
gical branch of the subject, and have principally occupied them
selves with that part which includes the normal sounds of the
heart. In thus limiting the field of research, it will be sufficient
perhaps to remind the Section that they have pretty closely fol
lowed the example of the Dublin Committee of last year.

   With regard to the spirit and general views by which they
have been guided they wish to observe, that in entering upon the
investigation it seemed to them possible a priori that each sound
of the heart might have a single peculiar cause, or several co- ope
rating causes ; and if several co-operating causes should be found
more probable, that then some of such causes might be only con
tingent or occasional, and others constant and invariably present;
also, upon the supposition of a plurality of causes of one or both
sounds, that some causes might be common to both sounds, or
that each sound might have its own set of causes exclusively.
Keeping in view those several possible a priori positions, the
Committee made an enumeration of the circumstances attending

the heart's action that had been, or might be, supposed capable
of producing sound, and endeavoured so to vary their experiments
as to exclude in turn each of those circumstances, with a viev
2G2 SIXTH REPORT-- 1836.

to isolate or at least to bring sufficiently into relief the essen
tial cause or causes of each sound. To the execution of the
plan of experimental inquiry thus glanced at, the Committee
have devoted some time during the summer, in the course
of which they have had to encounter numerous difficulties,
especially from the want of sure means of destroying the sensi
bility of the animal, without suspending or greatly impairing
the action of the heart. And in this respect they have been
much less fortunate than several preceding experimentalists,
having in no one of the numerous subjects on which they have
operated, been able to continue their observations for a longer

period than forty-five minutes, notwithstanding the utmost care
rtoespaivroaitdionu.nneIctesissapryropleorsstoofadbdlo, otdhatantdhetosumbjeacintstaionf   artificial
                                                                                          these ob

servations were in most instances young asses from three to six
months old, in apparently good health, and that the mode of
preparation was in a few instances poisoning with woorara, in
others stunning by a blow on the head, but in a majority of
the experiments the animal was pithed. Other animals were
tried as well as young asses, viz. the horse, the dog, and the
domestic fowl ; but for various reasons these trials were not

attended with results recommending their repetition.

The Committee consider the most convenient order in which

to state the facts in their possession, and their inferences from
those facts, to be, to describe first succinctly, and from the origi
nal notes taken on the spot, such of their experiments as gave
available results; then briefly to arrange, under the head of each
supposed or possible cause, such points in the experiments as
may seem to the Committee to make decidedly in favour of or
against the claims of each of such possible causes ; and lastly,
to give a summary of the conclusions which the Committee
                   the whole of their
have adopted from  Exjjeriments, 8fc.  i--nqTuhireiesC. ommittee                          made

   Memoranda of
some observations in the first instance on their own persons.
To satisfy themselves fully as to how far the sounds might be
modified by circumstances, such as the state of the lungs,
whether distended or collapsed ; the state of the circulation,
whether excited or tranquil ; and the position of the body ; the
Committee examined the heart in their own persons under all
those varieties of circumstance, and found, that when the sub
ject of observation is supine or leaning a little backwards to
wards the right side, the first sound is uniform, dull, and with

out any easily perceptible impulse; but the subject leaning

forwards, and especially if inclining much to the left side, the
          ON THK MOTIONS AND SOtJNDS OP THE HEART.          268

first sound is louder and fuller-toned, and accompanied by strong
impulse. They found also that full inspiration operated like
leaning to the right, or the supine position, by diminishing
sound and impulse, while full expiration like leaning forwards,
or to the left side, rendered the sounds and impulse more di
stinct, the former louder, the latter stronger and more dif
fused. When the heart's action is excited by exertion they
found, as might be anticipated, the systolic sound and impulse
at their maximum of tone and force. Moderate exertion they
observed to increase the intensity of both sounds ; whereas sud
den exertion, sufficiently violent greatly to accelerate the action
of the heart, they found impaired the distinctness of the second
sound, the first continuing loud, short, and with strong impulse.
   The indistinctness of the second sound in rapid pulsation of
the heart, seemed to depend in part on its following so closely
on the loud first sound as to be masked by it.
   Experiment 2. -- The Committee made experiments likewise
on muscular contraction in their own persons, with a view to
ascertain how far that act is accompanied by sound. The mus
cles operated on with the best effect were the buccinator and
masseter, the muscles of the neck and fore-arm, and of the pa-

rietes of the abdomen. In all those the flexible ear- tube, care
fully applied so as to prevent friction, yielded sounds more or
less striking ; but the most striking results were obtained from
                    of paar"ts.sysFtorolimc"  the abdominal muscular con
the last-mentioned                            character (if the expression is
tractions, sounds

admissible) in all respects, and as loud or louder than those of
the heart, were with facility obtained : the sounds were excited
by sudden expiratory efforts made with force, and with the
mouth closed, and were obtained from various parts of the pa-
rietes. The sound of muscular contraction seems in the case

of the abdominal muscles to be exaggerated by the hollowness

of the subjacent parts.

   At the time the sound was heard the muscle under observa
tion always felt to the finger tense and hard, but the loud sound
ceased at the moment that the fibres had attained their maxi

mum of tightness and hardness, and was not renewed except by
   repetition of  the contractile   effort after            relaxation.
a   Experiment    3. -- Subject, a  young ass     previous  with woorara
                                                  poisoned
introduced into an incision in the flank.
   The animal died sixteen minutes after the introduction of the

woorara ; much blood was lost in opening the chest ; the heart
was acting at the moment of exposure, but not strongly. Its
action became more regular after inflation was made more re

gularly.
2G4 SIXTH REPORT- 1836.

Both Bounds were heard with the instrument applied to the
great arteries ; but the sound with impulse or first sound alone

was heard on the ventricles.

The heart could not, the Committee were satisfied, strike

against the chest's walls, or any other hard object.
   After opening the pericardium the sounds were weaker ;

but both sounds were heard with the stetheseope applied to
t he roots of the great arteries. Both sounds were heard also
on the great arteries where a portion of lung was interposed be
tween the instrument and the vessels.

TEhxepehreimaretncton4t.in--ueSdubjteocta, ct  for forty  minutes.      as the last.
                                               a young    ass prepared

Death twenty-six minutes after poisoning.

   At the roots of the great arteries the two sounds were di
stinctly heard, but after the introduction of two curved awls into
the arteries (for the purpose of hooking up one lamina of each
sigmoid valve) the second sound was wanting, the first being
still distinct; on withdrawing the awls two sounds were heard,

and soon after the heart ceased to act, twenty minutes after the
death of the animal. At each systole while the heart acted

vigorously, the ventricles felt to trie finger as hard as cartilage.
The heart being cut out and plunged in warm salt and water,
a slight undulatory contractile motion pervaded the substance
of the ventricles and columnar carneie and continued for some
time. In this and every other observation the vermicular or
undulatory motion supervened upon the cessation of the normal
action of the organ, and never before the organ had ceased to
act as a whole.

   Experiment 5. -- Subject, a donkey seven months old, which
expired forty-three minutes after being poisoned with woorara.
   The heart just before death was heard with short loud pulsa
tions ; when the chest was opened, it ceased to beat, and was
very much distended with blood. When part of the blood was
let out by cutting the pulmonary artery, the ventricles began
again to pulsate feebly, but without sound. When the heart
was cut out it presented the undulatory motion, which was in
creased by immersion in cold water. The two ventricles being
opened by cuts at the apex at right angles to the septum, and the
heart being drawn with the apex upwards through water, the
laminae of the mitral and tricuspid valves were seen to close to

gether each time the heart was so drawn upwards through the
water.

   Experiment 6. -- Subject, a young ass destroyed by pithing.
   On opening the chest the heart acted regularly, producing
both sounds distinctly : curved awls were then introduced into
     ON THE MOTIONS AND SOUNDS OF THE HEART.                                 265

the aorta and pulmonary artery to hook back the valves, when
the second sound was replaced by a sucking or bellows sound.
The awls being withdrawn both sounds were again heard, the

heaErxt paecritminegnfteebJ.ly--. Subject, a young ass.    A small quantity of
vvoorara was introduced into the flank, but without destroying
life, and the animal was despatched by a blow on the head.
Heart acting very quickly and strongly when the chest was
opened ; first sound only audible.
The auricles being pushed in by the fingers into the ventricles
so as to keep the valves open, the first or impulse sound only
heard ; the second sound wanting. On withdrawing the fingers
from the auricles both sounds were audible, the heart acting
more slowly but yet strongly. The roots of the arteries being
compressed between the fingers and stethescope, the first or im
pulse sound only heard, accompanied by a loud bellows or rasp
sound. On removing
sounds again audible.  the  pressure (from the             arteries) both
                            incision being then            made into the
                       An

left auricle, a finger was passed through the auriculo-ventricular
orificeto the bottom of the left ventricle, and the fingers of the
other hand being placed under the right ventricle, and the heart

compressed between the hands so as to obliterate the cavity, the
first or impulse  8s.o--unAdnwimaas l,stiall               heard by all, but weak.
   Experiment                                  distinctly  destroyed by stunning.
                                              young ass
The heart at first acted convulsively, as from great exertion,
but afterwards nearly normally slowly for a short time. While

the heart's action was quick no second sound was heard, but
after it became slow both sounds were heard, and shortly after
                                                           for observation.
its   action became  --tooSufebejebclet,  and irregular      Poisoning by    intro
     Experiment 9.                         a young ass.
duction of twenty-four drops of an inefficient preparation of
coneia into the peritoneum : unsuccessful. Animal ultimately
pithed. On opening the chest the heart distinctly audible as to
both sounds, and in vigorous action. The fingers were pushed
into the auricles and through the auriculo-ventricular orifices,
when a first sound was heard prolonged by a whizzing sound.
   On withdrawing the fingers both normal sounds were heard ;
needles were then introduced to hook up a lamina of the sigmoid
valves of the aorta, when the second sound was heard by two

observers.

     The pulmonary sigmoids were also attempted to be so treated
(the aorta valves being continued under the needle), when two
observers heard the two sounds, but not the third observer.

    Note. -- The Committee were uncertain how far the hooking
up of the valves was really effected owing to want of strength in
286 SIXTH REPORT 183G.

the needles. They were not afterwards able, as in other cases,
where curved awls were used, to find the marks of the needles

so  as to ascertain the direction  in which they had  passed.
    Experiment 10. -- Subject, a   young ass pithed.  Chest imme

diately opened, when the heart was acting slowly, but forcibly.
Atfirstnosecond sound was heard, but a bellows sound (instead);
then a violent action was attended with a single sound, accom

panied by a bellows sound, which (latter) ceased as the heart
became more slow in action, after which both sounds became
distinct ; then, the arteries being pressed with the fingers at their
origins, a first sound was heard, with a blowing murmur accom
panying and another (murmur) following, but no flapping (or
second) sound. On removing the pressure (from the arteries)
the second sound was heard and the murmur ceased. Imme

diately after the systole a flapping or jerking sensation was sen
sible to the finger applied to the arteries at their roots.
    The inversion of the auricles was accompanied by a sensation of
thrilling in the finger of the operator. The auriculo-ventricular
valves were found to act in water after the removal of the heart from

theEbxopdeyr,imcelonsting11o.n--itSs ubbejinegct,draawyonunagpexasuspwpaoridsosnethdrouwgihth  water.

                                                                                                oil of

bitter almonds.

  A small opening was made in the cartilages opposite the

heart, when the stroke was perceived, and felt by the finger in
side and outside the sternum at the same time, with sound, and

with considerable pressure upwards against the finger placed

between the heart and cartilages.
    The chest and pericardium were then opened, which latter had
a little serum in it. After turning over the animal on its left side,
so as to make the heart hang vertically (out of the chest), a first
sound was heard through the tube applied to the ventricles, but
no second sound by either observer. The same sound was
heard on the right auricle posteriorly without the second sound :
the heart acted both times weakly. The tube being applied to
the roots of the arteries gave the same result to one observer, i. e.,
a first without a second sound. The animal being again laid on

his right side the first sound was heard by two observers. Cir
cumstances prevented the third member of the Committee from
ausculting during this experiment, which was not repeated.
   Experiment 12. -- Subject as above, and pithed.
    Heart acted thirty-three minutes. On opening the chest the
two sounds were heard, the heart acting slowly and with tole

rable force.

The auricles were then inverted by the fingers, and the first
sound, continued into a bellows murmur, was heard. The mur
           ON THE MOTIONS AND SOUNDS OF TUB HEART.                        267

mur was accompanied by a thrilling motion, sensible to the

finger of the operator, and synchronous with the impulse. A
lamina of each sigmoid valve was then hooked up (with dissect
ing hooks), when a sound was heard not followed by a second
sound, but on removing the hooks the second sound was again
heard.
On inverting the auricles again the chordre tendinere of the
mitral valve               felt to become tense in systole
in diastole.  alone were  being introduced into the left                   and lax
                                                                          ventricle
               A finger
thrEoxupgehrimtheenatur1ic3l.e--, Sthuebjfeircstt,
                                                    sound was heard with  a murmur.
                                                    a young ass, pithed.  On opening

the chest, and then the pericardium, both sounds were distinctly
heard, but feeble. On touching the arteries in the vicinity of
the valves, a sensation of flapping (or jerking) observed by all,
commencing immediately after the systole, and accompanying
the second sound.

   The awls being introduced into the arteries (so as to hook up
the valves), the second sound was wanting. After removing the
awls, at first but the systolic sound was heard, but after a short
time both were heard by all.
   On opening the heart (at the close of the experiment), the
valves were found to have been sufficiently hooked up in both

arteries.

   Exjieriment 14. -- Subject, a young ass, pithed. After open
ing the chest the pericardium was opened, and a thick layer of
tow was interposed between the heart and surrounding parts,
the heart continuing to act. At first the systolic sound was
heard, followed by a bellows murmur ; but afterwards the flap
ping sensation and second sound very distinct also.
The finger being introduced into the left ventricle by inver
sion of the auricle, was felt to be gently embraced and pushed,

as if by a membrane distended with blood. On the right side
nothing similar unequivocally observed. On pressing the aorta
o"rtopualnmdofnraor"y
                       artery between the finger     and thumb            gently, a
                                                       the systole         and dia
                       thrill was felt accompanying
stole of the ventricles, and terminated by a flap. The sensation
of flapping (or jerking) was felt to be synchronous in the two
arteries.

The tension and hardness of the ventricles during their systole

was very remarkable.
   The pulmonary artery being cut across, the first sound was
still loud, and the aorta being then cut across (likewise), the same
result was obtained (viz. a first, without a second sound) . The
heart was then severed from its other attachments, and the (first)
sound was still heard distinctly.
268 SIXTH REPORT -- 1836.

The heart was then grasped strongly under blood, and it con
tinued to contract vigorously, and the first sound was heard (but
not loud) with the  flexible tube as well  as the common                         stethe-
scope. The heart    was then taken out     and held in the
                                                                                 hand of
one of the Committee, when the first sound was distinct, but

feeble.

   On opening the right ventricle the columneae carnese were
distinctly seen contracting simultaneously with the ventricle.

   Such are the particulars of all the more successful experi

ments of the Committee, with regard to those possible causes of
the normal sounds of the heart which have been investigated by

the Committee ; the principal of them are as follows. The first
sound has been attributed to

   1 . Impulse, or the beating of the heart against the parietes of

the chest.

   2. Muscular sound, or the resonance attending sudden mus
cular contraction.

   3. Collisions of the particles of the blood amongst each other,
or against the parietes, valves, &c. of the heart's cavities.

   4. The action of the auriculo-ventricular valves during sy

stole.

   5. And the collision of the opposite interior surfaces of the
ventricles in the same state.

The normal or second sound lias been attributed to

1. Impulse of the heart against the thoracic parietes, owing
to its rapid expansion during diastole.

   2. An intrinsic sound attending the diastole, analogous to that

which the observations of the Committee prove to attend the
systolic action of the ventricles.
   3. Flapping of the auriculo-ventricular valves during dia

stole against the sides of the ventricles.

   4. The rushing offluids into the great arteries after the sy

stole.

   5. The rushing of the fluids from the auricles into the ven

tricles during diastole.

6. Sudden tension and flapping of the sigmoid valves after
the systole.

   Of the causes to which the first sound has been attributed, the
Committee feel it necessary to notice each separately, except the
last. With regard to the alleged causes, however, of the second
sound, they will feel themselves justified in being less minute,
partly to avoid tiresome repetitions, but principally on account
of the obvious preponderance of evidence, as the Committee con
                   --ofVtahelvuthleaorryTelansstiomne. --ntioTnoedb. egin
ceive, in  favour                                                          with  the  firsT
           Sound
   First
          ON THE MOTIONS AND SOUNDS OF THE HEAHT.  gffi)

sound.    It  is well  known that several eminent  writers have at
tributed  it  to the   sudden closure and tension  of the auriculo-

ventricular valves during the systole. With reference to that
question, the Committee have made the following observations :
1. Inverting the auricles, and passing the finger into the au-
riculo- ventricular orifices, does not prevent  the first sound, though
it must prevent the action of the valves.       Experiments 5, 8, &c.
                                                the action of the mi
   2. In the experiments just referred to,
tral valve, as felt by the finger, was of too gradual and feeble a
kind to be capable of producing sound ; while on the right side
the tightening of the tricuspid was not strong enough to be sen
sible to the finger at all.
    3. Various instances where the ventricles were treated so as
to obliterate their cavities by pressure, and render valvular ac
tion impossible, gave, nevertheless, the first sound. Experi
ments 6, 7, &c.

    From these facts the Committee conclude that valvular action
is not a cause of the first sound.

   First Sound -- Collision in the Fluids, Sfc--The following are

the facts observed by the Committee with regard to the alleged
resonant collisions of the particles of blood amongst themselves,
or against the parietes, valves, &c. of the ventricles.
   1 . The obstruction of the auriculo-ventricular orifices by the
fingers introduced by inverting the auricles does not materially
modify the first sound. Experiments 5, 8, &c.
   2. The heart being pressed between a finger introduced through
the auricle to the bottom of the left ventricle, and the other hand
placed outside the right ventricle, continued still to emit the first
sound. Experiments 5 and 12.
3. The heart being grasped firmly in the hand, after separation
from its attachments, and while immersed in blood, gave the first
sound distinctly. The pressure in this case must, in the opinion
of the Committee, have prevented collision between the opposite
interior surfaces of the organ.
4. The division of the aorta and pulmonary artery, and even
the extraction of the heart, does not prevent the first sound.
Experiment 12.
5. The Committee made also various experiments in order to
ascertain the power of fluids to produce sound when in contact
with solids.
On compressing by the stethescope the gum elastic bottle
filled with water, and under water, they could not succeed in
producing any other sound than a bellows sound. The power of
obstructed currents of liquid to produce the various modifica
tions of the bellows sound was further illustrated to the Com
270 SIXTH REPORT -- 1836.

mittee in several experiments on animals, in which pressure of
the arteries, partial obstruction of the auriculo-ventricular ori
fices, and suspension of the action of the sigmoid valves, were
repeatedly accompanied by this phsenomenon. The thrill ac
companying this sonorous passage of liquid was in every case

sensible to the finger.

   6. To this we may add that the experiments of MM. Pigeaux
and Piorry have been repeated by the Reporter in the presence
and with the assistance of Dr. Edwin Harrison, and other gen
tlemen not of the Committee ; but in no instance of several trials

was anything like the first sound produced.
From the preceding facts the Committee conclude that the
normal first sound of the heart is in no degree referable to any
collisions of the particles of the fluids amongst themselves or
          tSheoupnadri--eteIms, p&ucls.e.o--f thTehevefnactrtisclerse.lating
against                                                                       to  the  connexion

   First
of impulse with the first sound that are contained in the pre
ceding experiments, are the following :

   In a variety of circumstances in which it is difficult to see
how impulse could occur to cause sound, the systolic sound was
distinctly audible, viz.
   1 . When the heart lay exposed, deprived of its pericardium,
and supported by the mediastinum alone, as in Experiment 1.
2. When the heart was held between the fingers with some
force of pressure, the left side cavities being empty, or nearly
so, as in Experiment 5.
3. When the heart was imbedded in tow. Experiment 14.
4. When the heart hung out of the thorax by its vessels, re
moved from all contact to which sound might be referred, as in

Experiment 9.

   Note. In the four experiments just referred to the instrument

was applied to the arteries near their roots.
5. When the heart was severed from all its attachments, and
grasped strongly in the hand, as in Experiment 12. On the
other hand, several facts show that the impulse against the ribs
may produce sound.

   6. In Experiment 11, and in others in the memoranda of
which the fact has been omitted, the heart during systole was
felt, both outside and inside the chest, to press with force against
the sternum and cartilages.

   7. In our observations on the effects of posture we remarked
that leaning to the left or forwards gave additional force to the
impulse and loudness to the sound; while inclination of the body,
such as to cause the heart to gravitate away from the ribs, di
minished at once the sound and impulse.
         ON THE MOTIONS AND SOUNDS OF THE HEAIIT.  271

   8. To those we may add the facts pointed out by Dr. Spittal,
which have been repeated and verified by the Reporter, assisted
by Dr. Edwin Harrison and other gentlemen not of the Com
mittee, and which seem to prove that if the living heart impinge
with any force upon the walls of the thorax sound must result.
From the whole of those facts, the Committee conclude that
impulse is not the principal cause of the first sound, but that it
is an auxiliary and occasional cause, nearly null in quietude and
in the supine posture, but increasing very considerably the sound

of FthierstsysStooulendin--oMpuposscituelarcirTcuemnssitoann.c--es.The facts ascertained by
the Committee relating directly to muscular tension as a pos
sible cause of the first sound, are few but striking, and in their

judgement decisive.
1. The heart in systole becomes suddenly, from a compara
tively soft and flaccid body, extremely tense, and to the touch
hard as cartilage. Experiments 2 and 12, and many others, in
which the fact was not recorded.

2. The unvarying and uniform character of the systolic sound,
however diversified the circumstances in which the heart was

placed, furnishes a strong argument in favour of its intrinsic

nature.

3. The voluntary muscles, when suddenly contracted, become
tense and hard, and emit sounds resembling strikingly the first
sound of the heart. This is especially observable in the action
of the abdominal muscles. Experiment 14.
4. From those experimental facts, taken along with the self-
evident fact, that the muscular tension thus experimentally
proved to be sonorous is an essential part, and, as it were, the
first stage of full muscular contraction, the Committee conclude
that the first sound of the heart is, for the most part, a physical
result of the sudden transition of the ventricles from a flaccid
condition to a state of extreme tension ; that in a word the first

sound is essentially a muscular sound.  --We  now  proceed  to
   Second Normal Sound of the Heart.
the consideration of the normal second sound, and of the hypo
theses that have been or might be advanced respecting it, and
the facts we possess that throw light on its causes and mechanism.
The Committee had proceeded but a short way in their expe
rimental inquiries when they found the conclusion forced on
them that the majority of the hypotheses (above
regarding the second sound were wholly untenable.  enInumseormateedo) f

their first experiments they found that the second sound might
be absent, although the first sound was present, and the systolic
212 SIXTH REPORT 1836.

and diastolic actions were quite normal. The second sound, for

example, was suppressed by
1. Pressure on the roots of the arteries.
2. By hooking up a valve of each set of sigmoids.
   3. By suspending the heart out of the chest.
   4. By inverting the auricles, &c. (see Exp. passim), the first
sound and alternate ventricular actions continuing unaffected in
any material degree in each case. Such facts, of which there
are many in the account of the experiments, seemed to the Com
mittee quite incompatible with any other hypothesis respecting
the second sound than the last, viz. that which refers it to the

action of the semilunar valves. Besides, several of those hy

potheses appeared liable to the weighty preliminary objection
that they are wholly arbitrary, and without any foundation, so
far as the Committee have been able to ascertain, in accurate

observations or experiments.  Under those impressions the
Committee think it best to proceed at once to state the facts
which in their opinion tend to establish the action of the sigmoid
valves to be the cause of the normal second sound. In this some
repetition perhaps may be necessary, but will, it is hoped, be ex

cused.

The following experiments were made with especial reference
to the mechanism of the second sound.

1 . Pressure with the finger and thumb was exerted on the ar

teries close to the sigmoid valves, so as to flatten the tubes a
little, and the second sound, previously clear, and in every re
spect normal, was immediately suppressed, and a bellows mur
mur was heard instead : this murmur ceased, and the normal

sound returned instantly on the removal of the fingers. Eperi-

me2n.tsA7daengdree10o.f pressure sufficient, it was conceived, to change,
but very slightly, the shapes of the vessels, gave to the finger
sensations of currents moving in opposite directions ; the one
current more striking, and coinciding with the systole ; the other
less forcible and synchronous witli the diastole, and ending
suddenly by a sensation of flapping or jerking. Experiment 14.
3. The fingers being applied gently to the region of the sig
moid valves, and the ear-tube applied to the heart, the flapping
sound was heard, and a sensation of a gentle tap was felt by the

finger, in coincidence with the diastole and second sound. Ex

periments 10 and 14.
4. One valve of each set of sigmoids was hooked up in each ar
tery successively, and the jerking motion invariably ceased, with
one apparent exception only, and continued suppressed in the
ON THE MOTIONS AND SOUNDS OF THE HEART.                                              273

artery in which a valve had been so hooked up. If a valve in
one artery only was so engaged, the second sound was weakened ;
but if a valve of each set of sigmoids was fixed, then the second
sound wholly disappeared. In some instances there was a mur
mur of the sucking or blowing kind following the systole during
the suspension of the valve ; in other instances there was absence
of sound simply. Experiments 4, 6, 12, 13.
5. The arteries were cut across close to the sigmoid valves,
the veins being left entire, and the heart beating with consider
able force ; the ear-tube was then applied, but gave only one
sound, and that one coincident with the systole. Experiment 14.
   6. In the separated heart the first sound was repeatedly ob
served, but the  sCeocnocnldusisoonusn. d--ne1.veTr.he
                                                        first sound  of the  heart,  as
   Summary of
heard in the chest, is generally complex in its nature, consisting
of one constant or essential sound, and one perceptible only under
certain circumstances ; this constiint element of the first sound
may be considered as intrinsic, appearing to depend on the sud
den transition of the ventricles from a state of flaccidity in dia
stole to one of extreme tension in systole ; while the extrinsic or
subsidiary sound, which generally accompanies and increases the
intrinsic sound, arises from the impulse of the heart against the
parietes, chiefly of the thorax.
2. The collisions of the particles of the blood amongst each
other, or against the interior parietes, valves, &c. of the heart,
do not appear to have any share in the normal first sound of the
heart; neither do the motions of the auriculo-ventricular valves ;
and the attrition of the opposite interior surfaces of the heart's

cavities seems purely hypothetical.
3. The principal, and apparently only, cause of the second
normal sound of the heart, is the sudden closure of the sigmoid
valves by the columns of blood that recoil back on them during
the diastole, impelled by the elastic contraction of the arteries.
4. The columnae carneae appear to act simultaneously with the
parietes of the ventricles, and in such a manner as to make it
apparently impossible that the auriculo-ventricular valves should
close with a flap, in the same manner as the sigmoid valves.
   Note. An opinion which is further confirmed by the anatomy
of the heart of the domestic cock, in which M. Bouillard appears
to have heard both sounds with the naked ear. In that animal
there is no tricuspid valve resembling that of man, but the val
vular office is discharged by laminar extensions of the substance
of the parietes of the ventricle, which meet in the middle, so as,
                                     cover the auriculo-ventricular  orifice.
duTriongcotnhcelusdyes,to--le,Thteo  Committee feel strongly that    the subject
vol. v.-- 1836.
                                     r
274 SIXTH REPORT 1836.

of the heart's motions and sounds requires further investigation,
more especially in their pathological relations, and a wider
range and greater variety of experiments than have hitherto been

performed.

            (Signed)  C. J. B. Williams, M.D. F.R.S.

                      R. B. Todd, M.D., Oxon, Professor
                            of Physiology, King's College,
                             London.
                      John Clendinning, M.D., Edin.and
                      Oxon, Fellow of the R. C. of
                      Physicians, Hon. Sec. Royal Med.
                      Chir. Society, Physician to the
                      Marylebone. Infirmary, and Re
                      porter.
        ON TUB MOTIONS AND SOUNDS OF THE HEART.                          275

Second Report of the Dublin Sub- Committee on the Motions
         and Sounds of the Heart. (See vol. iv. p. 243.)

   ^ I.--The Dublin Committee for investigating the motions

and sounds of the heart, re-appointed by the British As
sociation at their last Meeting, have considered the following
questions submitted to them by the General Committee of the
Association.

1. Whether the muscular fibres of the columnse carnese con

tract at the same precise moment as the mass of muscular fibres
of the ventricle ?

2. What is the precise mode in which the tricuspid and mitral
valves prevent the reflux of blood ? Are they floated up and
stretched across the auriculo-ventricular orifices, or drawn to

gether to a point within the cavity of the ventricle by the action
of the columns carneae ?

   In order to solve the former of these questions the Committee
have several times repeated the experiment of opening the heart,
either while within the body of the newly killed animal, or sud
denly removed from it and placed in tepid water, in the expec
tation that the movements of the fleshy columns and of the
general mass of the ventricles might be compared by inspection
and their relations as to time thus ascertained. But in every
instance it was found that the injury thus inflicted upon the
heart caused its death so rapidly that no satisfactory conclusion
could be drawn from these experiments.
   Independently of any direct experiment on this subject there
are many considerations which, in the opinion of the Committee,
serve to prove that the question now under view should be an
swered in the affirmative.

The fleshy columns which are attached to the valves, and
which have, for the sake of distinction, been called by some
"papillary muscles," differ from the other fleshy columns in the
circumstance of being connected to the substance of the ven
tricle  o"nlcyhoartdaoeneteonfdtihneeisree,"xtrbeumtittiehse,ir  while   the otheris conjoined
to the                                                           fibres   are, equally as those

of the ordinary fleshy columns, continuous with the fibres of the
general mass of the ventricles. That the ordinary fleshy columns
contract simultaneously with the systole of the ventricles there
can be no doubt, as the shortening of those columns is neces
sary to the completeness of the systole ; and as the papillary
muscles resemble the ordinary fleshy columns in the continuity
of their fibres with those of the ventricles, it is reasonable to
276 SIXTH RKPORT -- 1836.

suppose that the contractions of the former as of the latter class
of fleshy columns are synchronous with those of the general

mass. In the second place it is to be considered that if the

papillary muscles were not in a state of contraction during the
whole of the ventricular systole, the valves to which they are
attached would be driven up by the impulse of the blood into
the auriculo-ventricular openings, and thus become unfitted for
their office, as is seen in the dead heart, in which a stream of water
injected into either ventricle hy its artery, drives the valves
towards   the auricle  until  the water escapes between their edges.
          be observed  also   that in many quadrupeds, and to a cer
It is to
tain extent in the human subject, some of the tendinous cords
attached to a valve are connected to papillary muscles, while the
remainder are inserted directly into the surface of the ventricle :
but it cannot be supposed that the former set of tendons are at
rest while the latter are acted upon by the general ventricular
contraction.
   To the solution of the second question a consideration of the
manner in which the mitral and tricuspid valves are connected
with their respective papillary muscles, and of the relation of
these to the rest of the substance of the heart is necessary.
Each of these valves may be regarded as a portion of a hollow
membranous cylinder, attached by one edge around the auriculo-
ventricular opening, the other edge projecting into the ventricle
and connected to certain of the tendinous cords. The greater
number of these, however, are joined to the valve, not at its edge,
but at various points of its ventricular surface. The ventricular,
or moveable edges of those valves are extremely irregular in their
outline, being deeply notched in some parts and projecting in
others ; but as to their mode of operation each valve may be con
sidered as consisting of two flaps, a larger and a smaller one, by
the application of which to each other during the ventricular
systole the blood is prevented from regurgitating into theauricles.
The large flap of the mitral valve is placed between the orifice
of the aorta and the left auriculo-ventricular opening, nearly in
a horizontal plane, the heart being supposed to be in its natural
position, and the person in the upright posture, and may be
described in reference to the smaller flap as superior, somewhat
anterior, and a little to the right side. The smaller flap is placed

opposite to the larger, and is, with regard to it inferior, some
what posterior and a little to the left. When these flaps are in
opposition during the systole of the ventricle, the line of their
contact is of a somewhat semilunar form, and in the transverse

direction.
   The larger flap of the tricuspid valve is attached to that part of
   ON THE MOTIONS AND SOUNDS Of THK HEART.  277

the margin of the auriculo- ventricular opening which correspondsis
to the portion of the ventricle not formed by the septum, andit,
may be described, with reference to the smaller flap, as being
placed externally to and to its right side the smaller flap                                 :
connected to that portion of the margin of the opening which
corresponds to the septum, and is, with regard to the larger flap,is
internal and to the left side. When these flaps are in contact                                is
with each other during the ventricular systole, the line of their
a                              :
junction vertical, being very nearly at right angles to the ana
logous line as described in the mitral valve.a

    The papillary muscles of the mitral valve vary in number in;
different subjects, but there are always two larger than the others,
arising from the posterior wall of the ventricle, about midway;
between the apex and the base, one of which situated close toa
the septum, and the other at the external edge or part of the
posterior wall. They are somewhat flat-shaped, and are nearly
parallel to each other and to the axis of the ventricle. Each
of these papillary muscles terminates in two or three papilla? of
nearly equal length, and whose summits are about one-fourth
of an inch asunder. From these summits proceed, in radiating
form, great number of tendinous cords, which are distributed
to the flaps of the valve in the following manner those cords
which arise from the superior papilla on each side are connected
to the superior or larger flap those from the papilla on each
side, situated between the superior and inferior, are distributed
partly to the larger flap, and partly to that portion of the valve
where the larger and smaller flaps are conjoined and the cords
arising from the lowest papilla on each side are connected chiefly
to the smaller or inferior flap. Besides the two papillary mus
cles just described there are others smaller, which arise from the
posterior wall of the ventricle, nearer its base, at situation
corresponding to the attachment of the smaller flap, to which
flap the tendons proceeding from these muscles are distributed.

    In the right ventricle the papillary muscles connected with
the larger flap are three or four in number, and arise near the
apex of the ventricle by footstalks proceeding generally both
from the septum and from the external wall of the ventricle.
They are somewhat flat in shape, nearly parallel in their direc
tion to the axis of the ventricle, and placed at intervals of half
or three quarters of an inch from each other, measured along the
external wall of the ventricle, which of curved form, and
seems to be wrapped round the septum. From the papillae by
which these muscles are terminated proceed number of tendinous
cords, which are distributed in radiating manner to the surface
and margin of the larger flap. The superior part of this mar
   a
                is

                         a
                            a
278 BIXTH RKPOKT -- 1836.

gin, just where the larger and smaller flaps are about to conjoin,
receives one or two tendinous cords, which proceed directly from
the septum, without the intervention of any papillary muscle.
The smaller flap receives one or two of its tendons from the
lowest in position of those papillary muscles which have been
described as supplying the larger flap ; but all the others which
it receives, to the number of 12 or 14, proceed to it directly
from the surface of the septum, near the base, no papillary
muscle intervening.

   From an inspection of the arrangement now described it is
manifest that the papillary muscles, when they contract, draw
the tendinous cords more or less towards the axis of the respect
ive auriculo-ventricular openings ; and if it be supposed that
by any cause the flaps have been laid against the sides of the
ventricles, the contraction of the papillary muscles will remove
from such situation, or adduct towards the auriculo-ventri
cular axis, those portions of the valves to which they are con

nected.

   It is also clear that the contraction of the papillary muscles

cannot, in any instance, close the valves, or bring their flaps
into contact with each other. For when the contraction of the
papillary muscles is at its greatest, as at the end of the ventri

cular systole, if it be assumed that the cords and flaps of the

valves have been rendered tense by their action, leaving al
together out of view, for the present, the influence of the blood

upon the valves; and further, if it be supposed that the numerous

 summits of papillae, whence the cords proceed, have been
 gathered in each ventricle into a single point ; in such a state
 of things each valve and its cords will have assumed a form
 resembling an irregular funnel, of which the base is at the auri
 culo-ventricular opening, and the apex at the point of conjunc
 tion of the summits of the papillae : and it is evident that the
 opposite points of the moveable edge of each valve will be sepa
 rated from each other by spaces equal to corresponding dia
 meters of the funnel. The assumption that the summits of the
 papillae are congregated into a single point at the latter part of
 the systole is manifestly incorrect, as the swelling of the papil
 lary muscles, during contraction, will tend rather to separate
 from each other those summits which arise from the same pa
 pillary muscle ; but in order that the edges of the valves should
 be brought into contact by the action of the papillary muscles
 alone, such an arrangement of those muscles woidd be necessary
 as should cause the tendons of the opposing flaps to cross each
 other during the systole, an effect totally incompatible with the
 present construction of the organ under consideration.
    ON THE MOTIONS AND SOUNDS OF THE HEART.                 279

    It is also an erroneous assumption that the valves are ren
dered tense by the action of the papillary muscles, unaided by
the influence of the blood upon the surfaces of the valves : for,
were it true, by the time when the contraction of these muscles
is at its greatest, and for some time previous, the valves would
be held by them in an open state, as has just been proved ; and
thus during a portion of the systole, towards its end, the closing
of  the passages into the auricles would
    is accordingly inconsistent with the  be rendered incomplete.
It                                        functions of the heart

that the papillary muscles, in their state of greatest contraction,
should render the valves tense : it follows that they cannot ren
der them tense at any previous stage of contraction.

   The valves are closed by the impulse communicated to them
through the blood at the commencement of the systole; and
are prevented from separating during its continuance by the
same cause. The papillary muscles have for their office to re
gulate the position of the valves, and to prevent them from
being driven so far towards
the closing of their orifices.  the  auricles as to render  incomplete
                                     does not appear that    the action
                                 It
of the papillary muscles is at all necessary for the removal of
the flaps from the sides of the ventricles, in order that the blood

may be admitted between them at the commencement of the

systole : for in the dead heart, if water be injected into either
ventricle, through its corresponding artery, or through a hole
made in its apex, it never fails to float the valves towards the
Ifauricles, and to bring their respective flaps into close contact.

    force be used in this experiment the valves are driven into
the auriculo-ventricular openings, and the water escapes between
their edges. In this experiment it is seen also that the tricus
pid valve performs its office as completely as the mitral, op
posing a perfect obstacle to the flow of blood until force is em

ploIytedis. probable that in the living heart the valves are not

applied close to the sides of the ventricles, when these are in their
diastole, and full of blood ; but that an interval exists between
them occupied by this fluid. The central position of the papil
lary muscles of the larger flaps, and the shortness of their ten
dons are favourable to this supposition ; and, in the right ven

tricle, the mode in which the smaller flap is connected to the
septum, by tendons inserted directly, and without papillary
muscles, requires for the closing of this portion of the valve,
that the blood should have insinuated itself between it and the

adjacent surface, previously to the commencement of the systole,
inasmuch as the mere muscular contraction of the ventricle is
;>80  SIXTH REPORT 18.1G.

incapable of drawing this flap from the adjoining surface ; and
were the systole to commence while this portion of the valve
was applied to the side of the ventricle, the impulse of the
blood would be expended upon its auricular, instead of its ven
tricular surface. In many quadrupeds, for instance, in the calf,
the papillary muscles are almost altogether wanting in both
sides of the heart : the tendons of the valves are inserted direct
ly into the surfaces of the ventricles, and are so short that it is
manifestly impossible that the flaps can be laid against the
sides of those cavities when they are distended with blood.

   In the dead heart, placed in water, the valves do not hang

down in the fluid, but assume a cup-like form, and their free
edges are puckered together ; thus manifesting a disposition to
acquire, without the aid of the muscles, that figure and position
which are most favourable for receiving the impulse of the

blood.

    When the ventricular systole begins, the valves are closed by
the muscular power of the ventricles transmitted to them
through the blood, and the papillary muscles, commencing their
contraction at the same moment, are enabled to resist the im
petus by which, but for their aid, the valves would be driven
unduly towards the auricles. The valvular flaps are now in
contact with each other by a portion of their auricular surfaces
adjacent to their free edges, and their form is curvilinear like

that of a sail distended by the wind ; a form of surface which, it

may be observed, enables the papillary muscles to resist the
impetus of the blood by a much less expenditure of their power
than had the valves been rendered tense in the first instance,
and drawn to a point by the action of these muscles alone. As
the systole proceeds, all the parts of the ventricles approach,
more or less, to the base ; and thus the distance which at the
beginning of the systole intervened between the auriculo-ven-
tricular openings and the more remote extremities of the papil
lary muscles, is gradually abridged. The gradual contraction
of these muscles serves to compensate for the diminution of
this distance, and thus the valves are retained in an unaltered
position from the beginning till the end of the systole.

   This view of the purpose which the contractile power of the pa
pillary muscles is intended to fulfil, is strengthened by observing
that those papillary muscles are the longest which have their
origin from the substance of the ventricles most remote from
the base of the heart, and that they are found to be shorter in
proportion as their origins are nearer to that part ; and the ten
dinous cords of the smaller flap of the tricuspid valve, which
ON THE MOTIONS AND SOUNDS OF THE HEART.                                  281

arise from the septum very near the base, proceed from its sur
face to the margin of the valve without the intervention of any
papillary muscle. '

   This method of arrangement evidently depends upon the
general law of muscular contraction, according to which the
shortening of a fibre bears a definite ratio to its length in the
uncontracted state. The parts of the ventricle most remote

from the base receive the longest fibres, and accordingly make
the greatest degree of approach to it during their period of
con§trIaIc.--tioTnh. e Committee have repeated many of their former ex

periments with regard both to the motions and sounds of the
heart, and have derived from them a confirmation of the views
detailed in their last Report. In order to elucidate the cause of
the sounds of the heart the following new experiments have

been performed.  1.  --  In  a calf,  prepared  in the manner  described
   Experiment
in the former Report, the thorax was opened, and the apex of the
heart cut off, so that the blood, during the contraction of the
ventricles, flowed into the chest, instead of passing into the
large arteries. An ear-tube being applied to the body of the
ventricles, one sound only was heard, resembling the first sound
of the heart, and coinciding with the ventricular systole. When
the blood had ceased to flow, a finger was inserted into the left
ventricle, by which it was firmly grasped at each contraction,

and the ear-tube being again applied to the surface, a sound,
which may be described as a dull thump, was heard simultane
ously with the               of the' finger by the ventricle.
   Experiment    g2.ra--spA  stop-cock, communicating at       one  end  with

a large bladder full of water, was inserted into the right auricle

\of a human heart, and secured by a ligature. A glass tube, 2£

feet long, and inch in bore, was tied into the pulmonary artery,
one inch above the semilunar valves. The bladder pressed upon
so as to fill the right ventricle, which was then compressed at
intervals by the hand, and thus the fluid was sent into the tube
by jerks, in imitation of the natural action of the heart. An ear-
tube being applied to the surface of the heart, two sounds were

heard, one prolonged, the other abrupt, very closely resembling
the natural sounds of the beating heart. The former sound was
heard during the contraction of the hand, the latter immediately
upon its relaxation. During the first sound the fluid ascended
in the tube, and descended a little when the second sound was

heard. The tube was now taken out of the artery ; the semi
lunar valves were completely removed, and the tube was rein
serted and fixed as before. The alternate compression of the
282                 SIXTH REPORT 1836.

ventricle by the hand, and relaxation being renewed, two sounds
were heard, both prolonged, the second having lost the abrupt
ness by which  it
   Experiment       h--adThbeeeenxppererivmioeuntsly   characterized.      was
                3.                                    now to be described
first made by M. Rouanet, and is detailed by M. Bouilleaud, in
his work on the diseases of the heart. It consists in attaching
by one end, a glass tube a few inches in length, and about au
inch wide, to a bladder holding water, and by the other to the
aorta, close beneath the semilunar valves, but so as not to inter
fere with their movements ; the muscular substance of the heart
having been previously removed. Another glass tube, some
feet long, and of equal diameter with the former, is tied into
the aorta at a distance of two or three inches above the semilu

nar valves. The bladder is compressed by the hand so as to
raise the water in the tube to a considerable height ; and the
hand being suddenly relaxed, the column of water in the longer
tube, deprived of support, descends until it is arrested by the

closing of the semilunar valves. At this instant, if the ear have
Ifbeen applied to the lower part of the longer tube, an abrupt

sound is heard, resembling the second sound of the heart.
the semilunar valves be now removed, and the experiment with
this alteration, be repeated, the sound, which is heard to ac
company the relaxation of the heart, is no longer abrupt, but

prolonged.
   The conclusions which the Committee have drawn from these
experiments, as to the causes of the ordinary sounds of the heart,
are similar to those detailed in their former Report, to which

they  beg leave to refer.       that many writers upon the sounds
      appears to the Committee
  It
of the heart have not sufficiently distinguished the characters of
                                 "oftitch-etafcir"st,wahnicdh  the
those sounds,  the prolongation                                 has  abruptness
of the second   ; and the term                                        been em

ployed to express their rythm, is likely to mislead inaccurate
observers by representing the sounds as of equal length.
The first sound, of a homogeneous character, beginning and
ending with the ventricular systole, which is a prolonged action,
coincides with it in duration ; and the observation of this fact
has enabled the Committee to exclude from the causes of the
first sound, all those which are of a momentary nature, as the
closing of valves, and those possessing the character of im

pulse.

   In concluding their second Report, the Committee wishtostate
their opinion that the motions and sounds of the heart have
been now, by themselves and others, investigated nearly as far
PATHOLOGY OF BRAIN AND NERVOUS SYSTEM.                           283

as can be done by mere experiment ; but that much light can be
thrown upon the subject, and the truth of theories tested, by the
observation of disease. To this part of the subject, the Dublin
Committee propose to apply themselves during the ensuing

year, if it be the wish of the Association that their inquiries

should be continued.

(Signed)              James Macartney, M.D., F.R.S.
                      ERvoobreyrtKAednanmesd,y,A.MM..D, .T.C.D.
                      George Greene, A.B., M.D.
                      John Hart, M.D.
                      Wm. Bruce Joy, A.M., M.B.
                      John Nolan, M.D.
                      Robert Law, M.D.
August 19th, 183fi.
                      H. Carlile, A.B., T.C.D.

Report of the Dublin Committee on the Pathology of the
                        Brain and Nervous System.

The Committee appointed in Dublin to investigate the " Patho

logy of the Brain and Nervous System," feel compelled, on the
present occasion, to confine themselves to an analysis of the
cases of nervous affections which have come under their obser
vation, during the short period which has elapsed since they have
considered themselves to be regularly appointed.

    They are of opinion that in order to arrive at accurate patho
logical conclusions on a subject so extensive and complicated,
and on which the most eminent authorities are found to disagree,

asetxevaremerdyin--agtriaeonandt ,--nsutumhbebsnee,rqutehoneftlycsaysmeaspcctsouhmroasuteldopfboesetaficrmhsotcratsesuembmciaettxreeadfmuilnltyoatritoehngesiir

made, in the presence of the Committee, to ascertain the struc
tural lesion or lesions with which the symptoms co-existed.

   As far as their investigations have as yet extended, they see
that the subject, if considered in all its details, will require a
considerable length of time before they can accumulate such a
number of cases and matured observations as would justify
them in drawing general conclusions.
iJ84             SIXTH REPORT -- 1»36.

   They have collected some valuable facts relating to injuries
and diseases of the nerves, which seem to throw light upon the
disputed points of the physiology and pathology of this portion
of the nervous system. They are of opinion, however, that
more extended observations on this branch of the subject are

required to be made. They would also submit the necessity of
repeating those experiments, upon which so many rely as a

foundation for their doctrines.
   They have been for some time engaged in registering the hi

story and symptoms of cases of nervous affections in the Wards
of the House of Industry, Dublin, and the different Hospitals

belonging thereto.
   They find that this Institution presents ample materials for a

future report, should they be re-appointed, the number of cases
of mental and nervous diseases which it contains being, in
dependently of about 150 cases of paralysis, as follows, viz.

       Chronic Insane       Males.      Females.
       Epileptic Insane
       Congenital Idiots      J4           1/9
       Epileptic Idiots                     33
                               21           62
                                            20
                               69

                               14

                            178 294 Total 472

   The number of cases which the Committee have been enabled

to examine with sufficient accuracy, amounts to forty-one. Of
these they have made an analysis which is attached to their

Report. They also affix an index referring to seventeen cases of
affections of individual nerves, but regret that they have not had
sufficient time to make either as full and accurate as they could
wish.
                          James O'Beirne, M.D.
       (Signed)           George Greene, M.D.

                          John Macdoxnell, M.D.
                          Robert Adams, A.M., T.C.D.

Dublin, August Ijth, 1836.
DISCUSSIONS OF OBSERVATIONS OF THE TIDES.                                  285

Account of the recent Discussions of Observations of the Tides
which have been obtained by means of the grant of Money
which was placed     at the disposal of the Author  foBr ythaJt.puWr.
pose at the last     Meeting of the Association.
Lubbock, Esq.

I wish to lay before the Section the points to which I have
chiefly directed my attention on the subject of the tides since
the last meeting of   the Association,  aaniddefdorbywthhiechgraI nbteogf
which was placed     at my disposal,                                        money
                                                                           to offer

Imy warmest acknowledgements.    Mr. Dessiou to     separate               into

   In the first place requested
different categories his discussion of the Liverpool tides for the
calendar months, so as to ascertain the difference between the

morning and evening tides on the same day, or the diurnal ine
quality. This                                                              inI
the height, as   inequality is  extremely sensible  at Liverpool
                may be seen     in the diagram and   tables which

prepared, with Mr.Dessiou's assistance, and which are published

in the Phil. Trans.
Mr. Dessiou also, at my request, classified the errors of pre
diction for a year at Liverpool, and also of a year at London, in
Iorder to deduce the influence upon the tide of variations in the

atmospheric pressure. have thus succeeded in confirming the

result first obtained by M. Daussy from the observations at Brest,
                           of high water is
namely, that the height      In the Report   lwIeshesixcwphrheeIsnsheadthdetthhbeearohopmoinneoitoeunrr
is high, and vice versa.
                          the Association,
formerly to present to
that the tides in the river Thames did not warrant this infer

ence ; this opinion was founded upon the rough examination of
Ia year's observations, and it is now completely disproved.

     have also been enabled to procure the assistance of Mr. Jones
and Mr. Russell, two excellent computers. These gentlemen,
under my guidance, have discussed the observations of 19 years
at the London Docks. These observations were formerly dis
cussed by Mr. Dessiou with reference to the moon's transit im
Imediately preceding. But upon examining the results thus ob

tained saw that for the interval no satisfactory comparison with
theory could be obtained for the moon's parallax and declination
corrections in this manner, and that it was indispensible to re

fer the phenomena to the tide-producing forces at a period more
remote. The law of the ifitervals, when the discussion is insti

tuted with reference to the transit immediately preceding the
time of high water, whether at London, Liverpool, or Brest, de
286 SIXTH REPORT -- 1836.

pends partly upon the phenomena asdeduciblefrom Bernoulli's
Iequilibrium theory, and partly upon the law of the intervals be

tween the moon's successive transits. therefore directed Mr.
Jones and Mr. Russell to discuss the observations with reference

to the fifth transit preceding, or that two days before the high

water under consideration.

   The  results     which we     obtained, and    the   comparisons  with
theory              instituted,  are printed in   the                The
        which I                                        Phil. Trans.
observations of 19 years amount to 13,370 ; but notwithstanding
their multiplicity, when they come to be separated into numerous
categories, as for the purpose of ascertaining the diurnal inequa
lity, the irregularities which the results present show clearly that
even a greater number is required in order to arrive at averages
which can be sufficiently depended upon. Still the general con
clusion to which my discussions lead is that the equilibrium

theory of Bernoulli satisfies the phenomena nearly if not quite
within the limits of the errors of the observations, and that it
leaves very little, if anything, to be accounted for otherwise.

   This question is extremely interesting, and seems to me to
deserve the fullest  Iinfvtehsetigdaistciounssiownhicwherteheexmteantdeeridalsbywittahkiningouinr
reach can justify.
all the observations which have been made at the London Docks

I(which would give us about 16 years more, or nearly double the

number), have no doubt that the results would be much more free

from irregularity. It would also be worth while to bring up the
TicinnlaitnbeTalraevtbsiaol*elnIa.VhnaIadn.ddttohbXee.weinhhfeatiethgxethhatemcytotloyoonu1'wsg5hh°pa.tattroatIhllhheaaayxvveehoaubdhgeiehtbntheeeintrfotoethxhneaaecvtmgellyeocob5tnee7'eds',nadtnheinde
minute quantities, which would thus have given a second ap
proximation on      account of   the              additional labour which
they would have     occasioned,  but  Igrheaavte  no doubt that something

would be gained by supplying     this correction.      the  grant of  the
   Besides all the work which
                                 I have detailed,
Association has enabled me to employ Mr. Jones to effect a dis
cussion of the Liverpool observations for 19 years, also with
reference to a back transit in order to obtain the calendar month

and diurnal inequalities. It would be desirable to complete this
discussion, in order to obtain in the same manner the moon's

parallax corrections. It would also be desirable to extend the

* Phil. Trans, ISM. The correction for the difference of the moon's de
clination from 15°a

                in iIs,
                             if
                     apprehend, insensible, and that for the difference of the
moon's parallax will seldom,
one tenth of font                ever, exceed one minute for the interval, and
                    the height.
DISCUSSIONS OF OBSERVATIONS OF THE TIDES.  287

discussion of the Liverpool tides by employing more of the
Hutchinsonian observations.

  If the Brest observations were published it might be better to

proceed at once with their discussion, abandoning, if necessary,

for the present our Liverpool and London investigations. The
observations there have no doubt been carefully made, and the
situation of the port may appear to some to present advantages.

IThese advantages am convinced have been much overrated,
Iand attribute the extreme apathy which has been evinced on

the subject of the tides in this country until lately to the erro
neous idea that little could be reaped from observations at places

Iso far removed from the open ocean as London. However feel
Imuch regret at being deprived of the opportunity of recurring to

the Brest observations, particularly as am informed they have
long since been printed.
288 SIXTH REPORT -- 1836.

A Paper was communicated entitled Observations for deter

   PSmooinlwainreglSl,ptheeMctr.reAufm.r,aciFtni.vRev.aSIrn.i,oduicsSesamvfieolidraian.thPeroSBfteyasnsdtoharerdoRfeRvaG.yesoBmoafedterthyne
   in the University of Oxford.
   This paper contained the details of the observations in a ta

bular form, printed copies of which were distributed. The
author prefaced them by a brief statement of the circumstances
which had led to them, and of their nature. The determination
of the refractive indices for definite rays of the solar spectrum
marked by the dark lines, from the direct observations of their
deviations produced by prisms of different substances, first pro
posed and executed by Fraunhofer, for ten media solid and liquid,
was carried on by M. Rudberg for ten more cases. The neces

J.sity for an extended series of such determinations was pointed

out and strongly insisted on by Sir Herschel, as well as by
Sir D. Brewster ; and was further urged by a special recom
mendation from the British Association. (Third Report, p.
319.) Not being able to learn that anything has been done
towards supplying the deficiency in other quarters, the author
took up the inquiry; and the tabular statements contain the
results of observations, in which he has attempted to ascertain
the refractive indices belonging to each of the standard primary
rays for various media : comprising in the present instance the
only highly dispersive substances he has been as yet able to pro
cure in a condition capable of prismatic observation ; together
with some other liquids of different natures : this being a first
contribution only towards a series of such determinations, which

he hopes to continue.
                               289

Provisional Report on the Communication between the Arteries
     Absorbents      the part                                                                       By
and  Hodgkin.    on            of                                          the  London  Committee.

Or.

   Dr. Hodgkin read to the Medical Section a provisional Report
on behalf of the London Committee appointed to investigate the
communications between the arteries and absorbents. As the
Committee is continued to pursue the inquiry, the author has
not transmitted the Report for publication in the present volume.
The following are the outlines of the Report.

   The Committee had added to its number Mr. Francis Sibson,
jun., an expert and practised anatomist then engaged at Guy's
Hospital, where it was found most convenient for the inquiry to be
conducted. Numerous examinations were made of the lacteals

in man and other animals, in which these vessels were either
filled with chyle, or artificially injected with mercury, but no
positive instance of a lacteal communicating with the veins was
discovered. Two instances were mentioned in which an efferent

vessel from a mesenteric gland entered a large vein, but there
was reason to suspect that the vessels, which appeared to be
long to the lymphatic system, were really veins. The commu
nication between the absorbents and veins in the substance of the

mesenteric glands was confirmed in numerous instances, and un
der circumstances which induced the reporter to believe that no
rupture or extravasation had taken place. Although the views
of Professor Lippi had not been confirmed by the examiners,

the reporter did not conclude that they were to be wholly rejected,
and the thoracic duct and right trunk regarded as the sole com
munications between the absorbent and venous systems, since nu
merous anatomists had seen and described other instances of ab

sorbents entering veins. He had himself seen the absorbents from
a lung entering the vena azygos, and his friend Mr. Bracy Clark
had found the receptaculum chyli emptying itself into a lumbar
vein. He was inclined to believe that such communications oc
curred as anomalies and variations analogous to other varieties in
the distribution of vessels. This view derived some support from
the fact that such communications occurred chiefly in or near the
neck, and in the pelvis, where they resembled the normal distribu
tion observed in birds and reptiles. There was then an analogy be
tween these irregularities of the absorbent system, and the most
frequent varieties in the arterial, which also, for the most part,

rIetsredomidl.b,lnevo.tt--haep1pn8e3oa6rrm. tahl adtisLtirpibpui tiwoanas  in some   of the inferior animals.
                                                                            able to  demonstrate the cont
290 SIXTH REPORT -- 183G.

munications for which he contended, in every subject, and the
care which he had taken to describe and delineate them when
met with seemed to indicate that they were comparatively rare,
even amongst his numerous examinations. Amongst the facts
connected with the inferior animals, the author remarked that
in the kangaroo he had found that the thoracic duct was double,
affording another instance of similarity between the circulation
in that animal and in birds, and noticed the very considerable
dilatation of the receptaculum chyli which he had met with in
a foetal pig. The Report also contained some notice of the la
bours of Miiller, Arnold, Fohmann, Panizza, and Drs. Thomson
and Sharpey on this subject, as well as the recently published
thesis of Professor Brechet. In relation to the origins of the lym
phatics, he noticed the fact observed by Mr. T. King, that the
lymphatics of the thyroid gland were found filled with the very
peculiar secretion proper to the cells of that organ, and that he
had himself seen the lymph in the thoracic duct of the pig flow
ing alternately colourless and highly sanguinolent, which, as
no violence had been done to the abdomen, appeared to indicate
some natural but unexplained communication between the san
guiferous and lymphatic systems. The Report concluded with
some observations respecting the formation of vessels, in which
the author endeavoured to account for the exact correspondence
which often exists between arteries and veins, and also for the
production of valves in the latter vessels and in absorbents.
291

RetMaphnoerdr.tdPWirroeo.cffetSEiso.xsnpHoeroarfirPmarhieCsinlo,ltmispPmrsooitntfee(ReSs;seuopbrotceroPtrnerosari)nws.etieannlgl,oTfLe'Pimeroupftee.r-saCstoourlrF.eo,SRyuBnkEdkSes,r,

    Having noticed the principal causes of error in experiments
on the temperature of the air, water, rocks, and metallic veins
below the surface, the author described the methods and instru

ments of research recommended by a Committee of the Associa
tion to eliminate the known and neutralize the unknown sources

of fallacy. The instruments constructed for this purpose were
properly placed in many situations, under the direction of com

petent persons, and satisfactory results had already been obtained,
which in every instance agreed with the general results of foreign
inquiries in proving a continual augmentation of heat below the

surface of invariable temperature. At the Lead Hills Professor
Forbes had placed thermometers under the care of Mr. Irvine ;
Mr. Buddie had established registers at Newcastle ; Mr. Ander
son, at Monk Wearmouth ; Mr. Hodgkinson, near Manchester ;

and withina few days Professor Phillips had been enabled through
the kindness of a friend to place a thermometer in a deep coal
mine at Bedminster, near Bristol. Similar instruments have since

been extensively distributed, and the following general instruc
tions and form of register have been prepared for the assistance
of observers.

Instructions for conducting experiments on the Temperature of
   the Earth, at various depths, upon a plan and with instru
   ments recommended by a Committee of the British Associa
   tion for the Advancement of Science.

The general interest and importance of inquiries into the
interior temperature of the earth render it proper to explain, to
those who may be engaged in conducting the experiments, that
for the purpose of obtaining results really valuable, and capable
of being combined in philosophical investigations, it                                                                                         is essential
pt--hlaaitnt otisfheecxospnaevmreiemnieoenbntjtecfttohlaolotfwtrheeesde,ra--erscauhnltdsshsooibmutalidlianrebdeinspstrhrouopmuoldesendbtse,
                                                                                                                                             -- the same

                                                                                                                                              employed;
                                                                                                                                             recorded in

tables of one form, and transmitted to one person, named by the
Association, for the examination of the Committee.

    (a.) The object proposed to be accomplished, by the experi
ments contemplated, is the acquisition of satisfactory data, for
the establishment of undoubted conclusions concerning the real

u2
292                     SIXTH REPORT 1836.

temperature of the interior of the earth, from the surface to the

greatest depths yet reached by human enterprise.

   (b.) The plan of experiment proposed for general adoption,

and specially required to be followed by those who undertake
to use the instruments furnished by the Association, is intended
to reduce the effect of known and equalize those of unknown
sources of fallacy.
   For this end certain precautions must be observed, suited to
experiments in air, water, and rock respectively; for none of these
are wholly free from the influence of sources of serious error.

   The temperature of the air in the gallery of a mine varies ac
cording to the place of the observation as compared with the
entrance and exit of the current ; according to the rate of this
current as it passes through a confined, open, or complicated
passage ; according to the place of the thermometer in the sec
tion of the air passage ; according to lights, respiration, and
other local conditions.

On all these accounts the experiments in air are the least ac
curate indications of subterranean temperature : however care

fully made there is in the result always too much of the effect of

local influences which cannot be estimated. (They are however
extremely valuable in combination with those hereafter noticed.)
IfThe water of a mine offers a less exceptionable subject of ex
periment.          it be a small continuous subterranean spring,
discovered at a known depth, without any sign of efflux under
violent pressure, its   temperature carefully taken will   be found
to be nearly constant.      The composition and specific
                                                          gravity of
                    may be of importance in the combination of
tshueltsw. atIetr  should therefore be correctly stated. But water  the re
                                                                    merely
lying in the galleries of a mine, or collected from the sides of
the shafts, is never to be. referred to as a standard of subterra

nean temperature.

  It is however in the solid rock that the best observations, and
those most suited to the purpose of philosophical reasoning, are

to be obtained. The principal sources of fallacy in this class of
experiments arise from the unequal and varying influences of
the air-currents, moisture, &c, on the surface of the rock ; local

chemical actions and electric currents may also be noticed as

affecting the precision of the result, and if known should be re
corded. The only experimental caution, however, available in
this case, is to sink the thermometer to a sufficient depth from
the surface, in a hole very little larger than itself, and to record
the observations after moderate intervals of time.
    (c) The instruments furnished have been compared with one

known standard, and all that is required of the observer is to re
EXPERIMENTS ON SUBTERRANEAN TEMPERATURE. 293

cord exactly their indications under the conditions mentioned in
the following table ; of which separate copies have been furnished,
so as to have all the entries as uniform as possible, and dupli
cates to enable the observers                retain a copy. The original
is to be folded and forwarded to      t"o    Professor Phillips, Assistant

General Secretary to the British Association, York."

Weekly Register of Observations on Subterranean Temperature
          at in Lat.
                                                                                                 , Long.

          Elevation of the surface above the sea in feet*.
          Mean annual temperature of the air at surface.
          Mean temperature of permanent springs issuing from rock.

              Thermometer (No. )      exposed for half an hour    in the fol               Thermometer    Thermometer
              lowing situations, and  In the following order of  succession.
                                                                                           (No.  ).       (No.  ).

                               In air : in the In air : In the   Immersed in                In a hole of    In another
                               mine or col mine or col            a subterra                rock? 3 feet      hole of
Year, Month,  In air : in the  liery near the liery near the                               deep. Depth
   and Day.    shade 4 feet      base of the base of the        nifeaconnsspt arinntgf. :  from surface.    rockJ3 feet
                                                                                           ( )·           deep. Depth
                 above the     cold-air shaft. hot-air shaft.         Depth                               from surface.
                  ground.             Depth                     ( )·                                      ( )·
                               Depth

                               ( )· ( ).

January.

                                             ·

Averages.

   * The half-tide level is supposed to be the best standard of sea level : the elevation
of the surface may be found by levelling, trigonometry, the barometer, or by com
parison with navigations or railways. The method of determination should be stated.
f The quality of water should be stated, as salt, chalybeate, ordinary.
Ift State whether the rock be argillaceous, calcareous, or arenaceous.                                  experiments

be made in rock dykes or mineral veins, another thermometer should be placed at the
same depth in the neighbouring rock.
                             295

Inquiry into the Validity of a Method recently proposed by
   George B. Jerrard, Esq., for Transforming and Resolving
   Equations of Elevated Degrees : undertaken at the Re
   quest of the Association by Professor Sir W. R. Hamilton.

[1.] It is well known that the result of the elimination of x,

between the general equation of the mth degree,

    X = xm + A/"1 4 B/-2 + Cxm-3 + Dx*-*
           + E/"5 + &c. = 0

and an equation of the form
                           y = /(*),
/(in which                                                                                                   (2.)

               (x) denotes any rational function of x, or, more ge
nerally, any function which admits of only one value for any
one value of x,) is a new or transformed equation of the mlb de
gree, which may be thus denoted,
-/(*J}{y -/fo>} {y -/(*«)} · · · {y
....r, , x%,                          = o, . . (3.)

              xm denoting the m roots of the proposed equation $

or, more concisely, thus,

Y = Vm + Mym-X + B'ym~2 + C ym~3 + Vy--4

                   + E'ym-5 + &c. = 0,

the coefficients A', B', C, &c, being connected with the values
/(·*"i),/(#2), &c, by the relations,

  -A' =/>,) + f(xi) + &c. +f(xm),

+ B' =/(x1)/(*a) +/(*,)/(*,) + /(*,)/(*3) + &c-                                                              (5.)

- + /(*-- i)/(*J»
  O =/(*,)/(*,)/ (*s) + &c-

/And it has been found possible, in several known instances, to
assign such    aetqhfuoearmptiroontp,oosYtehde=ofur0n,ocsrtihigoainnllable(exqle)usasotricoyonm, Xpthlea=xt  the new or
transformed                                                                                                  or easier to
resolve, than                                                                                                0. For ex
ample, it has long been known that by assuming

               *-/(*)=»=+**                                                                                  (60
296 SIXTH REPORT -- 1836.

one term may be taken away from the general equation (1) ; that
general equation being changed into another of the form
      B'y-Y = ym +
                                2 + C'ym-3 + &c. = 0, . . . (7.)

in which there occurs no term proportional to y01-1, the condi
tion
                                A' = 0
                                                                             (8.)

being satisfied; and Tschirnhausen discovered that by assuming

                    y =/(*) = P+Qx + x9,                                     (9.)

and by determining P and Q so as to satisfy two equations

which can be assigned, and which are respectively of the first
and second degrees, it is possible to fulfil the condition

                          B' = 0,                                            (10.)

along with the condition
                                 A' = 0, . . (8.)

and therefore to take away two terms at once from the general
equation of the m* degree ; or, in other words, to change that
equation (1) to the form

      C'/-3Y = ym +             + D'ym~* + &c. = 0, . . (11.)

in which there occurs no term proportional either to ym~ or to

ym~ 2. But if we attempted to take away three terms at once,
from the general equation (1), or to reduce it to the form

          Y = ym + D'y"-4 + E'ym~5 + &c. = 0, . . (12.)

(in   which there occurs    no term           proportional    to ym_1,       ym-- s,  or
     ~ by assuming,       according           to the same     analogy,
ym    3,)

                    y=P+Q,x+Rx* + xa, . .                                    . (13.)
                                                              P,
                                                                          .
and then determining the three coefficients                   Q, R, so as to
satisfy the three conditions

                          A' = . (8.)      0, 0, 0,
                                                     ..
                          B' =                       . (10.)

and                                                                          (14.)
                                     C' =

we    should be     conducted,   by        athe law      (5) of the composition of
the   coefficients              to          system       of three equations, of the
                    A', B', C,
1st, 2nd, and 3rd degrees, between the three coefficients P,Q,R
                                                                                      ;

and consequently, by elimination, in general, to final equation
                                                              a

of the 6th degree, which the known methods are unable to re
solve. Still less could we take away, in the present state of
METHOD OF TRANSFORMING AND RESOLVING EQUATIONS. 297

algebra, four terms at once from the general equation of the m01
degree, or reduce it to the form
             ....Y = ym + W ym~5 + &c. = 0,
Qjby assuming an expression with four coefficients,              (15.)

             y = P+  + R««+ S^H-*4; . . . (16.)

because the four conditions,

                     A' = 0, . . (8.)
                     B' = 0, . . (10.)
                     C' = 0, . . (14.)
             Vand
                        =o                                       (17.)
would be, with respect to these four coefficients, P, Q, R, S, of
the 1st, 2nd, 3rd, and 4th degrees, and therefore would in ge
neral conduct by elimination to   an   equation of the 24th degree.
                                   to  take away the 2nd, 3rd, and
In like manner, if we attempted
5th terms (instead of the 2nd,     3rd, and            from the
equation of the rrfi' degree, or  to reduce  i4tthto)  the form  general

        ym + C/y»-s + E'y-5 + &c. = 0, . . . (18.)

so as to satisfy the three conditions (8), (10) and (17),

             A' = 0, B' = 0, IV = 0,

by assuming  y = P+ Qlx + Rx3 +X3, . . (13.)

we should be conducted to a final equation of the 8th degree ;

and if we attempted to satisfy these three other conditions

                  A' = 0, . . (8.)                               (19.)
                   C' = 0, . . (14.)

             and

                  D'-aB'2 = 0,

(in which a is any known or assumed number,) so as to trans
form the general equation (1) to the following,

Y = ym + B'y-2 + aB'2y-4 +E'y-5 + &c. = 0, (20.)

by the  same assumption (13), we should      be conducted  Ibtymeliigmhit,
nation  to an equation of condition of the   12th degree.
therefore, have been naturally supposed that each of these four
transformations, (12), (15), (18), (20), of the equation of the m01
dsthteaegtmreeeoa,fllw,aablgsyebisnuraigt.aebnleeYreaatlssMiummrp.poJtseiosrnirbsalerodftothheabsefusenufccfetciceoteneddeydionrintfh(exe)fpf,erewcstiietnhngt
298 SIXTH REPORT -- 1836.

out being obliged to resolve any equation higher than the fourth
degree, and has even effected the transformation (12) without
employing biquadratic equations. His method may be described
as consisting in rendering the problem indeterminate, by as
suming an expression for y with a number of disposable coeffi
cients greater than the number of conditions to be satisfied ; and
in employing this indeterminateness to decompose certain of the
conditions into others, for the purpose of preventing that eleva
tion of degree which would otherwise result from the elimina
tions. This method is valid, in general, when                    Ithe proposed       equa
tion is itself of a sufficiently elevated degree                                     found
                                                                 ; but have
that when the exponent m of that degree is helow a certain
minor limit, which is different for different transformations, (be
ing = 5 for the first, = 10 for the second, = 5 for the third,
and = 7 for the fourth of those already designated as the trans
formations (12), (15), (18) and (20),) the processes proposed by
Mr. Jerrard conduct in general to an expression for the new
          y which is a multiple of the                                               poly-
variable                                  proposed evanescent
          of the w»th degree in .%·; and  that on this account                       these
nome X
processes, although valid as general transformations of the
equation of the mth degree, become in general illusory when they
are applied to resolve equations of the fourth and fifth degrees,
by reducing them to the binomial form, or by reducing the

equation of the fifth degree to the known solvible form of De
Moivre. An analogous process, suggested by Mr. Jerrard, for
reducing the general equation of the sixth to that of the fifth
degree, and a more general method of the same kind for re
solving equations of higher degrees, appear to me to be in ge
neral, for  a similar reason,
nuity and   talent exhibited   inilluMsro.ryJe. rraArddm'sirrinesgeatrhcehegsr,eaIt  inge
                                                                                     come

to this conclusion with regret, but believe that the following
discussion will be thought to establish it sufficiently.
   [2.] To begin with the transformation (12), or the taking away
of the second, third and fourth terms at once from the general
equation of the mth degree, Mr. Jerrard effects this transforma
/tion by assuming generally an expression with seven terms,
     y = (x) = A' xx' + A" x*-" + A'" xx'"
            + M'x^' + M"**" + M"'y'" + Mlva^IV .. (21.)

            0,                                                   /*"' f*,v being chosen
                  1,
                        2,
                            3,
                                 4,

                                            fjJ

                                                            p."
the seven unequal exponents X' X" A"'
at pleasure out of the indefinite line of integers

and the seven coefficients                &c (22.)
their six ratios               A' A" A'" M' M" M'" MIV, or rather
MBTHOD OF TRANSFORMING AND RESOLVING EQUATIONS. 299
         A' A" m' m" *r tr
                                                          ·       \.   ,
         jm, -gn, Miv> Miv» Miv> Miv
                                                                      ·)

being determined so as to satisfy the three conditions

                       A'=0, . · (8.)

                  B' = 0, . . (10.)

                  C'=0, . . (14.)

without resolving any equation higher than the third degree, by

AAAatcnofhooefparmoIterntuhopsctetohvehossifdaruisstittemnuioAcewetnthn'hirosoaeioicnfonefhsndtcsthhmooBeefea'oftyfanchmicseoeisbae,eueyfnsfmtietwcpsbvpireeoeteinna,sodtrensaeeqnnvutrdeeaAa(ldn2to'ti,t1pohit)aerBniseeda'es,alfnooaCrdlrnelo,dsdwopeiifenstc.cottehitmsigevpreeoalMaalslyswey;adMntd(ao5innh)MpdtooemotrhcfpoMeeagtirrvehetees,
                  ....A' = A',,0 + A'0)1,
as follows :                                                                .
                  B «B'w + B'I,l+B'0,,,,
                                                                    (24.)
                                                                    (25.)

S M",V', IfftotuhhfneetctttseiwyoremondsebprgoeaorfctleitoAeAs't,'ohhoAif"Mw,oAi'rAt,',h'"BA,''hr"e>M,sip'A,'de'"cMet,n"so,tooMtiMnaA"s'g"'.,,thoAMe"srTM,eat,Aitsawh'f"eyh,rnaiactthnhwioedenistoafwiflhrosotahtmnceddooegnditenedengtirteemrieogoieunnraseslt

                          A'li0 = 0,                                  (26.)

                          B'9i0=0,                                    (270

and afterwards    determine the three ratios of M', M", M'", M,v,
so as to satisfy  the three other conditions

                          A'0,, = 0,                                  <28-)

                          B',^0,                                      (29-)

                          BC=0,                                       (30-)

we shall have decomposed the two conditions (8) and (10),

namely,                   ^ = Q> fl/ = 0j

into five others, and     shall have satisfied  these  five  by  means    of
the five first ratios of  the set (23), namely

                  A' A" M'            M"    M^         _  .  .   .    (31.}
                  jm, jm, mTv         spv»  M1V'

without having yet determined the remaining ratio of that set,

namely
300 SIXTH REPORT 1836.

                                 A'"                                                                    (32v
                                 M1*5

which remaining ratio can then in general be chosen so as to
satisfy the remaining condition

                        C = 0,

without our being obliged, in any part of the process, to resolve
any equation higher than the third degree. And such, in sub
stance, is Mr. Jerrard's general process for taking away the
second, third, and fourth terms at once from the equation of the
m" degree, although he has expressed it in his published Re

searches by means of a new and elegant notation of symmetric

functions, which it has not seemed necessary here to introduce,
because the argument itself can be sufficiently understood with
out it.

  [3.] On considering this process with attention, we perceive
that it consists essentially of two principal parts, the one con
ducting to an expression of the form

            y =/(*)= A'" <p(x) + MTMx(x),                                                         . . . (33.)

which satisfies the two conditions

                         A = 0, B' = 0,

the functions  *         (x) and x (x) being determined, namely,
                    <f>
                       jW=   A'  *i/ +         A"   *j"  * x.w
                            ATM                A*',                                               ··    (34->
                                                           u>»
and                                                         +                                       -»

                                                                                 »
                                                                                               ·
                                                                                                      ,
                                                                                                               ,
     ,  .      M' M" «* M'"

                            ,

but the multipliers A'" and MIV being arbitrary, and the other
part of the process determining afterwards the ratio of those two
multipliers so as to satisfy the remaining condition

                                     C' = 0.

And hence    it
less cases in   is
y, or for the       easy to see that               we would exclude those use
                                               expression for the new variable
               fwuhniccthiotnhe/(u*lt)im, ate  multiple of the proposed eva
                                             is
                                                 a

                                                 if

                                                                                             <J>
nescent polynomeX of the mA degree in x, we must, in general,
exclude the     cases    in which    the       two functions
determined     in the    first part   of       the process, are                                   (x) and % (x),
                                                                                                  connected by a
relation of the form
                         X(x) =a<t>(x) + \X,
                                                                                                        (36.)

a being any coustant multiplier, and X any multiple of X.A
METHOD OF TRANSFORMING AND RESOLVING EQUATIONS. SOI

For in all such cases the expression (33), obtained by the first
part of the process, becomes

       =/»y = (A'" + a MIV) $ (*) + *MIVX ; . . (37.)

and since this gives, by the nature of the roots xx, . . xm,

f(Xl)=(A'"+ a M'v)$ (*,), .../(*.) = (A'" + a MIV) (xm), (38.)
                                                                                            <J>
we find, by the law (5) of the composition of the coefficients of
the transformed equation in y,                                                               it

                 C' = c(A'"+aMIV)3,                                                              (39.)
                                                                                                 (40.)
-the multiplier  -being known, namely,                                             -(x4) &c.
      = (.r,)
c                                                                (*,) (jr8)0,

                    <}>                                               <f>

                     $c                                                    ; <f>y

                                                     <p
                 (x2) {xs)                                   $
                                                               0,
and being in general different from because the three first of
the seven terms of the expression (21) for can only accident
ally suffice to resolve the original problem so that when we
come, in the second part of the process, to satisfy the condition

                                                         C' =

we shall, in general, be obliged to assume

that is,         (A'" + a MIV)3 =                                  0,                                   (41.)
                                                                                               - . (42.)
                  A"' aMlv=0;                                           y
                                                         +

and consequently the expression (37) for reduces itself ulti
mately to the form which we wished to exclude, since becomes
                                                         = xM!TX
               it                                                                                (43.)
                   is

                       y
Reciprocally,    clear that the second part of the process,
or the determination of the ratio of A'" to MIV in the expression
(33), cannot conduct to this useless form for unless the two
          <J>                                                                a

                                                                                 y
functions (x) and (x) are connected by relation of the kind%
                                                                 the expression (33) to any multi
(36)  ;   because, when we equate                                  relation of that kind between
ple
      of  X, we establish thereby                              .a
those two functions. We must therefore endeavour to avoid

those cases, and we need avoid those only, which conduct to
this relation (36), and we may do so in the following manner.
[4.J Whatever positive integer the exponent may be, the
                                                                   C,
power x' may always be identically equated to an expression of
this form, . .                                                         .,
                                                                              .
^'Vx' = 50W + «*
                                                                                        +v
)                                                           + . .+ «mw -l x"_1 LWX, (44.)
   », *i

       j
               *

                       )
                                  ·

                           +
V*o · · *^ being certain functions of the expo-

nent and of the coefficients A, B,                                 . of the proposed po
302 SIXTH REPORT 1836.

Iynome X, while l/1' is a rational and integral function of x,
which is = 0 if v be less      than the                   m of the degree of
                                         exponent          is of the degree
that proposed polynome         X, but    otherwise

v -- m. In fact, if we divide the power x' by the polynome X,
according to the usual rules of the integral division of polynomes,
so as to obtain an integral quotient and an integral remainder,

the integral quotient may be denoted by \J-'\ and the integral

remainder may be denoted by

              *W + f1M*  + *(,)*"+...         +   J(,)    ,l xm~\*

                                                    IB--

and thus the identity (44) may be established. It may be no

ticed that the m coefficients sJ-'\ t^'\ . . . «W         may be consi-

dered as symmetric functions of the m roots #,, xif . . . x of
the proposed equation X = O, which may be determined by the

m relations,

x,' =  s^     +  *« xx   +  ,  « x*  +   ...  4-  *«      ,m~ l     1
                                                   m-- 1     '

                                                                       ' (45.)

<-v,)+».(°*.+^w«.-+ ··· +ili<~1-

These symmetric functions       of the roots possess      manv other
important properties, but      it is unnecessary here       to develop

them.

Adopting the notation (44), we may put, for abridgement,

                                                                       (46.)

       m-- I     m-1           m-l / m-1'

M'50("'>+ M"50^+ M'"5o("'"> + M'v,0(",v) =/o>

  ....a'LM + A"L^ + A'"L^") = a,                                       >(47.)

IP)M' + M" L<""> + W" I/"'") + MTM I>'v> = M,                           (48.)
                                                                        (49.)
METHOD OF TRANSFORMING AND RESOLVING EQUATIONS. 303

                          A +M=L                                (50.)
                                                  for y is com
and then the two parts, of which the expression
posed, will take the forms

Ax + A x + A x = p0 + pl x I

                                                    (51.)

aFM' X*' + M" aT" + W"  + MIV *"" =p'0 +JB', x      (52.)

and the expression itself will become  Yto-- 1 T    f ' ' v*®0

  y=f(x)=Po+p0 + (p, +p\)x

At the same time we see that the case to be avoided, for the
reason lately assigned, is the case of proportionality of p'0, p'it
-v· · · p'  *°Po>Pi> · · · Pm--V ^ '8 therefore convenient to

introduce these new abbreviations,                  w

          iPHm-l -*

and

p'o-PPo=9o,P\-PP\ = 9i>-P'm-2-PPm-2=9m^; (55.)

for thus we obtain the expressions

     p'0= q0 +PPPo»,PP''il = *+PP»~?'~-*\           ... (56.)
                                                          (57-)
        J= 1m-2 + PPm-2>Pm-l=PPm.V
and
                                                 )
y =/(.r) = (1 + p) (Po+Px* + -/>m_i *

            +LX;+ 1o + 9i *+·· + 1m-2 xm -- 2

and we have only to take care that the m -- 1 quantities,

yo» ?i> ··· 1 -2 sna^ not a^ van'sn> Indeed, it is tacitly sup
posed in (54) that p _, does not vanish; but it must be ob
served that Mr. Jerrard's method itself essentially supposes that

the function A' x 4- A" x + A'" x is not any multiple of
the evanescent polynome X, and therefore that at least some
one of the m quantities p0,P\, ··· Pm_^ is different from 0;
now the spirit of the definitional assumptions here made, and of
304 'sixth report -- 1836.

the reasonings which are to be founded upon them, requires only
that some one such non-evanescent quantity pt out of this set
'-Pot P\>
             P _! should be made the denominator of a fraction
           p P'i
like (54), --- = p, and that thus some one term                                                           x* should be
                                                 ;
              "i                                 of the  two                                                               2tJ'hi ixs
        away out of                                 and    it
        and (p0x                                                is

                                                                  I q.
                                                                                            +
taken                the difference                           polysomes                                   p'0
+ ...                                                         so easy to                                  make
                     + pxx + ...)
adaptation, whenever the                   otchceasaiossnsuminapytioanrsise(,54th) a(t55),shinalslteraedtaoinf
in the present discussion,
writing p. for />_.·
  The expression (57) for f{x), combined with the law (5) of

the composition of the coefficients A' and B', shows that these
two coefficients of the transformed equation in may be ex
pressed as follows,                        a

and        A'=(l+j>)A"1>0 A"0>1,             p+                                                                            (58.)
                                                              if

                                                                ih
                                                                         y

                                                                                                                        .
           B'=(l+^B"2i0+(l+p)B"lil + B"0>s;                                                                                (59.)

A"A and B"A . being each rational and integral function of the
2m -- quantities p0, px, ... pm_v q0, qx, ... qm_2, which is
j

          1

       is
Lin,deapnedndenthoomf otgheeneqouuasntiotyf      and of the form of the function
                                                                   with respect to
                                             the dimension    with respect to

Po> Pu ·· Pm-v ant* °^ tae dimension
q0, qx, ... yffl_2. Comparing these expressions (58) and (59)

with the analogous expressions (24) and (25), (with which they
would of necessity identically coincide,                      we were to return
from the present to the former symbols, by substituting, for

P>PoiP\>--Pm-v"9t»q\i -- 9m-2> tneir values as functions of
A', A" A'", M', M", M"', MIV, deduced from the equations of
definition (54) (55) and (46) (47),) we find these identical equa
tions
     :

             A'1)0 = A"I)0                        =  A"li0 + A"0|1                                        . . (60.)

                                           A'0>1
and                ;
                                        ;

                                     2
                                      ;;

                                           p

                                                        +
                                                                     ;

                                                                                                       ;
     HB'i>0 = B\0 B',,, =
                                                 B\0 B"M      B'0)!                                       · · (61.)

           = ^B"2)0 + ^B"lil+B"0i2;

observing    that   whatever               may   be the dimension    of any                               part of
           with    respect to               the  m new quantities     p, q0,                              qly ...
A' or B',

1m-v tne same the dimension of that part, with respect toig

the four old quantities M', M", M'", MIV.

The system of the five conditions (26) (27) (28)                     (29)                                 (30)             may
therefore be transformed to the following system,
    METHOD OF TRANSFORMING AND RESOLVING EQUATIONS. 305

               B\0 -A"1(0 = 0,              = 0,                                         (62.>

               A"0>1 = 0, B"M = 0, B"0)2                      0 j . . . (63.)

and may in general be treated as follows. The two conditions (62),
combined with the m equations of definition (46), will in gene
ral determine the m + 2 ratios of the ?n + 3 quantities ]>0,px, ...
pm_ ,f A', a", A'" ; and then the three conditions (63), com

bined with the m equations of definition (47), and with the m
other equations (56), will in general determine
tios of the 2 m + 4 quantities q0, qt, ... qm_2,                   the 2 m        +3     ra
                                                                                  p'o,
                                                                   PPm_v                p\,

'··&,,-!> M'> M"> M'"> MIV5 after which, the ratio of A'" to

CMIV is to be determined, as before, so as to satisfy the remain-

ning condition = 0. But because the last-mentioned system,
of 2 m + 3 homogeneous equations, (63) (56) (47), between
2 m + 4 quantities, involves, as a part of itself, the system (63)
of three homogeneous equations                 (rational and integral) between
m -- 1 quantities, q0, qlt ... q               2, we see that it will in general

conduct to the result which we wished to exclude, namely, the
simultaneous vanishing of all those quantities,

               ?o = 0> ?i = 0, -- ym_2 = 0, . . . . (64.)

unless their number m -- 1 be greater than 3, that                              is,  unless

the degree m   is of    the proposed equation              (1) be  at least equal to      of
                                                             from   this discussion,
the minor limit        ;five. It results, then,
that the transformation by which Mr. Jerrard has succeeded in
taking away three terms at once from the general equation

the m0" degree, not in general applicable when that degree is
lower than the 5th in such manner that                                    in general inade
                                  y4
                                        a

                                                     0,
                                                          +

                                                           it

                                                                      is
          to  reduce the  biquadratic equation

                   j4 +      + Bx,+ C*s
A/quate                                                    D = 0,         .  .    .  (65.)

to the binomial form

                                  + D' =                                             (66.)

except by the useless assumption

                   =y     (** + A*8             *» + a3 + D),
which gives                              =+                C                 .    . (67.)
                  L                                                                    (68.)
                                             B                                   I

                                  y         0

However, the foregoing discussion may be considered as con
firming the adequacy the method to reduce the genera equa
                                  of

                                                        +
? A/tion of the Sth degree,                                Di+E = 0,                 (69.)

             + + Bi3+Ci's

to  the   tvr.in--om18ia3l6.form            x

    vol.
306 SIXTH REPORT -- 1836.

                      y5+D> + E' = 0;                                              (70.)

and to    effect the analogous transformation (12) for equations

of all    higher degrees : an unexpected and remarkable result,

which     is one of Mr. Jerrard's principal discoveries.
            Analogous remarks apply to the process proposed by the
    [5.]  mathematician for taking away the second, third and fifth
same
terms at once from the general equation (1), so as to reduce that
          to the form (18). This process agrees
equation  the whole of its first part, that is, in the                    with the fore
going in
                                                                          assumption of
      form (21)   iorf{x),    and in the determination                    of the   five ratios
the    so as to                                                            B' =    0, by sa
(31)             satisfy the   two conditions A' =0,

tisfying the five others (26) (27) (28) (29) (30), into which those
two may be decomposed ; and the difference is only in the se
cond part of the process, that is, in determining the remaining
Cratio (32) so as to satisfy the condition D' = 0, instead of the

condition = 0, by resolving a biquadratic instead of a cubic
equation. The discussion which has been given of the former
process of transformation adapts itself therefore, with scarcely
any change, to the latter process also, and shows that this pro
coefssthceanfifothnlyanbdehaigphpleierddewgritehess. uccIetssi,s,  in general,
                                                                    however,     to equations
                                                                                a remarkable
result that it can be applied generally to such equations, and
especially that the general equation of the fifth degree may be
brought       it  to  the following  trinomial                     form,
          by
                        y' + Cy'     + E^O,
                                                                                   (71.)
as it was reduced, by the former process, to the form

                      y5 + D> + E' = 0. . . (70.)
Mr. Jerrard, to whom the discovery of these transformations

is due, has remarked that by changing y to -- we get two other
                                                                   %

trinomial forms to which the general equation of the fifth de
gree   may be reduced   ; so  ethqauta, tiionnsa,nyitfuwtuilrlebreespeearrmchiettsedrestpoecstet
ing                    such
      the solution of
A^+EaO,out toith any one orf'th+ese four trinomial forms,

                      :r5+B.rs + E = 0,                                         "      '
                      x5 + C;rs + E = 0, I '                                       *

                      x5 + D x + E = 0,

in which the intermediate coefficient A or B or C or D may evi

dently be made equal to unity, or to any other assumed number
different from zero. We may, for example, consider the diffi
culty of resolving the general equation of the fifth degree as re
METHOD OF TRANSFORMING AND RESOLVING EQUATIONS. 307

duced by Mr. Jerrard's researches to the difficulty of resolving
an equation of the form
                          x^ + x + EssO;
                                                                                                       (73.)
or of this other form,
                  XT' -- ar+E = 0
It is, however,                                                                                        (74.)
                  important to remark that the coefficients of
these new or transformed equations will often be imaginary, even
when the coefficients of the original equation of the form (69)
are real.
   [6.] In order
consideration of   to accomplish  thneexttrapnrsofcoeremd,a) tioMnr.(2Je0r),ra(rtod                    the
                  which we shall                                                                       as

/sumes, in general, an expression with twelve terms,

y = (x) = A' xK' + A" »X" + A'" xk'"
J of+ W x* + M" a?" + W" X*'" + MIV
                                                                                               . (75 .)

+ N' + N" x* + N'" x'"' + N1V x'" + Nv x'" 5 .

the twelve unequal exponents,

V, A", A , ft ,                ft,v,                                                           v\vIV, . . (76.)
;
                                             f*.
                                    ,
                                               p.

                                       ,
                                                         ,v

                                                                                    v

                                                         ,

                                                                                            v

                                                                ',
being chosen at pleasure out of the indefinite line of integers
(22) and the twelve coefficients,

   A', A", A'", M', M", M'", MIV, N', N", N'", NIV, Nv, (77-)

or rather their eleven ratios, which may be arranged and grouped
as follows,

            A""   A""       M"'                                                                          (78.)
                           MIV                                                                 ' ' (79.)
            M'     M"
                  M,v    N'" NIV                                                                         (80.)
            M1V'         Nv Nv
                  N" '
            N'    Nv'
            Nv'                '
                                    '

                                          '

            MIV                                                                                        (81.)

            Nv'

            WA'"                                                                                       (82.)

being then determined so as to satisfy the system                                              of the  three

conditions        A' =

                         0, 0,    ..        (8.)
                                            (14.)
                  C=                ·..     (19.)

                                        0,
                  D'-«B'J =
                               x2
308 SIXTH REPORT -- 1836.

by satisfying another system, composed of eleven equations,
tawhnhediclthahwear(ce5o)onobdtfiattiihnoeendfo(1rbm4y) adinteitocoonmsoepfvoetshinnegnefowtuhreeqcocueoafntfiiodcniitesin,otnsas(A8fo'),lliBonw't,osC.th, rDeBey,,

and by the assumed expression (/5), those four coefficients are
rational and integral and homogeneous functions, of the first,
second, third, and fourth degrees, of the twelve coefficients (77) ;
and therefore, when these latter coefficients are distributed into

three groups, one group containing A', A", A'", another group
containing M', M", M"', MIV, and the third group containing
....N', N", N'", NIV, Nv, the coefficient or function A' may be de

composed into three parts,
          AA- = Ai>0,o + "-'0,1,0 +                        0,0,1 >              (83.)

Cand the coefficient or function                           may be decomposed in like
c cmanner into ten parts,
                 ---- ^ 3,0,0 + C'2,1,0
          c,+ C'l.S.O +
                       C1),1)1, +        Il0,s                                  (84.)

          c+ ^ 0,3,0 + c0)8), + C 0,1,8 + 0,0,3jJ

in which each of the symbols of the forms A'A ( k and C'A . k de

notes a rational and integral function of the twelve quantities
(77) 5 which function (A'A (. . or C'A . .) is also homogeneous
     thdeimednimsieonnsioinwihthwrietshperectspteoctthteo                       A", A"', of
of                                                         the quantities  A',  M'", MIV,
the                                                                        M",
                                                           quantities M',
and of the dimension k with respect to the quantities N', N",
CsON'", Nlv, Nv. Accordingly Mr. Jerrard decomposes the condi
tions A' = 0 and         into ten others, which may be thus ar

ranged :

     A ^0,0 = 0, C 3A0 = 0 ;                                                    (85.)
     A',,i,o = 0, 0'^,, = 0, C',,s,o = 0;
                                                                                (86.)
     A'o,0,, = 0, C'a,o,. = 0, C',.,,, = 0, C',,0,4 = 0; . . (87.)

     C'0,3.0 + C'o,»,, + C'o,,., + C'0i0,3 = 0 ; . . . . . (88.)

nine of the thirteen parts of the expressions (83) and (84) being
made to vanish separately, and the sum of the other four parts
being also made to vanish. He then determines the two ratios
(78), so as to satisfy the two conditions (85) ; the three ratios
(79), so as to satisfy the three conditions (86) ; the four ratios
(80), so as to satisfy the four conditions (87) ; and the ratio
(81), so as to satisfy the condition (88); all which determina
tions can in general be successively effected, without its being
METHOD OP TRANSFORMING AND RESOLVING EQUATIONS. 309

necessary to resolve    any equation higher than  the third degree.
The first part of the  process is now completed,   that is, the two
conditions (8) and (14),

                       A' = 0, C'=0,

are now both satisfied by an expression of the form

              y =/(*) = A'" $(*)+Nvx(*)                      (89.)

which    is   analogous to (33), and in which the functions  $ (x)
         (*)  are known, but the multipliers A'" and Nv are  arbi
and x
trary; and the second and only remaining part of the process
consists in determining the remaining ratio (82), of A'" to Nv,
by resolving an equation of the fourth degree, so as to satisfy the
iy-aB«remaining condition,
                            = 0. . . (19.)

   [7«] Such, then, (the notation excepted,) is Mr. Jerrard's ge

neral process for reducing the equation of the wi"1 degree,

to the form                 + &c. = 0, . . (1.)

Y=ym + Fy*-2 + «B"y"-4 + E' ym~5 + &c. = 0, (20.)

without resolving any auxiliary equation of a higher degree than
the fourth. But, on considering this remarkable process with

attention, we perceive that if we woidd avoid its becoming illu
sory, by conducting to an expression for y which is a multiple
of tbe proposed polynome X, we must, in general, (for reasons

analogous to those already explained in discussing the transfor
mation (12),) exclude all those cases in which the functions

4> (x) and x \x)> m tne expression (89), are connected by a re

lation of the form

             X (*) = «(*) +*X; . . (36.)

because, in all the cases in which such a relation exists, the first
part of the process conducts to an expression of the form

              y = (A"' + a Nv) $ (*) + XNVX, . . . . (90.)

and then the second part of the same process gives in general
                \(A'" + a Nv)4 = 0,
that is                                                      (91.K

and ultimately  A"' + «Nv = 0,                               (92.)

                       y = ANvX                              (93.)
310 SIXTH REPORT -- 1836.

On the other hand, the second part of the process cannot
conduct to this useless form for y, unless the first part of the
has led to functions, $ (x), x ix)> connected                                 by a rela
                                                                              the intro
the form (36.). This consideration suggests                                  definition.
of the following new system of equations of
W°process
                           + N'"*/""0 + NIV50(',V) + Nv sy> ]
tion of
duction
N' *<" +

                                                                         = p"o,

                                                                                       (94.)

N' «m<--° 1 +  N"  >W      ,1  +  N'»   sT^O --"\1  +  N>v  sT^O--'\l +  Nv  sI^B--\1
                     TO--

                                                                         = *"to-.»

N' L(,,) + N" L(/,) + N"' L(/W) + N1VL(,'V) + Nv L(,V) = N, (95.)

                               Pto-1l=y,                                               (96)

                               i»TO- 1
p"» -p'p9= q'o> p'\ -p'pi = 7\> ··· ym_2 -p' pTO-2

                                                                         =«'T«O--- 2 ·(970

to be combined with the definitions (46), (47), (48), (49), (54),
(55), and with the following, which may now be conveniently
used instead of the definition (50),

                           A+ M+ N=L                                                   (98.)

In this notation we shall have, as before,

'}P'o = 90 +PPo> P>l = qi+ PPl> --P'm-2 = 9m-2                                         (56.)

           + PPm-2>P'm-l=PPm-l>

and shall also have the analogous expressions

p"o = J'o + p'po, P"i = 4\ + p'Pi , -- p"m-2 = qfm-2                             !} (990

          + P>Pm-2, P"m-1 =P>Pm-li

the expression (75) for y will become
-1y =/(*) = Po + p'o + p>'o + (pi + p'i + p"i) * +
/+                                                                                     (l00)

.
               (*.-!           + P'to-i  + P"m-x            ) *m-X       + L X,
\\ At is, by (56) and (99),

y =»/(*)=(! +p+p') (p0+pl x+ .» +pm.i *m_1)

+ ?0 + ?'o + ('?1 + !?/l)^+-+(?B,_2 + ?'m-2>-l''"~2 Uioi.)

                                           + LX:.
METHOD OF TRANSFORMING AND RESOLAING EQUATIONS. 311

and the excluded case, or case of failure, will now be the case
/,,_,when the sums p'0 + p"0, p\ + p'\, ... p'm_l +
                                                                                are

proportional to p0, pl} ... pm_\, that is, when

                                         = ... qm_2 q'm_Q = 0.
           it q'0
              is

                     0,

                              q\

                                             0,
   q0 +             = y, +                         +                 . (102.)
                                                                     .
Indeed,             here tacitly supposed that pm_x does not vanish;
                                                                            is
but Mr. Jerrard's method itself supposes tacitly that at least
some one, such as pit of the m quantities p0, ... pm_\> dif

ferent from and
                    0,                   easy, upon occasion, to substitute any

                              it

                                     is

such non-evanescent quantity p. for pm_x, and then to make

the few other connected changes which the spirit of this discus ·
sion requires.
   The expression             (101)  for f(x), combined    with the  law  (5) of
                             of the                                  for  those
the composition                      coefficients A' and  C, gives,

coefficients, expressions of the forms,

   A' =             +p       p<) A''I)0)0 + A»0)1>0 + A"0)0)i,
           (1 (1    p                                                     (103.)
and
                          +
   c=(i +p+p,r c3)0>0+ +p +p'y (CV.0+CV,,)]
                                         + (i                         Wl04.)
       kiJ. T j-+ + + p>) (C1A0 + C"1>M + C"1;0)S)
                                                h                    >
         P" P"+ ^nn0,3,0 + ^ 0,2,1 j_ *-" 0,1,4 ^ C^.ii 0,0,85

A"A and C"h ik being rational and integral functions of the,-

   m--3      quantities p0,px, --Pm-i, g0,2        ?i> -- 9m-2>      L,?'o» ?'i> ···
y'm-25                                             of p, p', and
           which functions are independent                                and are

homogeneous of the dimension                       with respect to p0, ... pm_13

of the dimension with respect to q0, ... qm_2, and of the di
              k

                      i
mension             with respect to q>0, ... q'm_2; they are also such

that the sums

                             A"o,,,o A'V,                                 (»05.)

                    and cVo + cv.                                         (106-)

are homogeneous functions, of the 1st dimension, of the m --                    1
sums q0 q'0, ... qm_2 + ?',,,_2; while the sum
is is
                        C"1A0 + C"M)1 + C%8                               (107.)
    aa
   homogeneous function, of the 2nd dimension, and the sum
              1

                 +
             C'Vo + C'W C'W + C"oA3 · · · (108.)+

      homogeneous function, of the 3rd dimension, of the same
m -- quantities. These new expressions, (103) and (104), for
312 SIXTH REPORT 1836.

the coefficients A' and C, must identically coincide with the
former expressions (83) and (84),                       when we return from   the pre
sent to the former notation, by                          changing p, p1, p0,   pl} ...
Pm-i> ?o» 9i, ··· ?m-2i g'o, y*!. ··· y'm-a. t0 their                vaIues **
functions of A', a", A'", M', M", M'", M1V, N', N", N»               N"', Nv ;
and hence it is easy to deduce the following identical equations :

AA*'*1,0,0 ----"                                     1
                  1,0,0 >

A'w=M"w + A"w! >                                                              (109.)
JAAo',o,i----
           P«'    AA"           a+.  AA"          ·  I
                         1,0,0             0,0,1  >

and

^ 3,0,0 -- ^ 3,0,0 >

Cg.1,0 = 3/> C"8i0j0 + C'g^o;
^8,0,1 = 3p'C"gj0)o + C"g,o,i ;

C 1,8,0 = &P C 3,0,0 + 2p C J,,,,, + C 1)8)0 ;

G\,l,l = epp>C\0t0+ 2p>C\l>0+ 2pC\0>l + C\l)li                                (110.)
Pw CwC,A, = 3p»
                                     + 2p»              + C"li0>9 ;

CVo + Cw>1 + C'0il>2 + C'0|0>3 = (p + p^C'Vo

+ (p+p')9(C"9>1,o + C"s,0..)

+ (p+pO(CVo + c\m + c»1A8)
C C+ 0>3,0 + 0,9,1 C+ 0,1,2 + C o,0^'

   The system of the ten conditions (85), (86), (87), (88), may
therefore be transformed to the following :

AVo-0,=A"1>0>00,  C'3)0)o = 0;                                               (111.)
                                                                              (112.)
                  CV.o-0, C1A0-0j                                    . . (113.)

A%,. = 0, C'9;0>1 = 0, C"1>1;1 = 0, C1|0>, = 0 ;                               (114.)

C'Vo + C"oA1 + C'0(1>4 + C"o,0>3 = 0 ;

and may in general he treated as follows. The two conditions
(111) may first be combined with the m equations of definition
(46), and employed to determine the m + 2 ratios of the m + 3
quantities p0, ···pm_y, A', A", A'"; and therefore to give a re
sult of the form

                  A' **' + A" **" + A'" a*'" = A«> $ (x), . . (115.)

the function <$ (jr) being known. The three conditions (112),
combined with the 2 m equations (47) and (56), may then be
METHOD OF TRANSFORMING AND RESOLVING EQUATIONS. 313

used to determine the 2 m + 3 ratios of the 2 m + 4 quantities

9o, ··· qm-*> PPn-v P>o, ··· P'v.-i, M', M", M"', MIV, and
consequently to give

M'**' + M>xr" + M'"x^'" + M1V s^ = M1V* (*), (116.)

^ (x) denoting a known function. The four conditions (113)
- -^.N,may next be combined with the 2 m equations (94) and (99), so
as to  d*etmerm-*in,eJ*Pth*e-i,2l'm'o,+   4  ratios of  the  2 m + 5 quantities

to,                                                          N", N"', N'v, Nv;

and thus we shall have

N' x< + N" *** + N"' xJ" + NIV *'IV + Nv x'v = Nv « (*), (1 17.)

the  function eu  (.r)  also being            known; so that,                  at this  stage,
the  expression   (75)                                                        form
                        fory will            be reduced to the

     y =/(*) = A"' 4. (x) + MIV 4/ (*) + Nv« (x), . . (118.)

the three functions      $ (x),           Ntyv(,xb),einag>(xa)rbbiterianrgy.  known, but the
three coefficients A'",   MIV,                                                   The condition
(q101,4)...wiqllmn_eixttodeatenrymoinnee
                                          the ratio of any one of the quantities
                                          of the quantities j'0, ... g^m_2J and

therefore also the connected ratio of MIV to Nv, and conse
quently will give

             MIV4/(*) + Nvo>(:r) = NvX(*), . . . (119.)

X (x) being another known function ; and thus we shall have
accomplished, in a way apparently but not essentially different

from that employed in the foregoing article, the first part of Mr.
Jerrard's process, namely, the discovery of an expression for y,
...of the form
                                                                              (89.)
        y=/(x) = A'"<f»(x) + NvxW,

which satisfies the two conditions

                                          A' = 0, C' = 0,

             <J>

                       x

                                is

                                       it
                                                  0,

                                                                                       :

                                                                          it

                                                                      if
the functions (x) and ix) being determined and known, but
the multipliers A"' and Nv being arbitrary after which will
only remain to perform the second part of the process, namely,

-the determination of the ratio of A'" to Nv, so as to satisfy the

remaining, condition
                                  D' * Bn =

by resolving a biquadratic equation.
             The advantage of             this new   way of presenting the first part
of  [M8.r].  Jerrard's process                 that    enables us to perceive, that

we would avoid the case of failure above mentioned, we must in
general exclude those cases in which the ratios
314 SIXTH REPORT 1836.

   tfm-2 4m-2             tim-l                                             (120.)

determined, as above explained, through       the medium                    of the
conditions (113), coincide with the ratios

determined, at an earlier stage, through the medium of the con
ditions (112). In fact, when the ratios (120) coincide with the
ratios (121), they necessarily coincide with the following ratios
also,

    % + 9o      ?i + gi               U-a+tfrn-s                            ,,Ml
9m-2+7m-2   9m-2 + 9 m-2
                                      9m-2 + 9 m-2

and unless the ratios, thus determined, of the m -- 1 sums
?o + ?'o> ··· 7m-2 + ?'m-2» are accidentally such as to satisfy
the condition (114), which had not been employed in determi*
ning them, then that condition, which is a rational and integral
and homogeneous equation of the third degree between those
quantities, will oblige them all to vanish, and therefore will con
duct to the case of failure (102). Reciprocally, in that case of
failure, the ratios (120) coincide with the ratios (121), because
we have then

9o = --%>   -- ~9l> '·· 4m-2~ --lm-2- · · · (123.)
            <t\

                                          is
The case to be excluded, in general,          therefore that in which
the m -- quantities ^0, ... ym_2 are proportional to the m --
1                                                                                 \1

quantities q0, ... qm_<i', and this consideration suggests the in

troduction of the following new symbols or definitions,

            9m -- = 9,                                                      /,,,,.
            9m-2
            ~a                                                              (124.)
                    2

tfo-9 9o=ro, <fi-q fi-ru ... q',,_3 -qqm.3=rm_3; (125.)

because, by introducing these, we shall only be obliged to guard
against the simultaneous vanishing of the m -- quantities

r0, r,, ... rm_3; that is, we shall have the following simplified
            0,
                          0,
                                                  0

                                                                         2
-statement of the general case of failure,
   r0 = r,     ... rm_3 =                                                   (126.)

   Adopting, therefore, the definitions (124) and (125), and con
sequently the expressions
METHOD OF TRANSFORMING AND RESOLVING EQUATIONS. JJ15

^»-3 = ^-3+?!?n,-3>!Z',»-2=2r2rm-2,j ' ' " **                                                                                                '

which give

Jf?o + ?*o = (1 + ?) ?o + ro> ?i + ?\ = (1 + q) q,   + rls ..."|                                                               (128.)
                                                     +Sr'fl.-2
Sfw-3 + S'm-S = (*+?) ?TM-S + rm-S> ft»-2
               = (*+q)qm-2,

-we easily perceive that the three homogeneous functions (105)
(106) (107), of these m       1 sums q0 + q'0, ... qm_2 + q'm_2,

may be expressed in the following manner :

AVo + A%, r. (1 + q) A%,0 + A'"ml | '. . (129.)
»CV,o + ©'2,0,1
                              (1 + q) C\1)0 + C"'9;0>1 ; . . (130.)

0"w + C»I>UI + C"1>0>8 = (1 + q)* C"'lj9i0 -,        '      ·  · V31-*

                    (l+ + (7)C"'I)1>1 + C"'l)0,2;J

the symbol A'"A ; A or ©"*< * denoting here a rational and inte
gral function of the 3 m -- 3 quantities p0, ... 2>m_i, q0> ···

?»-2> >'o> ··« ^OT_3> which  is, like the function A"A>i)Jt or C"hik}
                                k
homogeneous of the dimension with respect to p0, ...pm_l, and
of the dimension with respect to q0, ... ?,,,_2, but homo
               i                                               is
                                                                          is
geneous of the dimension with respect to r0, ... rm_3, and
                           k

C'jijindependent of q'0, ... y'OT_2 and of p,p', q; whereas A"A,                                                               {             or
                                                                                                                                  k

was homogeneous of the dimension              k      with respect to

g'o, ···2r'OT_25 and was independent of r0, ... rfll_3. The three
identical equations (129) (130) (131) may be decomposed into
the seven following, which are analogous to (60) (and (61)
            qC
                      j
                       C

                                q

                        2j

                                                  q

                                                    >C

                                                                               5;

                                                                                                          ·
                                                                                                             5

                                                                                       "I ·

                                                                                                                          .
                                                                                                                                      :
A^ o,v = A"ni,oi A"0|0]] = A",,,,^ +          o^, , .                                                                          (132.)
" 9,1,0=
               2,1,0}    qC=g,o,]  g,1>0 +    2,0,1            · (133.)

C"i,9,o = C'"i,2,o C"i,i,i =       C'"l,9,0 + C'"l,l,l                                                                                 ,. _

^ 1,0,4 --     T^ 1,9,0    T^ 1,1,1  ^ 1,0,9            -*

and, in virtue of these, the seven conditions (112) and (113) may
be put under the forms,

   A'"o,1,o =  C'''S1(0 =0, 0,                                                                                                 (135.)
and                                  0, 0,                                                                                     (136.)
               ©Vi =                                       0,
   A\0(1 =
                                                                                                                            .
                              C"'1;S)0=0,

                              0",,,,, =       C"'lj0)S = 0.
816 SIXTH REPORT-- 1836.

The three conditions of the group (135) differ only in their no
tation from the three conditions (112), and are to be used ex
actly like those former conditions, in order to determine the

ratios of q0, ... ?OT_2> a^r tne ratios of p0, ... pm_y have
been determined, through the help of the conditions (111) ; but,
in deducing the conditions     (136) from the conditions (113),    a
real simplification has been   effected (and not merely a change  of

notation) by suppressing several terms, such as q A'"^,,,, which
vanish in consequence of the conditions (112) or (135). And
since we have thus been led to perceive the existence of a group,
(136), of four homogeneous equations (rational and integral) be
tween the m -- 2 quantities r0, r, , ... rn_3)we see, at last, that
we shall be conducted, in general, to the case of failure (126),

in which all those quantities vanish, unless their number m -- 2
be greater than four
equation in x be at    ; that  is, unless  ththeemdiengorreelimofitthseepveronp. oseIdt
                       least   equal to

results, then, from this analysis, that for equations of the sixth

and lower degrees, Mr. Jerrard's process for effecting the trans
formation (20), or for satisfying the three conditions (8) (14)
and (19),
           D'-A' = 0, C m 0,
                                           a B* m 0,

will, in general, become illusory, by conducting to an useless
expression, of the form (93), for the new variable y ; so that it
fails, for example, to reduce the general equation of the fifth
degree,
 ....ri+A^+B/ + Ca! + Dii! + E=0,                        .. (69.)

to He Moivre's solvihle form,                                         (137.)

         y' + BV+}B^fE' = 0,
except, by an useless assumption, of the form

y = L{ar> + Ax4 + Bx* + C#«+ Dx + E), . . (138.)

which gives, indeed, a very simple transformed equation, namely,

                       y6 = 0J                                   (139.)

but affords no assistance whatever towards resolving the pro
posed equation in x. Indeed, for equations of the fifth degree,
the foregoing discussion may be considerably simplified, by ob
serving, that, in virtue of the eight conditions (112) (113) (114),
the four homogeneous   functions (105) (106)             (108),  of the
m -- 1 sums q0 + q*0,  ... g,m_2 + q'm-2> are  a(1U07=)  0, and  there

fore also (in general) those sums themselves must vanish (which
is the case of failure (102),) when their number wi -- 1 is not
METHOD OF TRANSFORMING AND RESOLVING EQUATIONS. 317

greater than four, that is, when the proposed equation is not

higher than the fifth degree. But the foregoing discussion
(though the great generality of the question has caused it to be

rather long) has the advantage of extending even to equations
of the sixth degree, and of showing that even for such equations
the method generally fails, in such a manner that it will not in
general reduce the equation

     xe + Axi + Ba!*+Cx3 + Da* + 'Ex + F = 0                                          (140.)
                                                                                      (141.)
to the formy + B'y4 + «B'V + E'y + F'=0, . .

except by the assumption

iy = L(*6 + A^ + Bx* + C^ + Dir8 + Ex + F); (142.)

ywhich gives, indeed, a very simple result, namely,                                   (143.)
                                             = 0»

but does not at all assist us to resolve the proposed equation
(140.). However, this discussion may be regarded as confirming

the adequacy of the method to transform the general equation
of the seventh degree,
f E'/x7 + A.x6+Bxb + Cxi + I>ari + Exi+Fx + G = 0, (144.)
to another of the form            + Vy + G' = 0, . . (145.)

yi + B'y* + a B« +

A/+·without assuming y = any multiple of the proposed evanescent
polynome i7 +           &c. ; and to effect the analogous trans
formation (20), for equations of all higher degrees ; a curious
and unexpected              for which algebra    is indebted                          to Mr.
                discovery,
Jerrard.

lsiottl[fe9a.r]imaTshpeiotrrtreaesnsupcleetc;otsbbteaeciqnaueuadsteiobnytshtehoefefqtohureeagtisooiinxntgh(1dd4ies1cg)u,resesti,oontwo hmbiceahyofistevehemarys,
been shown that the method fails to      reduce
(140), is notit9elf, in general, of any  known   the general equation
                             for                 solvible form, what
ever value may be   chosen  the   the arbitrary  multiplier a. But it
must be observed                  method hacl    in fact been adequate
                   that if

to effect that general transformation of the equation of the sixth
degree, without resolving any     auxiliary equation of
gree than the fourth, then it     would also have been                                a higher de
                                                                                       adequate to
reduce the same general equation (140) of the sixth degree to
....this
other  form, which is obviously   and easily     solvible,

          y+B'y+D'y* +            F' = 0,                                             (146>)

by first assigning an expression of the form
       y = /(*) = A"' (x) Nv (x), . (89.)
                            <J>

                                     +

                                          x

                                                                                   .
318 SIXTH REPORT 1836.

which should satisfy the two conditions

                         A' = 0, . . . (8.)

                         C' = 0, . . . (14.)

and by then determining the ratio of A'" to Nv, so as to satisfy
this other condition,

                              E' = 0, . . . . . . . (147.)
which could be done without resolving any auxiliary equation of
a higher degree than the fifth ; and this reduction, of the diffi
culty of the sixth to that    of thefifth  degree, would          have been a
very important result, of    which it was  interesting to         examine the

validity. The foregoing discussion, however, appears to me to
prove that this transformation also is illusory ; for it shows that,
because the degree of the proposed equation is less than the mi
nor limit 7» the functions 4>{x) and % (x) in (89) are connected
by a relation of the form (36) ; on which account the expression
(89) becomes

       y = f{x) = (A'" + a Nv) $ (*) + X Nv X, . . (90.)
and the condition
gives, in general,       .....E' = 0, . . (147.)                                                      (148.)
that is,
                         (A'"+aNv)5 = 0,

                         A'" + aNv=0; . . (92.)
so that finally the expression for y becomes
                         y = A Nv X, . . . . (93.)

y             takes  in  g+enBerjatl4t+heCerv'id+ently  useless  form,
                +                                         +
        is,                                                      + F).

          it
L(/ A? D/ Eithat                                                        (142.)
    =
           Mr. Jerrard has   not actually stated, in his         published                            Re
    [10.]                     which he would effect              in general                           the
searches,    the process by

transformation (15), so as to take away four terms at once from
the equation of the m**1 degree, without resolving any auxiliary
equation of higher degree than the fourth but he has suffi
ciently indicated this process, which appears to be such as the
following. He would probably assume an expression with
y

                  +
                        a

                        +
                                 ++
                                                +
                                                    +
                                                                       +

                                                                                                   ;

                                                    J
twenty-one terms for the new variable,

=f{x) = \'xK' A" a*" + a'"xx'"                          M,v **,v

        + W x*' + M" X*" W" x*'"

              N' x'' N" x'" N'" x'"' + NIV x'TM                                                       (149.)
                      + NV#'V + NVI*'V'

+ Ef x*              B" x*' + B'" x?" + S,v x^ + Sv a?
                       + fiVI x?' + Byilx?'"+ Svm xiu",
METHOD OF TRANSFORMING AND RESOLVING EQUATIONS. 319

and would develop or decompose the coefficients A', B', C, of

the transformed equation in y, considered as rational and inte
gral and homogeneous functions of the twenty-one coefficients,

A', A", A'",                          eVIII                                         (150.)
M', M", M'", MIV,                                                                   (151.)
                                                                                    (152.)
N', N", N'", NIV, Nv, NVI,                                                          (153.)
a , a , a , a , a , a , a=vn

into the following parts :

="· " 1,0,0,0 + A- 0,1,0,0 + -A- 0,0,1,0 + A- 0,0,0,1 5                             (154.)
" " " += 2,0,0,0 +
1,1,0,0                     TM 1,0,1,0 + B'i,o,o,i

"~*~-"0,9,0,0 + "0,1,1,0 + -"0,1,0,1                                                (155.)
                                                                                    (156.)
+ "0,0,2,0 + "0,0,1,1 + 0,0,0,2 >

C T T^C.l -- ^3,0,0,0 M ^C2I,1,0,0 _i_ ^Ci 2,0,1,0 -+I- C^I 2,0,0,1

C+ C i>2)0)0 + C 1>1)1|0 +  1j1)0j1

C C+ 1,0,2,0 > ^ 1,0,1,1 + 1,0,0,2

+ ^ 0,3,0,0 + ^ 0,2,1,0 + ^ 0,2,0,1

+ ^ 0,1,2,0 t" ^ 0,1,1,1 + ^ 0,1,0,2

C C"" 0,0,3,0 + C 0,0,2,1 + C0,o,l^ +  o,0,0^ 3
(\weach part A'A)iM or B'M>M or
                                                                     being  itself  a rational

and integral function of the twenty-one quantities (150) (151)
(152) (153), and being also homogeneous                              of   thdeegrdeeegrieewihthwirteh
respect to the three quantities (150), of                            the

spect to the four quantities (151), of the degree k with respect
to the six quantities (152), and of the degree I with respect to
the eight quantities (153). He would then determine the two
ratios of the two first to the last of the three quantities (150)
(that is, the ratios of A' and a" to A'") so as to satisfy                          the two
conditions                                                                            (15/.)

      ....A- i,o,o,o = Oj ^2,0,0,0 = 0 ;
the three ratios of the first three to the last of the four quanti
" " ....A o,i,o,o = 0,
ties (151), so as to satisfy the three conditions

1,1,0,0 = 0,                          =0;0,2,0,0                                    (158.)

the ratio of the last of the quantities (150) to the last of the
quantities (151), so as to satisfy the condition

^'3,0,0,0 + C'2)]00 + C'1>2|0)0 + C'OAOi0 = 0; . . . (159.)
320 sfxth report -- 1836.

the five ratios of the five first to the last of the six quantities
(152), so as to satisfy the five conditions

       "0,0,1)0 = 0)             = 0,                         I

       " 1,0,1,0 "+" *» 0,1,1,0                               )>....j

       B'0,o,«,o=0,                                           r (160.)

       C^ 2,0,1,0 +         C =1,1,1,0 +                  0>
                                          0,8,1,0

       C^ 1,0,8,0 +         0,1,8,0 = 0 >

the seven ratios of the seven first to the last of the eight quan
tities (153), so as to satisfy the seven conditions

       A =0,0,0,1       0>
       "·" 1,0,0,1 +
                            =0,1,0,1  0»

       TM            =  0,            B 0,0,0,8 = ^J                              (161.)
            0,0,1,1

       C C«,o,o,i + CI 1)1>0ji +          0j9)0)i = 0,

       C'i,o,i,i + C'0,1,1,1 = 0,

       C C1,0,0,8 +     0,1,0,8 = 0 ;

and the ratio of the last of the quantities (152) to the last of
the quantities (153), so as to satisfy the condition

       C 0,0,8,0 + ^'0,0,8,1 + C'0,0,1,8 + C'0)0>0^ -- () : · · · (162.)
all which determinations could in general be successively ef
fected, without its being necessary to resolve any equation of a
higher degree than the fourth. The first part of the process
would be now completed ; that is, the assumed expression (149)
for y would be reduced to the form

       y=f{x) = MTM4(x) + BTMx(*), · · · · (163.)

                     <f>

                                     0, %
                                                      0,
                                                                      0
                                                                               ;
the functions        (x) and (x) being determined and known, but
the multipliers Mlv and Svul being arbitrary, and this expression
(163) being such as to satisfy the three conditions (8) (10) and
(14),
                        A' =          B' =                C=

nineteen out of the twenty ratios of the twenty-one coefficients
(150) (151) (152) (153) having been determined so as to satisfy
the nineteen                                       (159) (160) (161) (162), into
which those    equations (157)        (158)        been decomposed. And the
               three conditions         had

second and only remaining part of the process would consist in
then determining the remaining ratio of MIV to Svni, so as to
satisfy the remaining condition

                            D' =      0,   .              . (170

                                                       .
   MBTHOD OF TRANSFORMING AND RESOLVING EQUATIONS. 321
and thereby to reduce the general equation of the m01 degree,

                 + E x*"-5 + &c. = 0,                (1.)

to the form

Y=y» E'y-5tatIihtsaeliMsorernps.eopJseewscriborta,lue+rl,ddn'osontfaoucttinoobupnerusbfebo+,leiusitnnh&hdgeacdt.taot=plwhrdoiasi0cfyf.esemsrsae,.yfxrocbne.mouptttteb(hdiieets. .po)srteheeIectmrisisiesn,lylaiaknttyehleleeyassssatthem,aneta
process suggested by the    published researches of that author,
and harmonizing with the    discoveries which they contain.
                            new process the spirit of the former
   But by applying to this
discussions, and putting, for abbreviation,

a',0m + a«50(o + a'//^"') + Wgy> +

                 + MTMs0^=p0f

A'^\+W*'\w-- 1m-- I +A"',("Xm'"-)l + M'*1IM---'.I +  ...(164.)

                 + M« >IV-1) -- Pm-l,

                                                     (165./

                                                     (166.)

s'^m1--+1 ...+s-"S«vm,,--;)1=/,»" m-- 1, ,

a' L(V) + A" I>"> + A'" I>'"> + M' I>'> + ...

+ N'LC) + ... + NVI L<'v'> + S'L(« +                 (167.)
            + gviiiL(S"») = L,

we may change the expression (149) to the form (100), through
the theorem and notation (44) ; and in order to avoid the case
of failure, in which the functions  x<p {x) and (*") m (163)  are
vol. v.-- 1836.             y
322 SIXTH REPORT -- 1836.

connected by a relation of the form (36), we must avoid, as
in the discussion given in the seventh article, the case where the
m sums p'o+pf'of -- p'm-i + P"m-\ are proportional to the m
quantities p0, ... pm_\ , that is, the case
       ?o + f'o = 0, ... qm_2 + q'mU =0,     ...           (102.)

if we adopt  the definitions (54)  (y5m5)_aa,ndan(9d6j)/,  (97), so    as to in  ·
             symbols y,g0,g,, ...                           ?'o>7'iJ  -- ?'m-3
troduce the

With these additional symbols it is easy to transform the condi
tions (160) into others,  which (when suitably combined                 with
equations of definition,   and with the ratios of p0, ...                     the
                                                                      p,,_j    al

ready  previously determined through the help of           the conditions
(157)  (158) (159),) shall serve to determine the          ratios (121) of
9o> "· Vm--2 5 aim then to determine, in like manner, with the
help of the conditions (161), the ratios (120) of cf0, ...J,m_3;

after which, the condition (162) may be transformed into a ra
tional and integral and homogeneous equation of the third degree
between the sums q0 + ^q, ... qm_2 + Sr'm_a, and will in gene

ral oblige those sums to vanish, if their ratios (122) have been

already determined independently of this condition (162), which
will happen when the ratios (120) coincide with the ratios (121),
that is, when the quantities q'0, ... q'm_\ are proportional to
the quantities q0, ... 5rnt_) . We must, therefore, in general
avoid this last proportionality, in order to avoid the case of
failure (102) ; and thus we are led to introduce the symbols
q> ro> ri> ··· rm-s » defined by the equations (124) (125), and to
...express the case of failure by the equations
       »o = 0,  = ... rm_3 =0.
               +                                           (126.)

                      >·,

                            0,
                                                                                                          2
With these new symbols we easily discover that the seven con
ditions (161) may be reduced to seven rational and integral and
homogeneous    equations between the quantities r0, r,,               ... rm_3)
                                                                      therefore
which will in  general oblige them all to vanish, and
will produce the case of failure (126), unless the number m --
of these quantities be greater than the number seven, that is,
unless the exponent m of the degree of  the proposed
at least equal to the minor limit ten.                     equation be
this discussion, that the process         It results,      then, from
                                   described in the present article
will not in general avail to take
equations lower than the tenth     away four terms at once, from
                                   degree, and, of course, that it
will not reduce the general equation of the fifth degree,
       ari + A*4 Ba?3+Ca?2+D*+E=0, .. (69.)
   METHOD OF TRANSFORMING AND RESOLVING EQUATIONS. 323

to the binomial form y+E'=0,                                                                                (168.)

except by the useless assumption

   y = h{xi + Ax* + Bx° + Ca?! + Da? + E), . . (138.)

which gives                       y = 0. . . . (139.)

   [11.] A principal feature of Mr. Jerrard's general method is
to avoid, as much as possible, the raising of degree in elimina
tion ; and for that purpose to decompose the equations of con
idfitpioonssiibnlee, venroyt  question into groups, which                     shall each contain,
                                                                              higher degree than
                              more than one equation of a
the first ; although the occurrence of two equations of the second
degree in one group is not fatal to the success of the method,
because the final equation              of          rseuscohlveadgrboyupthbe eiknngowonnlyruelelesv.ateIdt
to the fourth degree, can               be
might, therefore, have been more completely in the spirit of this
general method, because it would have more completely avoided
the elevation of degree by elimination, in order to take away       °> if,
four terms at once from the general equation of the with degree,
we had assumed an expression with thirty-three terms, of the         IJ I I 0,
form                                                                                      0,
                                                                                                         .
CBC  = f(x) = A'x*-' A»xx" + A'"xx'"
  y                                  +
                                                 +
                        + Wx*' + ... MIV^IV

                              + N' x'' + . + Nv x'y
                                     .
                                        .

                                                                                                            (169.)

                        + Ox*' +     +.             0^x'VU
                                              .+    ,,VTTT ,,VIII
                        + W xw'

and had determined the six ratios of A', a", a'", M', . . . MIV,
and the twenty-five ratios of N', . . nvin, so as to satisfy the
thirty-one conditions
                                                C
   A 1,0,0,0,^0      =  °> C °j Oj  =8,0,0,0,0,0     0, 0,    B'0|jj00>0)0 m  ..                            (170.)
   A 0,1,0,0,0,0     =     B      =B'1>1>0)0j0)0                                                            (171.)
                                                             .
        3,0,0,0,0,0  + 8,1,0,0,0,0   +            1,8,0,0,0,0 + Co,s,o,o,o,o SS                             (172.)
                     =               =                                                                      (173.)
   A 0,0,1,0,0,0                                0,
                     + B'0,1,^0,0/)
        1,0,1,0,0,0
                     =
   B'0,0,8,0,0,0     +
                        C °>
   8,0,1,0,0,0                1,1,1,0,0,0 + C'o,g,,,0,o,o       --

                                                Y
                                                    2
324 SIXTH REPORT 1836.

^0,0,0,1,0,0               = Oj             = "»

" 1,0,0,1,0,0              + -"0,1,0,1,0,0                                              / · (174.)
"                          = 0,

     0,0,1,1,0,0

="0,0,0,4,0,0              0>

C^ 8,0,0,1,0,0 + ^1,1,0,1,0,0 +                   0,4,0,1,0,0, = ">-

   ^ 1,0,4,0,0,0           + C 1,0,1,1,0,0  C+ 1,0,0,4,0,0      ="                      ")                     (175.)
                                            C+ 0,1,0,4,0,0
C+ 0,1,4,0,0,0             0+ 0,1,1,1,0,0                                               J
                           = 0,             = 0,
  A 0,0,0,0,1,0
                           "+ 0,1,0,0,1,0
    ** 1,0,0,0,1,0

"0,0,1,0,1,0               + "0,0,0,1,1,0   = ^5                                                            >(176.)
"0,0,0,0,4,0               = 0,

"^ 4,0,0,0,1,0             C+ 1,1,0,0,1,0   C+ 0,4,0,0,1,0      = 0)                                 = 0, J
     1,0,1,0,1,0                            C+ 0,1,1,0,1,0      C+ 0,1,0,1,1,'
A-0,0,0,0,0,1              C+ 1,0,0,1,1,0
                                            = 0>
" 1,0,0,0,0,1              = Oj

                           "+ 0,1,0,0,0,1

"0,0,1,0,0,1               B+ 0,0,0,1,0,1   = °>
"0,0,0,0,1,1               = 0,
                                                                                                               (177.)

T"0V,0,0,0,0,4 ---- U0J

C C C =4,0,0,0,0,1 +
                               1,1,0,0,0,1 +      0,4,0,0,0,1                       ">

                                                                                        =0,1,0,1,1,0,1
C JC C^ 1,0,1,0,0,1 +                                                                                   0,
                               1,0,0,1,0,1 +      0,1,1,0,0,1 +

  C 1,0,0,0,4,0            C+ 1,0,0,0,1,1   C+ 1,0,0,0,0,4                   ~)                                (178.)
                           C+ 0,1,0,0,1,1   + C 0,1,0,0,0,4
"+ 0,1,0,0,4,0                                                  = 0, J

C^ 0,0^,0,0,0 + ^ 0,0,4,1,0,0 + ^0,0,4,0,1,0 +                                          0,0,4,0,0,1

+ ^0,0,1,4,0,0             + ^ 0,0,1,1,1,0  + ^ 0,0,1,1,0,1                                                    M179.)
C+ 0,0,1,0,4,0
                           C+ 0,0,1,0,1,1   C+ 0,0,1,0,1,0.,,4

+ ^ 0,0,0,3,0,0 + ^0,0,0,4,1,0 + '-'0,0,0,4,0, .1

c+ ^0U,0,U,0,U,1,I,¥4,,U0  + ^-- U0,0U,,0U,,11,,11,,11 + ^ 0U,0U,,0U,,11,,0U,',,22  C 0,0,0,0,0,3    = ",   _

+ ' 0,0,0,0,3,0            C C+ 0,0,0,0,4,1 + 0,0,0,0,1,4 +

into which the three conditions
METHOD OF TRANSFORMING AN0 RESOLVING EQUATIONS. 325

                 A' = 0, B' = 0, C = 0,
may be decomposed} the symbol A'^^,.*,, or B^?A>f>4>/, or

Cy- A| IjA| { denoting here a rational and integral function of the

/thirty-three coefficients A', . . . n*111, which is homogeneous of

the degree with respect to A', A", A'", of the degree g with
respect to M',   . . . M^, of the  degree     h with   respect to N', . . . Nv,
                                   Bl, . . .  B^1, of  the degree k with re
of the degree i  with respect to

spect to O1, . . . OVII, and of the degree I with respect to n', . . .
nvill : while the remaining ratio of MIV to nVIII> should after

wards be chosen so as to satisfy the remaining condition
                                     D' = 0.
But, upon putting, for abridgement,

       + «**«">yi\ =//,

                 jV,(-V)                      *jn                (180.)

m-- 1                   m-- 1                      m-- 1

                 m-- 1             m--1

      m-l m-1                                   m- 1 -'          (181.)
                                                                 (182.)
n'ab(-0 + ...+nvin.oC*vl,,>                   Po'",
                                                                 (183.)
                                   VIII,

m-- 1                   m-- 1

A' LM + A" I>"> + A'" I>'"> + M' L^ + . . .

+ N' LM + . . . + nvl('v) + an/fi + . . .

       + SVIL«VI)

L^+ 0> LW + . · + OVI1 L('V") + n'                        + ...

       + nVI» L<" VIIIs = L,
326 SIXTH REPORT. -- 1836.

                    ¥ 5 x = p",               -2 = ?"m 2'  (184.)
                                                           (185.)
  - -JP»-1                                                 (186.)

Po'" P>0 = Vo", · · · f'm 2 ~ P>»

                            g"m-2 =
                         ?m-2
                              a q>,
<-9'<lo=r<!,...q"m-3-q'qm-3 = r'm_i, . (187-)
                                      t
                     ,'m-3 =r,                                           (188.)
                       'm-3
                                         = tmi,. . . (189.)
rJ-rr0=tQ,...r,m 4-rrm
       t0 y
and retaining the    analogous expressions    (1e6x4a.)ct(l5y4.a)na(l5o5g.o)us(96t.o)
(970 (124.) (125.),0,we find, by reasoning

                      yr
that employed in the former discussions, that the final expres
sion for will in general be of the useless form
                          = LX,
                                                           (190.)

in the following case of failure,                                (191.)

          = tl=0, ...tm_i = 0;

and on the other hand that the seven conditions (177-) may be
reduced to the form of seven rational and integral and homoge

_neous equations between these m -- quantities t0, ... tm
                                     3                  3 t,
                                                                        4;
so that the case of failure will in general occur in the employ
ment of the present process, unless the number m -- be greater
than seven, that is, unless the degree m of the proposed equation
in x   be at  least equal to the minor limit  eleven.
       must,                                  the less  complex  pro
   It          however, be remembered that

cess described in the foregoing article, (since contained no
condition, nor group of conditions, in which the dimension, or
                                                 it

                                                                              ;
the product of the dimensions, exceeded the number four,) agreed

sufficiently with the spirit of Mr. Jerrard's general method
and was adequate to take away four terms at once from the ge
neral equation of the tenth, or of any higher degree.
[12.] The various processes described in the 2nd, 5th, 6th and
11th articles of this communication, for transforming the ge
neral equation of the mth degree, by satisfying certain systems
of equations of condition,  are connected with  tJheerrsaorldu,tio"ntoof  this
far more general problem                                                  dis
                             proposed by Mr.
cover m -- ratios of m disposable quantities,
              1

                     «,, a2, ...am,                              (192.)
METHOD OF TRANSFORMING AND RESOLVING EQUATIONS. 327

which shall satisfy a given system of A, rational and integral
and homogeneous equations of the first degree,
          .....A'=0, A" = 0,... A(*') = 0;
                                                                            (193.)

A, such equations of the second degree,                                     (194.)
                                                                            (195.)
           B' = 0, B" = 0, . . BW = 0 ;

A8 of the third degree,

         C = 0, a»«0,..C(*»> = 0;

and so on, as far as ht equations of the tth degree,                        (196.)

         T = 0, T" = 0,..TW = 0,

without being obliged in any part of the process, to introduce
any elevation of degree by elimination." Mr. Jerrard has not

published his solution of this very general problem, but he has
sufficiently suggested the method which he would employ, and
it is proper to discuss it briefly here, with reference to the ex
tent of its application, and the circumstances under which it
fails ; not only on account of the importance of such discussion
in itself, but also because it is adapted to throw light on all the

Ifquestions already considered.
        we a6ume

a, =      a",, at = a', + o"2, . . . am = a'm + a"m,
        a',                                                      .          (197-)
                                                                         .
           . if +

                                                hv
that is,  we decompose each of the in disposable quantities

a,, at, . . am into two parts, we may then accordingly decom
pose every one of the
                                                    proposed homogeneous functions of
those m quantities, which are of the first degree, namely,

          A', A", .. A«, .. A<*«>;                                          (198.)

every one of the proposed functions of the second degree,
          A3 A,
                                        ht

                                                              1
          B',B»,..B(«..BW;                                                  (199.)

every one of the functions of the third degree,                             (200.)

          C',C',..CW,..C(*»);

and so on, as far as all the firs,t -- functions of the rth de

gree,                                                                       (201.)

         T', T", ..T«, ..T^-1),

T^(the last function   being reserved for another purpose, which
328 SIXTH REPORT -- 1836.

will be presently explained,) into other homogeneous functions,
according to the general types,

A« = AMli0 + AM0,,
B» = B<»,, + B«M + BMM,
C«yC« = &*>,, +
                                    + <&>v + CWW } . (202.)

-tW TT(«0 = (,D +           M        4.  tM4. .'         J
                            I                      0, <
                               1, 1

each symbol of the class

AM, BW, CM,...TM,                                           (203.)
P<1 Pt9 P>9                    P<9

denoting a rational and integral and homogeneous function of

the 2 m new quantities,

         a\, dv . . . a'm,                                  (204.)

and

a",, «"«··· «",,»                                           (205.)

which function is homogeneous of the degree p with respect to
the quantities (204), and of the degree q with respect to the
quantities (205). By this decomposition, we may substitute,
instead of the problem first proposed, the system of the three
following auxiliary problems. First, to satisfy, by ratios of the
m quantities (204), an auxiliary system of equations, containing
Aj equations of the first degree, namely,

A'1>0 = 0, A»li0 = 0, ...A(*')1(0 = 0}                   .... (206.)
                                                                              (207.)
A9 equations of the second degree,

B%B%B'a>0 = 0,                           = 0;
= 0, . . .

h3 of the third degree,

     C's,0 = 0,C"3>0 = 0, ...C^3i0 = 0;                            (208.)
                                                            of the fth
and so on, as far as the following ht -- 1 equations
degree,

T'/f0 = 0,T''<)0 = 0,...T^-1) = 0                           (209.)

   Second, to satisfy, by ratios of the m quantities (205.), a sy
stem containing hx + h3 + h$ + . . . + ht -- 1 equations, which
are of the first degree with respect to those tn quantities, and
are of the forms
METHOD OF TRANSFORMING AND RESOLVING EQUATIONS. 329

                             CM         0,' . . . TW
                                2,1
    t-l,iAW BW       =               =                = 0 '; . . (v210.)'
        0,1     1,1
    = 0,'               0,'

^ + hs + . . . + ht -- 1 equations of the second degree, and of
the forms

    =C«BW0,'1,2 = 0, . . . TMf-2,2,, = 0;'                     (v211.)'
       0,2

^s + · · · + ht -- 1 equations of the third degree, and of the forms

    CM=0---T23,3 = 0;                                          <212->

and so on, as far as ht -- 1 equations of the rth degree, namely,

    TV = 0, T'0i, = 0, ...T^-1> = 0                            (213.)

And third, to satisfy, by the ratio of any one of the m quanti
ties (205.) to any one of the m quantities (204.), this one remain
ing equation of the rth degree,

                        TW = 0                                 (214.)

For if we can resolve all these three auxiliary problems, we shall
thereby have resolved the original problem also. And there is

this advantage in thus transforming the question, that whereas
there were ht equations of the highest (that is of the rth) degree,
in the problem originally proposed, there are only ht -- 1 equa
tions of that highest degree,        in each of the two first
problems, and only one such          equation in the third.    aIfu,xitlhiaerny,
we apply the same process of transformation to each of the two
first auxiliary problems, and repeat it sufficiently often, we shall
get rid of all the equations of the rth degree, and ultimately of
all equations of degrees higher than the first ; with the excep
tion of certain equations, which are at various stages of the pro
cess set aside to be separately and singly resolved, without any
such combination with others as could introduce an elevation of
degree by elimination. And thus, at last, the original problem
may doubtless be resolved, provided that the number m, of quan
tities originally disposable, be large enough.
    [13.] But that  some such condition respecting the
of                                                        magnitude
    that number m   is necessary, will easily appear, if  we observe

that when rn is not large enough to satisfy the inequality,

                 m > A, + A, + kg + . . . + ht, . . . . (215.)
then the original hy + hq + h3 + . . . + ht equations, being ra
tional and integral and homogeneous with respect to the original
330 SIXTH REPORT. 1836.

m quantities (192.), will in general conduct to null values for all

those quantities, that is, to the expressions

a, = 0, a9 = 0, . . . am = 0,                                (216.)

and therefore to a result which we designed to exclude ; because
by the enunciation of the original problem it was by the m -- 1
ratios of those m quantities that we were to satisfy, if possible,
the equations originally proposed. The same excluded case,       or
case of failure (216.), will in general occur when the solution  of
the second auxiliary problem gives ratios for the m auxiliary

quantities (205.), which coincide with the ratios already found in
resolving the first auxiliary problem for the m other auxiliary
d\ ...quantities (204.) ; that is, when the two first problems conduct

to expressions of the forms
= a a\, a"9 = a <r*9, . . . a"m = aa>m,                      (217.)

a being any common multiplier ; for then these two first pro
blems conduct, in virtue of the definitions (197-), to a determined

set of ratios for the m original quantities (192.), namely,
^ = ^,...^ = <^;
Mm w m                                                       (218.)

and unless these ratios happen to satisfy the equation of the
third problem (214), which had not been employed in determining
them, that last homogeneous equation (214.) will oblige all those
m quantities (192.) to vanish, and so will conduct .to the case of
failure (216). Now although, when the condition (215) is satis
fied, the first auxiliary problem becomes indeterminate, because

             m -- 1 > A, + A2 + A8 + . . . + ht -- 1,
so that the number m -- 1 of the disposable ratios of the m
auxiliary quantities (204) is greater than the number of the ho
mogeneous equations which those m quantities are to satisfy,
yet whatever system of m -- 1 such ratios

-7^, -£>  ~>                                                 219.

we may discover and employ, so as to satisfy the equations of
the first auxiliary problem, it will always be possible to satisfy

the equations of the second auxiliary problem also, by employ
ing the same system of m -- 1 ratios for the m other auxiliary
quantities (205), that is, by employing expressions for those
quantities of the forms (217); and, reciprocally, it will in ge
neral be impossible to resolve the second auxiliary problem
  METHOD OF TRANSFORMING AND RESOLVING EQUATIONS. 331
otherwise, unless the number of its equations be less than m -- 1.

For if we put, for abridgement,

                 < = a,                                                                                  (220.)

and

aP1-aa') = bl)a'li-aalt = bi,...a"m_l-aa!m_1 = bm_l, (221.)

we shall have, as a general system of expressions for the m
quantities (205.), the following,

a", = aafi + blt a"t = aal^ + bv . . . a"m_l = a a!m_l~                                                  (222.)

        + K-Va"m= aa'm'>

and therefore by (197),                                                     . . (223.)

^^a, = (1 + a) dx + b1} . . . am_l = (1 + a)

          + bm-l>am = (1 +«)°'«,5

so that the homogeneous functions A^"\ B^, .                                T(T> may be,

in general, decomposed in this new way,

A(-) = (l+a)A^) + A^);

B^B<*>
             = (v1   +  a)'*  B<®      +  v(1  +  a)'  1,1  +  B'W      ;'
                                  2,0
                                                                   0,2

                        a)<                                                      . (224.)

                                    +

                                             (1

                                                                              }
TW = (l +                     rW               + a)''1 !"<t*->1,0 +
                                  t,0

                        o,r

each symbol of the class

A«, B^>,                      rp(r)                                                                      (225.)

                                  P>9

denoting             rational and integral function of the m -- quan
tities o',,
mension              . a'm, A,, . Am _ j, which homogeneous of the di

                     with respect to the m quantities
             jp . a           .                        is
                                                                           J2
                                 q
                                                                                                      1
and of the dimension                                                            (204)
                                    with respect to the m -- quantities

b,,..bm_v                                                                                                (226.)

isbut independent of the multiplier a. And the identical equa
tions obtained by comparing the expressions (202) and (224),
resolve themselves into the following
                                                       :

                                                                                                                 S
332 SIXTH REPORT 1836.

A(.) = A(«) .       AW = aA'W    +T A<0"},1';
                        0,1 1,0
   1,0 1,0'
_ B^B(0
    2,0
       B««      ';  BW = 2 flBlC! +       ;
           2,0         1,1 2,0
                                     1,1

       Bg-NlS + .Brg + Bg,

!<>Tg,T<llil-«.Tg + T51w, ^. (2270

<-2,2               2          '.0 V ' 1-1,1

       + l t-2,2'

- rw;T« tm0,<               1
=      atT(r)       +  ,,<     '-1,1 + . . . +
                                                o,<
               f,0

so that the first system of auxiliary equations, (206) . . . (209),
which are of the forms

AS = 0,Bg = 0,CW = 0,...TJ3 = 0, . . . (228)

may be replaced by the system

AVS=o'FS=°'cS=0"--TS=0' · · <229->
the change, so far, being only a change of notation ; and, after
satisfying this system by a suitable selection of the ratios of the

...r(aqewnumdahnai(cit2inniht1i3edt)sco,iomnmb(i2senai0syid4stshi)st,ihpnteoihgnnseedtbgsheeeeotcttfoi,nrnn)audgtnmossbfrayoeidnsrrtometomhoefefdr,otthhfsweeyaistutqhaexurmiablainaittrrorieytafiaerleeysqqsuumiawamtthuiipooolntlnsiisfsepi,cliaoer(tarf2iot1tihno0ae,s),

forms,                               ri»<W -l,l _ 0;

   <h 0,3^ = 0,0^=0,

C$ = 0,...T<'>M = 0;                                  (230.)

TV*(T*J) = 0 ;
METHOD OF TRANSFORMING AND RESOLVING EQUATIONS. 333

which are rational and integral and homogeneous with respect
to the m -- 1 quantities (226), and are independent of the mul
tiplier a. Unless, then, the number of the equations of this
transformed system (230)f which is the same as the number of
equations in the second auxiliary problem before proposed, be
less than the number m -- 1 of the new auxiliary quantities
(226), we shall have, in general, null values for all those quanti
ties, that is, we shall have

        A, = 0, bt = 0, ...AM_! = 0;                                                                   (231.)

and therefore we shall be conducted, by (222), to expressions of
the forms (217), which will in general lead, as has been already
shown, to the case of failure (216). We have therefore a new
condition of inequality, which the number m must satisfy, in
order to the general success of the method, namely the follow
-ing,
        m I > h\ + + +
                          A'2                          + h't;                         . . . (232.)
                                                          .
...in which, h\, A'a, h'a,    h't                                .
                                    k'3

                                               .
                                                  .
                                                    .
                             denote respectively the numbers of

the equations of the first, second, third, . . and fth degrees, in
the second auxiliary problem so that, by what has been already
                             ;

shown,

             = ht-
        h't h>t
             _=      _+      --                       --
            i
                   ht */=-+  -+
                     2 i 1,
                                                                                                       (233.)
                                      ht ht

                                  l

                                                    1,
                                                     ht
                                                                               l>

        =hl%         -+ . +
            =
                     + A,... + -- 1.
             htx

                    *! Ag

                              ..
                                         A,
                                              ht
                                                  1,

These last expressions give

                                =+
A',                                                                                +                +
                                     .

                                              .

                                             h't
                                                 A,
                                                                2

                                                                                              /»a

                                                                              3
                                                                                                Ag
        + A'9 + h'3 + . +
               + tht-t;
                                                                                                       '"|(234.)

so that the new condition of inequality, (232), may be written

as follows,                                                                                            . . (235.)

 -»i-l>/ii + 2Aa + 3Aa+ ... + t{ht
             A,
                      2 A9
                         A,
                                        +

                                                              A1

                                       1 1;)J
                                                                                                 .
and therefore also thus,

m>A1 + + A8+... +

  + + + ... (*-!)(*!-!).
334         SIXTH REPORT 1836.

It includes, therefore, m general, the old inequality (215) j and

may be considered as comprising in itself all the conditions re
specting the magnitude of the number m, connected with our
present inquiry : or, at least, as capable of furnishing us with
all such conditions, if only it be sufficiently developed.
   [14.] It must, however,  be remembered, as a part of such de
                            when this condition (232) or (235) or
velopment, that although,
(236) is satisfied, the three auxiliary problems above stated are,
in general, theoretically capable of being resolved, and of con
ducting to a system of ratios of the m original quantities (192),
which shall satisfy the original system of equations, yet each of
the two first auxiliary systems contains, in general, more than
two equations of the second or higher degrees ; and therefore
that, in order to avoid any elevation of degree by elimination
(as required by the original problem), the process must in ge
neral be repeated, and each of the two auxiliary systems them
selves must be decomposed, and treated like the system originally
proposed. These new decompositions introduce, in general,
new conditions of inequality, analogous to the condition lately
determined ; but it is clear that the condition connected with

the decomposition of the first of the auxiliary systems must be
included in the condition connected with the decomposition of
the second of those systems, because the latter system contains,
in general, in each of the degrees 1, 2, S, . . . t -- 1, a greater
number of equations than the former, while both contain, in the
degree t, the same number of equations, namely, ht -- 1. Con

ceiving, then, the second auxiliary system to be decomposed by
a repetition of the process above described into two new auxiliary
systems or groups of equations, and into one separate and re
served equation of the fth degree, we are conducted to this new
condition of inequality, analogous to (232),

     m-2>A", + A"a+ A"3 + ... + A''/; . . . . (237.)

A",, A"a, A"3, . . . h"t denoting, respectively, the numbers of
equations of the first, second, third, . . . and fth degrees, in the
second new group of equations ; in such a manner that, by the
nature of the process,

     h"t =  A' i -- 1,  +   »t           -1,

     *V-1   = "t -l
     h"t -2 = h', -2 + *',--i + AV-1,
                                                            (239.)

     h\ = + *, +                         + A',- 1.
            *'.

                                      ,
METHOD OF TRANSFORMING AND RESOLVING EQUATIONS. 335

- ...Repeating this process, we find, next, the condition,
         m 3 > A'", + h'\ + h'"3 +           + k>\, . . . (239.)

- hfand generally                  + . . . + A« ; . . . (240.)
         m »>A« + A« +

each new condition of this series including all that go before it,
and the symbol Ap^ being such that

                                                               . . (241.)

               /                   '                           . . (242.)

and                  *

               At(--Hn-l>-A(0t -n            =A(t'--+1n)+   .  . . (243.)
                                                           1

Integrating these last equations as equations in finite differences,
we find
_*W -- A
          i.

A^=Vl+t(A,-L+i)5
A«2 = A,_2 + iA,_1 + i.i±i.(A<-L±i)}

     i+ I.« + 1 + 2                                            > (244.)

.^A(^0=_aA, +...-»AA, + * 1+2 A3 H7<i+JL±_?A4 +
                     i + t -- 2/, i+t--l\
+    i.i+li+2
            23

And making, in these expressions,
                                         t=
                     t                                         (245.)
so as to have                ft,                               (246.)

                                0,                             (247.)
                     aw =

and putting, for abridgement,
386 SIXTH REPORT 1836.

we find that at the stage when all the equations of the fth degree
have been removed from the auxiliary groups of equations, we
are led to satisfy, if possible, by the ratios of m -- ht auxiliary

qxiantities,   a system containing Khx   equations of the first degree,
%A4 of the    second, 'A3 of the third,
                                         and so on as far as ,A<_1 of

the degree t -- 1 ; in which

\ - - - -2 = ht

A - - -_ 3 = ht
              2 + ht ht  1 + 1 (*« + 1) */ (*|      1),
              3 + ht ht  2 + Hht + !) ht ht
                                                  1

+ h(ht + 2) (ht + 1) ht (ht ~ 1),                        [ (248.)

VA, = A, + A, A8 + £ (A, + 1) A, A3

+ £(A, + 2)(A,+ 1)A,A4+...

so that, at this stage, we arrive at the following condition of in

equality,
      A-i.m-kt>% + 'ht + VA3 + ·· +
                                                  · · · · (249.)

'*,,' Aa, _. . *ht x having the meanings (248). In exactly the

same way, we find the condition

m-J^-A-l >**!+"* + **»+·· + **»-*· · (250.)

i A -in which,
     "A, _ 2 = % _ 2 +
                              _ i (A _ i 1),

      A"A, _ 3 =    _ 3 + yht _ ! A, _ 2                 (251.)

              + K*»-i + i)'**-iCA»-i-i)i

      &c,

by clearing the auxiliary systems from all equations of the de
      t -- 1 ; and  again by clearing all such     auxiliary groups
gree  equations of  the degree t -- 2, we obtain  a condition of the
from

form

wl_A/_^_1-"A/-27"A + ---+WA-3. · · (252.)

i -in which                                1), &c. . . (253.)
     -A, _ 3 = "A, _ 3 +
                         "A, _ 2 ("A, _ 2
   METHOD OF TRANSFORMING AND RESOLVING EQUATIONS. 337

so that at last we are conducted to a condition which may be
thus denoted, and which contains the ultimate result of all the
restrictions on the number m,

»7i-A<-vA<_1-"A/_2-mA<_3-. . . -('-2>A2 > <*-*>*!, (254.)
that is,

m>ht+*At_l + "ht_2 + whi_3+ ...+('-2>A9 + ('-%,. (255.)

The number m, of quantities originally disposable, must there
fore in general be at least equal to a certain minor limit, which

may be thus denoted,

  ...")m (A,, hv A3, . . . A,) = A, + xA,_j + "A,_2 +

mi order that the method may succeed; and reciprocally, the

method will in general be successful when m equals or surpasses
this limit.
[15.] To illustrate the foregoing general discussion, let us
suppose that ' = 2;
                                                                      (257.)

that is, let us propose to satisfy a system containing A, equa
tions of the first degree,

         A' = 0, . . A<") = 0, . . A<*>> =0,        . . (193.)

and A4 equations of the second degree,

B' = 0, . . B<0 = 0, . . BW = 0, . .                          (194.)

(but not containing any equations of higher degrees than the
second,) by a suitable selection of the m -- 1 ratios of m quan
tities,
                                                          (192.)
          «p...«*,

and without being obliged in any part of the process to intro
duce any elevation of degree by elimination. Assuming, as

before, a, = a\ + a'\, ...am=a!m + a\,                    . (197.)

and employing the corresponding decompositions

A'-A»tf + A'M,...AW«AW + Ag>f . . . (258.)

° - _ - ..-.. "and
B' = B'2>0 + B'M     + B'0>s,                             1

t>(*.  1)  ~  nto    1) +, BR(lA,l,  1) + BD<0*,2»  !>        "   "   (259<)
                                                       *
              B2,0                                         I
                                                          .

we shall be able to resolve the original problem, if we can re
solve the system of the three following.
vol. v.-- 1836.      z
   336 SIXTH REPORT -- 1836.

   First : to satisfy, by ratios of the m auxiliary quantities

   o'i» ···«'»                            (204)

   an auxiliary system, containing the A, equations of the first de

   **,-*gree                   · · · (206)

         ^u.-* --
   and the A8 -- 1 equations of the second degree

   B'2,o = °'---BS'1) = 0                                       (26°)

   Second : to satisfy, by ratios of the m other auxiliary quantities

   a",, ...a"m                            (205)

   another auxiliary system, containing A, + Aa -- 1 equations of
   the first degree,

   A' =0,...A<W = 0,                  1                         (26i.)

                         ,: n          y

   and Ag -- 1 equations of the second degree,

   B'0,2 = 0>-"BS"1) = 0                                        <262-}

   Third : to satisfy, by the ratio of any one of the m quantities
   (205) to any one of the m quantities (204), this one remaining
   equation of the second degree

   B^) = 0                                                      (263.)

   The enunciation of the original problem supposes that

   m 7 h\ + K j                                                 (264.)

   since otherwise the original equations (193) and (194) would in
   general conduct to the excluded case, or case of failure,

   a, = 0, . . . am = 0                            (216.)

   In virtue of this condition (264), the first auxiliary problem  is

   indeterminate, because

   m -- 17A, +.Aa-- 1                                           (265.)

   But, by whatever system of ratios

   TT'--^                                          <219->

   we may succeed in satisfying the first auxiliary system of equa
   tions, (206) and (260), we may in general transform the second

x
    METHOD OF TRANSFORMING AND RESOLVING EQUATIONS. 339

auxiliary system of equations,              (261) and (262), into a system
which may be thus denoted,

        " -A01-O, ...A01 -0,
        °Bv                          ~  l)
              1,1
           -- Ou>    *' '  B^**             --                                    0u'                       (266.)

                                1,1

        u02-u, ...u02 -u,

and which  contains          + -- equations of the first degree,
and --     equations       of the second degree, between the m --
A,                                                                                                          ·
       ht
                                                                                                                         a1
                       1
                                             /*,
                                                         h2
                                                                               1
^.-ic-^-inew combinations, or new auxiliary quantities following,
                         = <.-, -%^«",,; (2670

so that the solution of the second auxiliary problem will give,
in general,

        b1=0,...bm_l=0,                                                                             (231.)

and therefore will give, for the m auxiliary quantities (205),
system of ratios coincident with the ratios (219),

        ^-dl'a", u\        a''                                                    «'. -,--

                             air
                   1                                                                         · ·            (268.)

                          A,
                                    2

                                            ,
                                                    1)
                                                       is

                                                                                  >
unless  - -m 7 + (As

                                                                                                            (269.)

When, therefore, this last condition not satisfied, the two first
auxiliary problems will conduct, in general, to a system of de
termined ratios for the m original quantities (192), namely
                      -am _ a « - .
        ai_a'i             l                                                                        ,,,ljn
                                         l

        am a'm am a'm

and unless these happen to satisfy the equation of the third

auxiliary problem, namely
                      B(*j) =
                           0,                                                               (263.)
                                         is
which had not been employed in determining them, we shall
itfall back on the excluded case, or case of failure, (216). But,
even when the condition (269) satisfied, and when, therefore,
the auxiliary equations are theoretically capable of conducting
to ratios which shall satisfy the equations originally proposed,

   will still be necessary, in general, to decompose each of the
two first auxiliary systems of equations into others, in order to
comply with the enunciation of the original problem, which re
quires that we should avoid all raising of degiee by elimination,

                                        z

                                            2
340                     1IXTH REPORT 163G.

in every  part of  the process. Confining ourselves                                                to the consi
deration  of the   second auxiliary problem, (which
                                                                                                   includes the
difficulties of the first,) we see that the transformed auxiliary
                                     equations of the  first
system    (266)  coifntwaeinspuht,\  for abridgement,                                              degree,  and  Iv9
of the  second,

                   *·*"*»-           lA* .-l,  JI                                                           (270.)
                   A'.-A. +
which new auxiliary equations are to be satisfied, if possible, by

the ratios of to -- 1 new auxiliary quantities ; so that a repeti
tion of the former process of decomposition and transformation
would conduct to a new auxiliary system, containing A", equa
tions of the first degree, and A"9 of the second, in which

                   A", =             -+ A'9                                                        :
                          ; A',
                                                                                                             2'
                                if

                                             1,

                                         J
and which must be satisfied, possible, by the ratios of to --
new auxiliary quantities and thus we should arrive at this new
condition, as necessary to the success of the method

           to-2>A', + 2(A'9-1);                                                                             (272.)

-or, more concisely,2     A", + h\                                                                          (273.)
                    to
                      >

And so proceeding, we should find generally,

           m-i>A,(0 + A,(0,                                                                                 (274.)

the functions A/'\ A9^ being determined            by the equations
                                                                               (275.)
           K*,w = ** Vo) =                                                     (276.)

              A9(i+1)-A,« = -1,

                 A1('+1)-A1(') = As0+1);                                                                    (277.)

which give, by integrations of finite differences,
                 A9(') = hq-i;

                 A« = + ;(a4-L±J).                                                                 ' ' ' <w
         a
Thus, making                         =K
           hi
                               ja                                                                .... (279.)
                                                                                                                      (280.)
                                      A,

                                                   ·

                                       AI
                                            +

                                                                                                >
and putting, for abridgement,

           'A1 = A,W =               iAa(^-l),

we arrive    at last at   stage of the process                                                   at which we have to
satisfy    system of 'A,  equations of the first
of m --                                                                                           degree by the ratios
              quantities   and now, at length,                                                   we deduce this final
METHOD OF TRANSFORMING AND RESOLVING EQUATIONS. 341

condition of inequality, to be satisfied by the number m, in order
to the general success of the method (in the case t = 2),
                        m-A2>'A,;
                                                               (281.)
that is,
              m>A, + i(Ag + l)Aa;
                                                               (282.)

or, in other words, m must at least be equal     to the following
minor limit,                                       . . . (283.)
          V im (A,,
                 = A, + 1 + (Ag + 1) A2.

For example, making A, = 1, and hi = 2, we find that a system
containing one homogeneous equation of the first degree, and
two of the second, can be satisfied, in general, without any ele
vation of degree by elimination, and therefore without its being
necessary to resolve any equation higher than the second de
gree, by the ratios of m quantities, provided that this number
m is not less than the minor limit Jive : a result which may be
briefly thus expressed,

          m (1, 2) = 5                                         (284.)

   [16.] Indeed, it might seem, that in the process last described,
an advantage would be gained by stopping at that stage, at
which, by making i = A9 -- 1 in the formulae (278), we should
V-» -i),/have
                    = ..                      1                (l 285.,'
         4l<*.-i) = j, + {/,,(*,
and
                                                               (286.)
          m~i = m -- Ag+lj

that is, when we should have to satisfy, by the ratios of m -- Ag
+ 1 quantities, a system containing only one equation of the
second degree,   in combination with At + £ A2 (A9 -- 1) of    the
                 ordinary process of elimination, performed    be
first. For, the

tween the equations of this last system, would not conduct to
any equation higher than the second degree ; and hence, without
going any further, we might perceive it to be sufficient that the
- -number m should satisfy this condition of inequality,
            m A, + 1 7 A, + · Aa(A, 1) + 1. . . .              (287-)

But it is easy to see that this alteration of method introduces no
real simplification ; the condition                            coincident
with the condition (282) or (283).   (2T8o7)   being really     result, it
                                              illustrate this
may be worth observing, that, in general, instead of the ordi
nary mode of satisfying, by ordinary elimination, any system of
rational and integral and homogeneous equations, containing n
such equations of the first degree,
342 SIXTH REPORT -- 1836.

          ,A' = 0,lA" = 0,...'AW = 0)                                             (288.)

and one of the second degree,

    *B' = 0,                                                                      (289.)

by the n + 1 ratios of n + 2 disposable quantities,

    alt av ... an + 2>                                                            (290.)

it is permitted to proceed as follows. Decomposing each of
the first » + 1 quantities into two parts, so as to put

a, = a\ + a"1,a2 = + a"8, ... an          = a?n  + a!'n + l, (291.)
                 o',                + l+       0,
                            is
                                 a                l+
we may decompose each of the given functions of the first de
                                                               2
gree, such as 'A^, into two corresponding parts, \A.(") and\A.("j,

of which the former, 'A^,           function of the first degree of the

n + quantities,
12
        o'l.o'a. ··«'«+i»«'» 2»                                                   (292-)

while the latter, 'A^,     function of the first degree of the
                        is
                            a
                                +
n + other quantities                                                              (293.)

              a",, a",, ..a"n l;

....and then, after resolving in any manner the indeterminate pro

blem, to satisfy the n equations of the first degree,
    \VI|0=(VA»,(0 = ...4A« =0,                                                    (294.)

by suitable selection of the n + ratios of the n + quan
a                                   11                                         2

tities (292), (excluding only the assumption an                   = 0,) we may

....determine the n ratios of the n + quantities (293), so as to

satisfy these n other equations of the first degree,
    JA'0il = Q/A"0(1=0,../Aj>s=0j                                                 (295.)

after which will only remain to determine the ratio of any oneit
of these latter quantities (293) to any one of the former quan
tities (292), so as to satisfy the equation of the second degree (289),
and the original problem will be resolved.

    [17-] Again, let
                                       = (296.)

that is, let us consider system containing equations of the
first degree, such as those marked (193), along with equations
                        at

                                 ;3
                                                                  A,
                                                                          fi:
METHOD OF TRANSFORMING AND RESOLVING EQUATIONS. 343

of the second degree (194), and A3 equations of the third de
gree (195), to be satisfied by the ratios of m disposable quanti
ties (192). After exhausting, by the general process already
sufficiently explained, all the equations of the third degree in all
the auxiliary systems, we are conducted to satisfy, if possible,
by the ratios of m -- A3 quantities, a system containing equa
tions of the first, and of the second degree, in which,
'Al                                   a

      A1 *,                                       J1

                "\                                                    'A,
,A. = + iA,(A8-l),                                "'
   = + AA+i(A,+ l)A8(A8-l)j                                                                K

                                                                        '
and after exhausting, next, all the equations of the second degree
in all the new auxiliary systems, we are conducted to satisfy, by
the ratios of m -- -- «8 quantities,  system of "A, equations
of the first degree, in which,+

              Aa
        K*1 = ,A1 i,A,C*«-l)                                       (298.)
                                      m must  satisfy the follow
We find, therefore, that the number
ing condition of inequality,

          m-A8-,A,7wAl»                                                                           (299-)

that is,

          m + %A8 + *A,                                                                           (300.)
          +: 7
On substituting for "A, its value (298), this last condition be
                  1)
comes,                A3

          Wl7A3+^A2CA9+ + 'A,;*                                                                   (301.)
                          lJ
                      J
                                                                  a

                                                                                               1
that is, in virtue of the expressions (297),

HJ7A1 + i(Aa+l)Ag + ^(Ag+l)(A8+l)A3

+ i(h3+l)h{ha-l)+15{h3+l)h3(ha-l)(ha-2.)!

The number m must therefore equal or surpass certain minor
limit, which, in the notation of factorials, may be expressed as
follows

m<(A,     + [A, + l]9 + *(*«  +

                                l)

                                           +

                                           I
                                      [A3 1]81                                                    (303

+ HA8+1]3 + UA3+1J4;                                                                                    )

the symbol [>;]" denoting the continued product,            · (304.)
                                                         ·
      M" = *(l -l)(i»-2)...(l -»+ 1).
So that when we denote this minor limit of m by the symbol
m (Aj, A8, Aa), we obtain, in general, the formula

m (A,, A8, A3) = », + W«                      M3            W4» (3o5-)
                          +

                               h
                                                +

                                              *

                                           i+
                          1* [is]2
344 SIXTH RKI'ORT -- 1836.

in which,
    l,,, = A, +
                 i|4 = kt + 1, >j3 = A8 + 1.       . . . (306.)
                                                   . . . (307.)
For example,

    m (1, 1, 1) = 5

    [18.] When

    < = 4,                                         . . . (308.)

that is, when some of the original equations are as high as the
fourth degree, (but none more elevated,) then
    4A3 = A3 + JA4(A4-l),
                                     1),                                                     (309.)
    \ -= A8 + h4ha + i(h4 + 1)A4(A4

    \ i iKh= A, + A4A8 + (K + 1)
       Wa-1), -+ i(*4+2)(*4+ 1)4404-1);
                                                                                             (310.)
    ·*.«*, +                                                                                 (311.)
    "A, =  'A,
               +

                    J

                                                           1)
                                                               .

                                                                                     1)

                                                       i..}
                V*« + C*a + '*« C*3
    "\*. = ^. + rA*CA8-i); . .
and the minor limit of m, denoted by the symbol m (Au Ag, AAgg, jAAJJ,,
    given by the equation
is

    m (A,, A9, A3, A4) = +' + "Aa + "XA, +
                           A4                                                                (312.)
                                       A3
                                                                                      1
                                                                                          5

which may be thus developed,

m (A,, A4, A3, AJ = )), + -- [jjJ* + -- n9 [ijg]4

    + 4-W+4-W4

    w+ Is {{*w +              + w4}
if

     4
                       +

             41
                                 4-

                  II 4

                                  11
    w w ww{4+-J-M" +
                                                                           >(313.)

                              +4 +^ M4}

    W+ 1s{W8 + W4 +                 + WaJ

    + W W + M6 + |W'+|8 W,

    we employ the notation of factorials, and put for abridgement,

           1,*bA, + 1,... 14=*4 +                                                            (314-)

In the notation of powers, we have
METHOD OF TRANSFORMING AND RESOLVING EQUATIONS. 345

tn (A,, A8, Ajj, hj = 1 + A,

V+-1
                    A4  (12  +   10 A4 + 9   + 2 A4S + 3 A44)
a-4

+ -IasA8(1 +A< + A4«) + i.AaA8«+i-A8«

±+ A3(20 + 22 A4 + 25 A49 4- 9 A43

    + 8A4« + 5A4S + SA46)                                            S . (315.)

+ ^V(18+ 10*4+ 15A48+ I4A/+ 9A44)

|SV(I+ + SA4 + SA4*) + i-A8«

    1               (4S2  A4  +  364 A49  +  108 A43  +  169 A44

1152

+ 24 A4S + 34 A48 + 12 A4' + 9 A4»).

As examples, whichever formula we employ, we find
                                m(l,0, 1, 1) = 7;
                                                                             (316.)
                                m(l, I, 1, 1)= 11;
                                m(l, I, 1, 2) = 47;                          (317.)
                                                                             (318.)
                                m (5, 4, 3, 3) = 922
                                                                             (319.)
   [19.] In general (by the nature of the process explained in
the foregoing articles) the minor limit (256) of the number m,
which we have denoted by the symbol

                                m{hx, Aj, . . . A,),

is a function such that

m (A,, A,, . . . A,) = 1 + m (A',, A's, . . . A',), . . . (320.)

A',, . . being determined by the formulae (233). This equa
t

      i, it

               h't
tion in finite differences (320) maybe regarded as containing the
most essential element of the whole foregoing discussion and
from the formulae already found for the cases =                           2, =
                                                                  t
                                                                            it t ;

                                                                                      3,
  -- might have been deduced in other ways. From also
we may perceive, that whenever the original system contains
only one equation of the highest or fth degree, in such man
                                                                          a

ner that

= · (321-)
*t                                                             ·
                                                                       ·
     h

               t
then, whatever may be, we have the formula
346 SIXTH REPORT                                                              1836.

Kw(*i>   ··*/_ 1,1)                                                                                          -J<

so that, for example,                                                                                           (323.)
                                                                                                                (324.)
    m(l,l,l,l,l) = +m(4,3,2,l);                                                                                 (325.)
                              1l                                                                       . . (326.)
m (4,          3,             = + m (9,                                       = 46
                   2,                                                  5,
                                                                           9, 2)
                          1)                                                     5,
                                                                                       2) ;
m(l, 1,1, 1,1,1) = + »z(5,4,3,2,l);1                                                               .
                                                                                                          .
                                                                                                                   .

7»(5,4,3,2,1) = + m (14,      1                                                            = 922;

and therefore

       m (1, 1,1, 1,1) = 47,                                                                                          (327.)
and
   m (1,1, 1,1, 1,1) = 923
                                                                                                                  (328.)
[20m.] (Tl,hle,l)for=mula                                                                          (307.)
         a

              0,
                            0, 5,
                                           0,
may be considered as expressing, generally, that in order to
satisfy system of three homogeneous equations, rational and
integral, and of the forms

      A' = B' = C' =                                                                               by  is a        (329.)
that is, of the first, second, and third degrees,
ratios of m disposable quantities                                                                            system of

alf 'am>                                                                                           (192.)
         ·
            ·

which ratios are to be discovered by Mr. Jerrard's method of
decomposition, without any elevation of degree by elimination,
the number m ought to be at least equal to the minor limit Jive;
result which includes and illustrates that obtained in the 4th
a
                                          is

                                                                    :
article of the present communication, respecting Mr. Jerrard's
process for taking away three terms at once from the general
equation of the mth degree namely that this process not gene
rally applicable when m less thaafive. Again, the process de

scribed in the eleventh article, for taking away, on Mr. Jerrard's
principles, four terms at once from the general equation of the
with degree, without being obliged                                     to eliminate between any                       two
equations of condition of higher                                        degrees than the first,                       was
shown to require, for its success, in general, that m should be
....at least equal to the minor limit eleven and this limitation

included in, and illustrated by, the result
                              1,
                                  a 1,

                                         1)
                                                                    ;

                                                                                           is
               m (1,                                                   = 11,                       (317.)

which expresses generally similar limitation to the analogous
process for satisfying any four homogeneous equations of con
dition,
'method of transforming and resolving equations. 347

A' = 0, B' = 0, C = 0, D* = 0,                                (330.)

of the first, second, third, and fourth degrees, by the ratios of
....m disposable quantities, alt as, . . am.In like manner    it is

shown by the result                                   (327.)

               m(l, 1, 1, 1, 1) = 47,
that Mr. Jerrard's general method would not avail to satisfy
the five conditions

       A' = 0, B' = 0, C = 0, D* = 0, E' = 0, . . (331.)

and so to take away five terms at once from the equation of the
wth degree, without any elevation of degree being introduced in
the eliminations, unless m be at least = 47, that is, unless the

....equation to be transformed be at least of the 47th degree ; and

the result
m(l, 1,1,1, 1,1) = 923,                            (328.)

shows that the analogous process for taking away six terms at
once, or for satisfying the six conditions
                                                           . (332.)
  FA' = 0, B' = 0, C = 0, D* = 0, E' = 0, = 0,

is limited to equations of the 923rd and higher degrees.
Finally, the result

m (1,0, 1,1) = 7,                                  (316.)

and the connected result

m(l,0, 1,0, 1) = 7,                                           (333.)

show that it is not in general possible to satisfy, by the same
method, a system of three conditions of the first, third, and
-fourth degrees, respectively, such as the system
         A' = 0, O = 0, D' a B'2 = 0,                         (334.)

nor a system of 3 conditions of the first, third, and fifth degrees,
A' = 0, C = 0, E' = 0,
                                                              (335.)

unless m be at least = 7 ; which illustrates and confirms the
conclusions before obtained respecting the inadequacy of the
method to reduce the general equation of the fifth degree to
De Moivre's solvible form, or to reduce the general equation of
the sixth to that of the fifth degree.
   [21.] Indeed, if some elevation of degree be     admitted in the
                                                   the minor limit
eliminations between the auxiliary equations,

of the number m may sometimes be advantageously depressed.
Thus, in the process for satisfying the system of equations (330),
we first reduce the original difficulty to that of satisfying, by the
ratios of m -- 1 quantities, a system containing three equations

                                                                       X
JJ48   SIXTH REPORT -- 1836.

of the first degree, two of the second, and one of the third ; and

fwoirfestmn, e--xant d2redqtwuucoaenottfithitieshse,disafefisccyousnltdteymdteocgortehneat.tainoifNnsogawtf,iisvfeyaitneqtghu,iasbtiyosnttahsgeeo,rfaitttihoises

advantageous to depart from the general method, and to have
recourse to ordinary elimination ; because we can thus resolve
the last-mentioned auxiliary system, not indeed without some
elevation of degree, but with an elevation which conducts no
higher than a biquadratic equation ; and by avoiding the addi
tional decomposition which the unmodified method requires, we
are able to employ a lower limit for m. In fact, the general
method would have led us to a new transformation of the ques
tion, by which it would have been required to satisfy, by the
ratios of m -- 3 new quantities, a system containing six new-
equations of the first, and one of the second degree ; it would
therefore have been necessary, in general, in employing that
method, that m -- 3 should be greater than 6 + 1, or in other
words that rn should be at least equal to the minor limit eleven ;

and accordingly we found

       m (1,1, 1,1) = 11. . . . (317.)

But when we dispense with this last decomposition, we need
       have m -- 2 > 5 + 2,                       by this  modifica
only   succeeds even for m =  and the  process,  that Mr.  Jerrard's
tion,                                  was thus
                              ten. It
principles were shown, in the tenth article of this paper, to
furnish a process for taking away four terms at once from equa
tions as low as the tenth degree, provided that we employ (as
we may) certain auxiliary systems of conditions, (160) and (161),
of which each contains two equations of the second degree, but
none of a degree more elevated. But it appears to be impos
sible, by any such mixture of ordinary elimination with the ge
neral method explained above, to depress so far that lower limit
of m which has been assigned by the foregoing discussion, as to
render the method available for resolving any general equation,
by reducing it to any known solvible form. This Method of
Decomposition has, however, conducted, in the hands of its in
ventor Mr. Jerrard, to several general transformations of equa
tions, which must be considered as discoveries in algebra ; and
to the solution of an extensive class of problems in the analysis
of indeterminates, which had not before been resolved : the
notation, also, of symmetric functions, which has been employed
by that mathematician, in his published researches* on these
subjects, is one of great beauty and power.

   · Mathematical Researches, by George B. Jerrard, A.B., Bristol; printed
by William Strong, Clare Street ; to be had of Longman and Co., London.
             NOTICES

                                                          AND

       ABSTRACTS OF COMMUNICATIONS

                                                TO THE

BRITISH ASSOCIATION

                                                FOB THE

        ADVANCEMENT OF SCIENCE,

                                                 AT THE

             BRISTOL MEETING, AUGUST 1836.
                        ADVERTISEMENT.

The Editors of the following Notices consider themselves respon
sible only for the fidelity with which the views of the Authors are

abstracted.
                 CONTENTS.

NOTICES AND ABSTRACTS OF MISCELLANEOUS
       COMMUNICATIONS TO THE SECTIONS.

                 MATHEMATICS AND PHYSICS.

Mr. Talbot's brief Account of some Researches in the Integral Calculus        Page.
                                                                                      1

Professor Sir W. R. Hamilton on the Calculus of Principal Relations              4
Professor Stevelly's Illustration of the Meaning of the doubtful Algebraic Sign

in certain Formulae of Algebraic Geometry                                        5

Professor Stevelly on " The Mathematical Rules for constructing Compensating

Pendulums."                                                                      7

Mr. J. W. Lubbock on the Importance of forming new Empirical Tables for find

    ing the Moon's Place          of Crystallized  Surfaces upon Common and      12
                                                                                 13
Sir David Brewster on the Action
   Polarized Light

Sir David Brewster on a singular Development of Polarizing Structure in the      16
                                                                                 18
    Crystalline Lens after Death                                                 19
                                                                                 19
Mr. J. M'Cullagh on the Laws of Double Refraction in Quartz.

The Rev. Edward Craig on Polarization...
Mr. Wm. Snow Harris on some Phenomena of Electrical Repulsion

The Rev. J. W. M'Gauley's Series of Experiments in Electro-magnetism, with

Reference to its Application as a Moving Power                                   24

The Rev. W. Scoresby on a New Compass Bar, with Illustrations, by means of

a recent Instrument, of the Susceptibility of Iron for the Magnetic Condition 28

Professor Forres's Experiments on Terrestrial Magnetic Intensity, especially in

   relation to the Influence of Height                                           30
                                                                                 31
Professor Phillips on the Direction of Isoclinal Magnetic Lines in Yorkshire...  81
Professor Lloyd on the Direction of the Isoclinal Lines in England.

Mr. Wm. Hekapath on the Aurora Borealis                                          32
                                                                                 32
Dr. Traill on the Aurora Borealis of 11th August, 1836

Mr. W. Ettbick's Notice of an Instrument to observe minute Changes of Terres

trial Magnetism                                                                  33

Mr. W. Ettbick's Notice of a new Rubber for an Electrical Machine                33
Dr. James Apjohn onanew Method of Investigating the Specific Heats of Gases      33

The Rev. B. Powell on the Impermeability of Water to Radiant Heat                36

Mr. R. Addams on the Vibration of Bells                                          36
                                                                                 36
Dr. Charles J. B. Williams on an Improved Ear-Trumpet                            37

Dr. Samuel Rootsey on the higher Orders of Grecian Music
iy CONTEXTS.

                                                                                Page.

Dr. Samuel Rootsey on Mnemonical Logarithms                                     38

Professor Forbes's Experiments on the Weight, Height, and Strength of Men at    TM

different Ages                                                     -- ··

The Rev. W. Whewell's further Account of his Anemometer                         39

Mr. G. Webb Hall on the Connection of the Weather with the Tide.                41

The Hev. L. Carpenter on Lucas's Method of Printing for the Blind               41

Mr. J. S. Russell on the Ratio of the Resistance of Fluids to the Velocity of   41

Waves

Professor Sir W. R. Hamilton's Calculus of Principal Relations                  41

                              CHEMISTRY.

Dr. R. Harb on the Chemical Nomenclature of Berzelius.                          44
Dr. R. Hare on a Calorimotor for Igniting Gases in Eudioraetrical Experiments,
                                                                                45
    and Gunpowder in Rock-blasting                                              46

Dr. R. Hare on the Aqueous Sliding-rod Hydrogen Eudiometer.                     *'

Mr. Andrew Crosse's Electrical Experiments                                      48
Mr. Henry Hough Watson's Remarks on the Results of some Experiments on
                                                                                ·>"
   the Phosphate and Pyro-Phosphate of Soda.
Mr. Thomas Exley's Extracts from a Paper " on Important Facts obtained Ma       **

   thematically ^from.Theory, embracing most of those Experimental results in   56
                                                                                61
    Chemistry, which are considered as ultimate facts."                         62

Dr. Charles Henry on Gaseous Interference                                       <">
Dr. THOMAsiTHOMSON's Experiments, on the Combinations of Sulphuric Acid         67

    and Water                                                                   *'

Mr. Wm. Black on a Method of ascertaining the Strength of Spirits               70
                                                                                 70
Mr. Edmund Davy's Notice of a new Gaseous [Bicarburet of Hydrogen.
Mr. Edmund Davy's Notice of a peculiar Compound of Carbon and Potassium,        7*

or Carburet of Potassium, &c                                                     "6

Mr. Mushet on Iron-ore.                                                          76

Dr. James Inolis on the Conducting Powers of Iodine.                            '"

Mr. J. F. W. Johnston on Paracyanogen, a new Isomeric Compound.                  77
Mr. W. Herapath on Arsenical Poisons
                                                                                 77
Mr. W. Herapath on Lithiate of Ammonia as a Secretion of Insects.
Mr. W. Herapath's Analysis of the Water of the King's Bath, Bath

Mr. W. C. Jones on the Analysis of Wheat, a peculiar Volatile Fluid, and a So

luble Modification of Gluten, Nitrogen in Lignin, &c

Dr. Daubeny's Notice of Experiments respecting the effects which Arsenic pro

   duces on Vegetation                       obtained from the Distillation

Mr. R Scanlan on a new substance (Eblanine)

   of Wood.

Mr. Knox on the Insulation of Fluorine                                     in

Mr. Wm. Ettriok on a modification of the common Bellows Blowpipe

Mr. Wm. West on a means of detecting Gases present, in small proportions,
   Atmospheric Air
                           CONTENTS.                                             V

                           GEOLOGY.

Mr. Wm. Hopkins on certain points in Physical Geology                           Page.
                                                                                      78

Lord Nuoent's Notes on the Sea Rivulets in Ccphalonia                            81
Dr. C. Daubeny on the State of the Chemical Theory of Volcanic Phenomena.        81

Mr. R. W. Fox on Voltaic Agencies in Metalliferous Veins                         81

Professor Furbks's Remarks illustrative of the Physical Geography of the Pyre    83
   nees, particularly in relation to Hot Springs                                 83

Mr. H. T. De la Beche on certain Phenomena connected with the Metalliferous

   Veins of Cornwall

Mr. Edward Charlesworth's Notice of the Remains of Vertebrated Animals

    found in the Tertiary Beds of Norfolk and Suffolk                            84

Mr. E. Charleswortr on the Fallacies involved in Mr. Lyell's Classification of
   Tertiary Deposits according to the proportionate number of recent Species of

    Molluscs which they contain                                                  86
                                                                                 86
Professor Phillips on certain Limestones and associated Strata in the Vicinity

   of Manchester

Professor Phillips on the Removal of large Blocks or Boulders from the Cum

brian Mountains in various directions                                            87

Mr. R. I. Murchison on the Ancient and Modern Hydrography of the River Severn 88
Mr. J. E. Bowman on the Bone Cave in Carboniferous Limestone at Cefn, in

    Denbighshire                                                                 88

Dr. Henry Riley and Samuel Stutchbury on an additional Species of the            90
   newly-discovered Saurian Animals in the Magnesian Conglomerate of Durd-
                                                                                 95
    hara Down, near Bristol                                                      96
Professor Sedgwick and Mr. Murchison's Classification of the old Slate Rocks

   of the North of Devonshire, and on the true position of the Culm Deposits in
   the central portion of that County
Marquess Sfineto on the Site of the Ancient City of Memphis

                 ZOOLOGY AND BOTANY.

Dr. James Macartney's Account of the Organ of Voice in the New Holland

   Ostrich                                                                       97
                                                                                 97
Dr. Henry Riley on the Foot of the " Two-toed" Ostrich (Struthio Camelta) .      98
                                                                                 98
Dr. John Hancock on the Manati or Cowfish of the Inland Waters of Guiana. .
                                                                                 98
Dr. Rootsey on Aranea Avicularia                                                 99

Rev. F. W. Hope on the Probability that some of the early Notions of Antiquity   99

were derived from Insects                                 ·                      99

Mr. Forbes's Notice of Sixteen Species of Testacea new to Scotland
Mr. W*. Carpenter's Abstract of Dr. Pritchard's Views of the Criteria by which

   Species arc to be distinguished in Zoology and Botany

Dr. James Macartney on the Means of Preserving Animal and Vegetable Sub

stances

vol. v.-- 1836.                        2a
VI CONTENTS.

                                                                                                                                     Page.

Mr. J. E. Bowman on the Longevity of tVic Yew, and on the Antiquity of Plant

    ing it in Churchyards                                                        101
                                                                                 102
Dr. G. Lloyd's Abstract of Observations on the ifarsiliaeea                      104

Mr. Thomas Bridgin Teale's Abstract of a Paper on Alcyonella Stagnorvm....

Dr. John Hancock on a new and scandent Species of the Norantia, or Ascium

of Guiana.                                                                       104

Dr. C. Dadbenv's Notice of Experiments, now in progress at Oxford, on the Ef

   fects produced by Arsenic on Vegetation                                       104
                                                                                 105
Professor Royle on Caoutchouc                                                    106

Mr. G. Webb Hall on the Acceleration of the Growth of Wheat

Professor Henslow's Notice of Crystals of Sugar found in Rhododendron pon-

ticum                                                                            106

Licut.-Col. Sykes on the Fruits cultivated and Wild, of the Dcccan, in the East

Indies                                                                           106

Dr. S. Rootsey, on Sugar, Malt, and an Ardent Spirit extracted from Mangel

   Wurzel                                                                        107
Mr. Phelps on the Formation of Peat (illustrated by specimens)                   107

Dr. Corbet on Imbibition of Prussiate of Potash by Plants                        107

                          MEDICAL SCIENCE.

Dr. J. C. Prichard on the Treatment of some Diseases of the Brain                107

Dr. James O'Beirne's Abstract of an unpublished Work on Tetanus                  I1l0l9
Sir D. Brewster on the Cause, the Prevention, and the Cure of Cataract.
Mr. R. Carmichael on the Nature and Origin of Cancerous and Tuberculous

Diseases                                                                         112

Dr. James Macartney on the Structure of the Teeth, with an Account of the

    process of their Decay                                                       115
Dr. Robert D. Thomson on the Chemistry of the Digestive Organs                   117

Dr. Robert Reid's Exposition of the Functions of the Nervous Structure in the

Human Frame                                                                      119

Dr. Carson on Absorption                                                         119

Mr. Augustus F. A. Greeves on the Gyration of the Heart                          120

Mr. John Walker on the Functions of the Muscles and Nerves of the Eyeball.. 121

Dr. W. F. Montgomery's Notice of a newly-discovered Peculiarity in the Struc

ture of the Uterine Decidua, or Decidua Vera                                     121

Dr. John Houston's Account of Human Twin Foetuses, one of which was de

void of Brain, Heart, Lungs, and Liver ; with Observations on the Nature and

Cause of the Circulation in such Monsters                                        122

Mr. R. Adams on the Pathological Condition of the Bones in Chronic Rheuma

tism                                                                             123

Mr. R. Adams on the state of the new Circulating Channels in the case of double

   Popliteal Aneurism                                                            123
                                                                                 124
Sir David J. H. Dickson's Case of extensive Aneurism of the Arteria Innomi-

   nata and Thoracic Aorta
                                  CONTENTS.                                       vil

                                                                                                                                     Page.
Mr. A i.cock on the Question whether the Sense of Taste is dependent on Nerves

from the Sphenopalatine Ganglion                                                  124

Mr. Alcock on some particulars in the Anatomy of the Fifth Pair of Nerves         124
Mr. William Hetling on a new Instrument for the removing of Ligatures at

pleasure                                                                          124

Dr. Marshall Hall and Mr. S. D. Brooghton on the Sensibility of the Glosso

pharyngeal Nerve                                                                  125

                  MECHANICAL SCIENCE.

Mr. Henry Chatfield on the Theory of British Naval Architecture                   129

Mr. Henwood on certain points in the Theory of Naval Architecture                 130

Rev. W. Whewell on the Tides                                                      130

Mr. J. S. Russell on the Application of our Knowledge of the Phenomena of

Waves to the Improvement of the Navigation of Shallow Rivers                      130

Professor Moseley on certain points connected with the Theory of Locomotion. 130

Mr. John S. Enys on the Performance of Steam-Engines in Cornwall                  130

                                STATISTICS.

Baron DuriN's Researches relative to the Price of Grain, and its Influence on

    the French Population                                                         132
                                                                                  133
Report on the State of Education in the Borough of Liverpool in 1835 -- 1836....  136

Mr. C. B. Fripp on the Statistics of Popular Education in Bristol

Dr. Cleland's Extracts from Statistical Documents relating to Glasgow             140

Mr. John Taylor on the Comparative Value of the Mineral Productions of Great

Britain and the rest of Europe                                                    144

Dr. Robert Collins's Observations on the Periodicity of Births, showing the
   total number born in each Month ; the Number of Premature Children j the

   Sex, &c. &c. ; the Number of Stillborn Children, and Children Dying j also

with regard to the Death of the Mothers, and the most important Complications

met with in Delivery, deduced from the Experience of 16,654 Cases                 146

Mr. W. Felkin's Facts and Calculations on the present State of the Bobbin Net

    Trade, and the past and present State of the Hosiery Trade                    148
Colonel Sykes on the Utility of Co-operating Committees of Trade and Agricul

ture in the Commercial and Manufacturing Towns of Great Britain, &c. as pro

jected by Mr. Holt Mackenzie and Mr. Forbes Royle, and advocated by Sir
Alexander Johnston and Sir C. Forbes, for investigating more exclusively the

    Natural and Artificial Products of India                                      149
                                                                                  150
Dr. Yelloly on Spade Husbandry in Norfolk

Dr. Lardner on the Effect of Railroads on Intercommunication                      150
Mr. W. R Greg's Outlines of a Memoir on Statistical Desiderata                    151
Mr. Jeffries Kingsley's Formula of Returns of the gross Receipts of the Re
                                                                                  151
   venues of Great Britain, and of Savings Banks Returns
         NOTICES AND ABSTRACTS

                                                                 OF

MISCELLANEOUS COMMUNICATIONS

                   TO THE SECTIONS.

                 MATHEMATICS AND PHYSICS.

A brief Account  of  some Researches in the  Integral  Calculus.  By

                         H. F. Talbot, Esq.

Having been asked to lay before the British Association a notice of
my researches in the Integral Calculus, so far as they have been
published in the Philosophical Transactions for the present year, I
have drawn up a short account of this subject.

Upwards of one hundred years ago, an Italian geometer, Fagnani,
discovered that the difference of two elliptic arcs is in some cases
accurately equal to a straight line, whose length is known; although
neither of the arcs, taken separately, can be so expressed. Thus he
found, for example, that the quadrant of every ellipse is capable of
being so bisected that the difference of the parts is equal to the
difference of the major and minor axis of the curve. He also found
that the hyperbola possesses similar properties, and also the lemni-
scate, and several other curves. He thus with great ingenuity and
sagacity opened a new track in the regions of analysis, the existence
of which had until his time remained unknown.
The next considerable step was made by Euler, who showed
/generally that the sum of the two integrals
                                                       + /-r=?

may be always rendered equal to a constant, by assuming a proper

equation between the variables x and y, provided that X was a poly
nomial in x not exceeding the fourth degree. But if X contained
the fifth or higher powers of x, he was unable (except in very special
cases) to find any solution of the problem.
   Lagrange, who also endeavoured to remove this difficulty, met
with no better success.

   The reason of the failure appears now to be manifest, that the

solution of the problem was sought for in the wrong direction. It
was attempted always to combine two integrals into an algebraic
Vol. V.-- 1836.
                         a
2 SIXTH REPORT. -- 1836.

sum, which can only be done successfully in certain cases. In all

other cases it is requisite to combine three or more integrals, and
the idea of doing this seems not to have occurred to these illustrious

analysts.
J/ J -- fThus, for instance, they tried in vain to find the algebraic integral
of the equation  ----      _u       /-- ?^_  __ n

                 v 1 + xb              V1 +
But if they had sought for the algebraic integral of

                        P dy

                         Vi + «*
/' vr+J +Jdx                           /»    dz       =  °-
    y/r+"xi
                                             ^7>

they would have found that such a solution really exists.
    However, the theorem which Euler gave, although limited in its

extent, yet proved to be of great importance, and may be considered
the foundation of the theory of elliptic functions given by Legendre,
the different properties of which are implicitly contained in Euler's
solution, although Legendre's talents and industry were requisite
to draw them forth, and develop them with clearness and precision.

   While examining this subject in the year 1825, I met with a new
property of the equilateral hyperbola, which appeared to me to be of
great importance, as it gave the algebraic sum of three arcs of that

curve.

   If the abscissae of the three arcs are the roots of a cubic equation,

of this particular form, viz. : x%     x -- r = 0, I found that the

sum of the arcs was     an algebraic quantity. In    this equation   the
letter r is arbitrary.  Each particular value which  is attributed
                                                                    to it

furnishes a solution of the problem, that is, it gives three arcs whose
sum is algebraic.

   I verified the truth of this theorem by numerical computations of
different examples of it, but in so doing I met with two difficulties
of a novel nature. The first was, that by attributing certain values
to r, the cubic equation had two impossible roots, and the theorem

then apparently ceased to have any real meaning. (At that rime
Legendre had not yet demonstrated the fact, that two imaginary in
tegrals can make a real integral by their addition.)
   The other difficulty was this, that in making the addition of the

three integrals, I found that it was necessary to attribute a negative
sign to one of them, and although by making actual trial in each
numerical example, it was easy to see which of the integrals had
this sign, yet it was by no means so easy to assign a convincing
reason why this ought to be the case.
   The method which had conducted me to this theorem respecting

the equilateral hyperbola, would, as I saw, furnish a multitude of

other theorems equally curious ; but the field of inquiry was so new,

and the results which it afforded at every step so ample, that I was
at a loss how to classify them, or reduce them into a clear and con
nected theory. For instance, I perceived that I might consider n
TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                                      3

variables instead of only three, and that I might suppose them con

nected by the general equation,                   =o,

                   x" + a *"-' + b 3?-* +
whose coefficients a, b, &c. are all different functions of an arbitrary
quantity r. Then, when any particular value is given to r, the n
roots of the equation (or in other words the n variables) become de
termined as to their numerical value.

   And if r changes its value to another value, the n variables seve

rally undergo a corresponding change. Therefore they all vary
simultaneously, and the variation of any one of them is a determinate
function of the' variation of any of the others.
The a variables being connected in this manner, I found that the
values of certain integrals which depend upon them might frequently
be shown to have an algebraic sum. That is to say, the equation of
condition between the variables bring given, new properties of various

integrals were found to be deducible  therefrom. But      t"heWhinevnertshee
problem was found to be much more     difficult, namely,

form of the integral was given, to discover the equation which ought
to be assumed between the variables."
This problem is the more important one because it is what occurs
in practical applications of the calculus. The solution of it, which

I have given in the Transactions of the Royal Society for 1836, ap
pears to me to be as simple as the nature of the problem admits of,
and it conducts readily and rapidly to the form of equation which
ought to be assumed in any particular instance. And the form of
that equation being known, the properties of the integral frequently
flow from it with a facility which is surprising, considering the na
ture and difficulties of the inquiry.

   While I was occupied in this investigation, that distinguished ma

thematician Mr. Abel published a very remarkable theorem, which
/gives the algebraic sum of a series of integrals of the form --
                                                                        .,

when P and R are polynomials in x of any degree.
   The methods of reasoning by which he arrived at this theorem

appear to have been quite different from those which I pursued, and
the form of his solution is altogether different from mine, although

in all those instances which I have tried the results ultimately con
cur (as might be expected). But it will be observed that this cele-
J/ V,R_,PYdxLrated theorem is limited to those forms of integbral
                                                                   where

the polynomial R has a quadratic radical.
My method, on the contrary, applies with equal facility to the Cu
bic Radicals and to those of all higher degrees, as well as to a great
many other integral forms of a more complicated nature.

   I have therefore proposed to drop the name which Legendre has
given, of Ultra- Elliptic Integrals, since it appears that no line of di
stinction can be drawn between them and integrals in general, which
possess similar properties to an extent so much greater than has been
hitherto imagined.
                    b2
4 SIXTH REPORT. -- 1836.

In prosecuting further inquiries it will be desirable to consider
which are the forms of transcendents which ought to be reckoned as
next in order to those whose properties have been hitherto most in
vestigated, viz., to the Circular Logarithmic and Elliptic functions.
   It appears to me that the transcendents might be divided and
classed according to the number of them which it is requisite to com
J J/bine in order to obtain an algebraic sum. Thus the transcend
ent /--y/,\+x> is of a more complicated nature than  \/,\+x,*_ ,

because it is requisite to unite three terms of the former to obtain an

,//algebraic sum, while
   According to this
it suffices                   to add two terms of the latter one.
view the                                            /*--Vld=+x=i>= will be the
                              transcendent

representative of a class whose properties are to be examined by
themselves, and which   are probably irreductible to transcendents  of
a lower class. Before,  however, occupying ourselves with these,    it

is well to inquire what results these new methods give when applied
to the arcs of the Conic Sections, a subject which was supposed to
have been almost exhausted by the labours of Legendre, but which
the researches of Jacobi, Abel, and others have shown to be far from

being so.

   I have found, with respect to my own method, that besides the
theorem which I originally met with concerning the sum of three

arcs of the Equilateral Hyperbola, it likewise gives a number of other
theorems respecting the sums of the arcs of the Conic Sections.

    But which of all these theorems are essentially different from each
other it requires much time to thoroughly examine. And since it is
desirable for the sake of verification, and to avoid falling into errors,
to accompany the processes of analysis with numerical examples,
these examples, if calculated to six or seven places of decimals, often
run into extreme prolixity, and would be best accomplished by the
assistance of several independent calculators.

On the Calculus of Principal Relations.             By Professor
                       Sir W. R. Hamilton.

The method of principal relations, of which Sir W. Hamilton

gave a short explanation, is still more general than the analogous
researches in optics and dynamics presented to former meetings of
the Association. By it the author proposed to reduce all questions
in analysis to one fundamental equation or formula, no matter how nu

merous the conditions, or the independent variables might be. He
has found the following relation, which he has termed principal, to
subsist between all differential functions, no matter how numerous, or

r ---Independent                         =
the variables,          viz.  :     d       S»--x 
                                       .r
                                 8
            TRANSACTIONS OF THB SKCTION.S.

Illustration of the Meaning of the doubtful Algebraic  SStiegvn einllyc.ertain
      Formula of Algebraic Geometry. By Professor

    The author had been led some years since to see the importance
of the present question as bearing upon the determination of geo
metric positions by algebraic symbols, by finding that, when trans
forming the axes of coordinates, it was sometimes requisite to use
the positive sign for the perpendicular let fall from a given point
upon a given line, and at other times the negative sign, although no
intelligible reason for the difference was assigned in the books, nor
could he for a long time give any reason that was satisfactory to his
own mind, or which would lead to an unvarying rule. At length,
while reflecting upon the origin of this doubtful sign, he was led to
a conclusion which was quite satisfactory to himself, and which fur
nished, he conceived, a complete key to the interpretation of this
and many similar cases.

                                                               A' P

It is well known that if A Av and B B' be the axes of coordi
nates, O being the origin, and it be arbitrarily determined to con
sider distances measured from O towards B1 as positive, it is ne
cessary, by the connection between algebraic addition and subtrac
tion, and the increasing and diminishing of such distances, to distin
guish by the negative sign all distances measured from O towards B.
A similar rule holds for              A A\ and for every other axis
passing through O; from   the axis
                                      can be readily shown that all
                          hence it
lines drawn parallel to any fixed line, such as A A\ and falling
upon and terminated by B B\ must be similarly distinguished ;
those that fall upon the upper side or face, for example, being sup

posed to be positive, these falling upon the under side or face, must
be marked as negative. A similar rule can be easily shown to hold
for any line in the plane of these axes. And this being attended to
will inform us why algebra ought to mark with the sign + , the per
            let fall                  (p) whose
pendicular   whose    from a point    = ax+ b.   coordinates are (x yl)
upon aline             equation is y              Although at first we

should think that as but one point can have these coordinates, and

one line only have that equation, there can be but one perpendicular
to whose value we ought to be led ; yet, in fact, we find the per
pendicular to be + y """
                          --· . The reason why algebra leads
6 SIXTH REPORT. 1836.

us to this double value is obvious when we consider that all perpendi
tctihuvelea,rgsaivlulepnoonnlitnhoeeneboepsipdsouespiopterosfaesciddeeotoofrtrhfeaevcoeglvimveeunisntlitbnheee mbpealiarnkngeedcooafnssthindeeegrcaeotdoivreda;isnapftooerssi,if
lawtvtgiIunhinneiovtierylineyloitt,nhlnpsbiens,teoahpelififmoenotiirnwrtisewsngpthotteiifllrciltppppnoihottoeeaswbsniikitstiedi,ettiloiiihnlcotanaahugnnhtelpadanfohrvitwxsaheieinadtetudsifeorrwpnnoxbaepmheaesrediicepcnsrtnepoPhlynowetondnfathahtwidvhcliaeelicauescsrhrlutadipselturasteadphrhrmoepainfeetsfrvr;nootepltdomemhraibnycesugusiPsttltePaahfdamrfai;acnft;eelthlaesurenoriaotpqdnfusouutdptnhgahofehthieinnireoidssatnnlteeticnhsemefaeeedprsiomoromfewasbainrvitectheeoifeoviitltcrunohhshoo--.eet,ff
"~these perpendiculars is presented to us by the analytic investigation,
as + y            ^ -wrhile the other from the same point, P. upon

                             atsh,--e ys1a--m/e---aetq1--u--atiobn·,  y -- ax -- b -- o, is
~the line

brought
        expressed  still by
        under our  notice,

That this is the true origin of the double sign found in the in
vestigation of the length of the perpendicular, will be still more
clearly seen by tracing the varying length of the perpendicular, as

the line D'CD revolves from its first position. Let us suppose,
(in order to fix our ideas) round  some point, as C, which we may
suppose to hold its place. Then     as the revolving line approaches
P the length of the perpendicular     diminishes ; when it reaches P
that length vanishes; when it passes P the perpendicular now
falling on the face that had been at first averted from P, becomes
negative ; or, rather, has a sign opposite to that which we first at
tributed to it ; and this sign it retains as long as the perpendicular
continues to fall on the same face ; and therefore, when it has passed
through its semire volution, it retains that contrary sign ; but at the
end of the semirevolution, the perpendicular is the very same as it was
at first, and the line in the new position has the same equation that at
first belonged to it ; the face alone on which that perpendicular falls
has changed, and algebra marks that change by the change of sign
of the value of the perpendicular.  Indeed, it is easy to see that

after the semirevolution is completed, a perpendicular Pv A1 at an
                  from C\ and similarly situated                       on the other side
equal   distance                                                      of the given line,
from              erected upon the opposite face
       P A, and
will have come round to the portion of P A, and will then coincide
with it, if it be supposed to accompany the revolving line, and to be
inflexibly attached to it.
An account nearly the same can be given of the double sign of
the distance between two points (t' and (;r"y*)> which, as well
        is
                                                          y')

                                                  is If
                                                                                                    :
                                                                   if
                                                                                                           a
                                                                                          is
known, = + V(x -- O8 + (/-- y")*-   we at first arbitrarily as

sume the + value as belonging to the distance then                    point be
made to move from that given point, which nearest to the origin of
                TRANSACTIONS OK THE SECTIONS.                                                   7

itthewcilolo, rbdyinamteost,ionsupipnostehafrtomdirtehcetiopno,intd(e*s"cryi"b)etowanadrdsintchreeaostehepropsoitiivnet,
distances ; but, by a motion in the contrary direction it would de

scribe or increase negative distances. If we then suppose the in
definite line joining (.rly") and (x*y) to revolve slowly round one of
these points as a centre, suppose round (jf"y") the law of continuity
will compel us to consider a point moving the same way from the
fixed point as describing and increasing negative distances ; now,
when the revolving line has completed a semirevolution, it will again
(xy)pass through the second point, (.rV) > Dut a moving point setting
off from        must, in order to reach (a^y1), move along the inde

finite line after its semirevolution, in precisely an opposite direction
to that which led to the same point in its first position, and, there
fore, the same identical distance must, in this last position, be con
    a;
                                    ;

                            if,
                                                        it

                                                                                      ;

                                                                           it

                                                                                                                              a
sidered as negative,                in the first position, we assumed to be po
sitive and hence the double sign to which the analytic value directs
our attention.
In similar way we can explain the double sign of the secant of
an arch, the opposite sign of the secant of an arch, and of its sup
plement, and of the same arch increased by a semicircle. We may
also see the reason for the double sign of the analytic value of the
radius of curvature and thu3 many symbols which were formerly
not perceived to have any relation to position, will appear to have

very direct and intelligible relation to  and thus, much that was
formerly arbitrary will be rendered subject to precise rules.

On  " The Mathematical              RBuylesPfroorfecsosnosrtruScttinegvbClolym.pensating Pendu

                         lums."

    Accident led the author to the discovery of an error of serious;aa
consequence which he had previously never suspected, in the principleaaa
of calculating the dimensions of the several parts of compensating pena
dulums adopted by Captain Kater, and detailed by him in the lattera
part of the volume on Mechanics in Lardner's Cyclopaedia. Doctora
Templeton, of the Royal Artillery, had kindly undertaken to find a
meridian line at the apartments of the Museum of the Belfast Natu
ral History Society. When doing so he had used well-made eight-
day clock furnished with a pendulum with deal rod, which although
carefully made had not been intended to compensate for changes of
temperature. This pendulum had gone in room immediately under
a leaden roof during very cold winter, and afterwards during a very
hot summer, and yet had not varied more than very few seconds
from mean time, and even that variation had not taken place with
any considerable departure from a mean rate of gaining. Surprise
at this fact led Mr. Stevelly to perceive that common deal rod pen
dulum, with large lenticular leaden bob resting on nut, and trans
fixed by the deal rod, must be to a certain extent compensating. He
then proceeded to calculate the exact dimensions for perfect compen
sation but upon applying the mathematical principle upon which he
had made the calculation to some of the examples given by Captain
                      SIXTH REPORT. -- 1836.

Kater, he arrived at dimensions differing so much from those given
by that eminent author as to lead him to fear that he had made some
gross error in applying the differential calculus to the investigation.
A little consideration, however, convinced him that the fundamental

principle of Kater's calculation was erroneous.
The erroneous principle virtually adopted by Captain Kater is, that
the centre of oscillation of the heavy metallic part of the pend ulum re
tains constantly its relative place in the mass; so that its distance from

the lowest part where it is supported by the pendulum rod is to be

taken as the length of metal whose expansions and con                    S
tractions are to compensate those of the rod. Now it is
almost obvious that the position of that centre in the mass
changes, on two accounts : first, the moment of inertia               1

of the mass which is the numerator of part of the value

of the length of the pendulum is changed by the chan
ging of the dimensions of the several parts of the pendu
lum by changes of temperature ; secondly, the distance
of the centre of gravity of the mass from the axis of sus
pension changes also, and it enters us a denominator into

the same value. These combined causes produce a
change of great practical consequence in the position of
the centre of oscillation during alterations of temperature.
   Time permitted Mr. Stevelly to exemplify these re
marks only in the pendulum composed of a deal rod sus
pended by a steel spring, and a leaden tube. This pendu

lum is perhaps the cheapest, simplest, and best that can

be made.

    Let the annexed figure represent a deal rod and leaden               7
tube pendulum ; S P = 2 inches of steel spring ; P D the

length of the deal rod to be calculated ; L D = 2 z =
length of leaden tube ; B a deal circular bracket, either turned and
fastened upon the end of the deal rod or made out of the same solid
piece of white deal wood with the rod, its use being to give a firm
support to the leaden tube. Let 2 r = the outside diameter of the
leaden tube, and 2 r' equal the diameter of the cylindric hole along
\its axis which receives the deal rod ; let G be the centre of gravity,

and O the centre of oscillation. Let S G = and S O = (for a royal
seconds pendulum) 39-13929 inches : denote this by /.

   It can then be easily shown by the formula; for centre of oscilla

tion, that

               /·« +  A >·'                                   4
                                3
                                                 . -- A=-- -        A.,
                                            A                     00
                                                                       +
                                              I.                              3
                      --+
                                                                                                 v

                                                                                       /

                                                                                                        is
By applying the differential calculus to find the change of po
sition of for changes of temperature, we shall see that since
            O

constant,                                   4    --2r'dr'-+ 2zdr  fW) dk.
                                              +
                                       ·>rdr

d(l-- A)= -dX =
Hence      TRANSACTIONS OF THK SECTIONS.

                                     2rdr+2r'dr' Izdz

Hence

      -d\

Now if we denote by d m the change of length which the unit
                 metal of which the tube is formed, suffers from
length of the                     which   the pendulum has been sub
the change of    tempsrature  to   r' dm  : and d z =: z dm ; and substi

jected, then dr  = rdm: dr'    =

tuting these, we have

                 d(/-A)-'         r* + r* Z*\l^'

                                          43

-The height of the point O, above the     bracket which      supports it
                                          of place of O,    upwards or
is, = 2 (/-A). Hence the change           the differential  of this, and

downwards in relation to the bracket, is

is therefore equal to

Nttohufoerwethleeatnrhegmettehcotoaoecllffoicfmitchipeapetnantrsmtaoetoeftaf ld,tthhmeaeciccnphoeartndnhdiginsueglsuemxtopo,freKtsawhsteihoeonrss,ueisisspcmehthnaaednnignihfegeessigtlryhofotdrtoh;tfeewomhleaepnbreegoraavtshe
the bracket, which is

                 - -2 (/ A) = z           4   3

In other words, this is Kater'a coefficient   for dm; and sine*

iA<                    TZA . Xl~ r,+J^ #'                   X

                                          43

Consequently, for any      given «, Rater's coefficient will be  greater
than the true coefficient   ; therefore, it hence appears that
                                                                 he will
10 8IXTH REPORT. -- 1836.

be led to use a less z, or a less length of metallic tube than that
which   will truly compensate the changes                 of
   But  to proceed with the investigation,                    the suspending rod.
                                                          --
                                                              if ds and dp respectively
denote the alterations of the unit length of steel and of white deal
for the same change of temperature that causes dm in the unit length
of the metal used for the compensating tube, then the measures
being expressed in inches we shall have

x-2ds+(\-2 + z)dp=[                                       /rs+r/g 2zA K ,

                                                       v  /^--?-- %' . \dm
                                                                           4A 3Q

Since we have supposed the steel spring to be two inches long,
and the length of the deal rod is A -- 2 + z inches ; or.

2(ds-dp) + Kdp-z(dm-dp) = -'2                                            ,,   dm ,

                                                                  43          ....(4)

But from (a) it will appear that Xs                               -- = 2 A« -- / A,

\/ _ _VAnd solving (a) for A, we get A. = 2 h
                                                              H       r' + ^       £?'
                                                                                   3
                                                              4            4

the value of A., found with the negative                  radical, being the intercept
between    the centre   of gravity
denote                 radical in   and  centre           of oscillation. Now if we
         by R the                   the  value
                                                          of A, and substitute these
quantities in (6), we shall have

-\-±lr- J2(ds-dp)+^dp + Rdp-z(dm-dp) =                                       I dm

Ac,,-,,, +i,, y tjtor, by reducing,

dm -- dp
                       substituting for R» its value, and dividing by

V dm -- dpo            ..·S..... 3                            4 dm--  da p  _rq+r--J*
                                                                                     4

  /=According to the table   given by Kater, ds = 0000063596,
                           the material                   of the
dp = -0000022685, and if     39-13929.                            tube be    lead  dm
= ·0000159259; also,                                       If we   assume    the'  dia
                           be an inch and a half, and the hollow
meter of the leaden tube to

along its axis to be six tenths of an inch,                   then write r = -75, and
r' = -3, and substituting these respective
                                                              values in the foregoing
- - --=equation, and changing the signs of all the terms, we shall have
(z 3-84963) (382-807880426025 ^ )·                                    63-774774 ..(c)
TRANSACTIONS OF THK SECTIONS.                                    11

   Now by a well-known method, it is easy to find that z = 8"48252
will very nearly satisfy this equation ; so nearly that the change of a
unit in the fifth decimal place will make the side of the equation
upon which z lies differ from the other constant side in the fourth
decimal place by nearly two units. This is an accuracy quite un
necessary in practice, but Mr. Stevelly resorted to it, lest in quan
tities depending for their values upon such minute fractions as dp,
d s, and d m, there should be any source of fallacy in the mode of
calculating which did not readily appear ; and this course he was the
rather led to adopt as the length of r which he arrived at differs so
materially from that assigned by Captain Kater, and also by Mr.
Baily, if the latter be correctly quoted by Kater, in Lardner's Me
chanics. Mr. Baily's paper in the Astronomical Memoirs, Mr.
Stevelly had no opportunity of seeing. The length of 2 z according
to Kater should be 14-44 inches, and according to Baily, as quoted
by him 14"3. Now if either of these values be assigned to 2 z ; z will
be far from satisfying the equation (c) which has been above de

duced.

   The dimensions  of  the several   --paArts   of the pendulum  according to
Mr. Stevelly will  be  as follows :            steel spring two  inches long,

measured from the cock to the upper edge of the (iron) rivet which
attaches it to the deal rod ; a deal rod furnished with a circular bracket
at the bottom, diameter of deal rod = 0-6 inch. ; length from upper
edge of the rivet above, to the upper surface of the bracket upon which
the leaden tube rests, = 44*995 inches. The bracket may be easily
made of such a shape, while its upper circumference is nearly equal
to that of the leaden tube, as that the wooden part of the pendulum
alone shall swing in a second. The leaden tube is then to be 1 6°965
inches long; external diameter s= l-5 inch; diameter of the space
along its axis, through which the deal rod passes, six tenths of
an inch : the leaden tube will weigh about ten pounds avoir

dupois.

   If the numbers assigned by Kater be more correct than these, it

can only arise from the values of ds, dp, and dm not having been as
yet ascertained with sufficient accuracy, and perhaps an examination
of the rates of pendulums made of tubes and rods of various mate
rials would furnish the best possible method of examining the re
lative expansibilities of bodies under various temperatures.

   Mr. Stevelly thinks a bracket of wood firmly attached to the
lower part of the pendulum rod a method of suspending the
leaden tube much to be preferred to the method in use by a nut and
screw, for many reasons ; and thus mounted it becomes necessary to
have, at the upper part or suspension of the pendulum, some con
trivance for adjusting its length, so as to make the rate correct. Mr.
Stevelly exhibited to the section a nut and screw worked by a mi
crometer screw, the index of which may come out at the side of the
clock-case, and there point to a graduated circle ; and he stated that
so nice an adjustment may be effected by this, that upon a circle of
about three inches in diameter, each division ; being the tenth of an
inch in length ; would correspond to an alteration of the length of the
12 MXTH HKPOHT. 1836.

pendulum equal to the 1 40,000dth part of an inch ; while the entire
suspending apparatus may be firmly screwed to the stone back of
the clock-case, and thus afford a very steady means of suspension,
quite independent of the clockwork. By this means an alteration
of the rate of the clock may be effected without stopping it ; and an

alteration to any required amount may be at once effected, after it

has been ascertained by experiment what change is made in the rate
by moving the micrometer index through a given number of the
degrees of its circle.

   A leaden tube, such as here described, can be very easily drawn

at any place where leaden tubes are manufactured, and is the cheapest

and best material for the purpose. It will be proper to prepare
the deal rod by baking ; then by passing it through a cork in the
upper part of the receiver of an air pump, the ends of it can be
dipped into melted shell lac after the air has been extracted ; the
readmission of the air will drive the lac into the pores ; its outside
surface should also be made of the colour of lead by rubbing it with
black lead, a matter well known to be of considerable importance ;
and when the parts of the pendulum are put together, all may be

varnished.

On  the  Importance       ofPlfaocrme.inBgynJe.w  Empirical Tablet for  finding  the
                  Moon's                          W. Lubbock, Esq.

During the last and the present century the tables for finding the
places of the moon and planets have been so much improved that
they may now be considered as sufficiently accurate for the purposes
of navigation.  If therefore astronomical tables were to be viewed

merely with reference to the facilities which are obtained through
their means for long voyages, astronomers might be said to have ac
complished all that was expected from them. Astronomers, how
ever, have never been satisfied with this view of the question, but they
have constantly endeavoured to reach by calculation and theory the
same degree of accuracy as that which is obtained in fixed observa
tories with the best instruments. This being the case much remains
to be accomplished. The expressions for the longitude and latitude
of the moon, to which I shall confine myself in the following re
marks, have not yet arrived at the desired precision, although the
difficulties which remain to be overcome are by no means insur

mountable.

   The most remarkable works on the theory of the moon, on account

of their extent, are those of MM. Damoiseau and Plana.
   M. Damoiseau's work, to which a prize was adjudged by the
French Institut, was published by that learned body in the Memoires
des Savans Etrangers. M. Damoiseau has pushed to an almost in
credible extent the approximation, following closely the method
given by Laplace in the Mt"c. Cel., and originally chosen by Clairaut.
But M. Damoiseau's calculations are so conducted and are presented
in such a shape, that it would be next to impossible to verify them,
nor do I think that such a verification will ever be attempted.
       TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                                                 13

   The publication of M. Plana's work constitutes a new era in the

question, from the circumstance that the results are therein deve

loped by M. Plana according to powers of the eccentricities, inclina
tions, &c, and also of the quantity in, which denotes the ratio of
the sun's mean motion to that of the moon. The methods employed
by M. Plana are otherwise similar to those of M. Damoiseau, but
M. Plana's results possess the inestimable advantage of permitting
each term of which a coefficient is composed to be verified sepa
rately. The form in which M. Plana's results are presented also
enables us to examine them with facility and to judge of their con
vergence. Unfortunately we soon find that the expressions for the
coefficients in many cases do not converge, so that it will be difficult,
if not impossible, to push the approximation so far as to arrive A
priori at expressions upon which reliance can be placed for the prin
cipal inequalities, such for example as the annual equation in longi
tude*.

    In consequence of this difficulty I wish to call the attention of the
Section to the importance of deducing the numerical values of these
coefficients from the best observations empirically, and of thus con
structing new Lunar Tables, which may serve to check the results
obtained by theory, and which may be inform unobjectionable. The
Tables of Burckardt, otherwise of great merit, and the best empiri
cal Tables of the Moon at present in existence, were constructed
before theory had been brought to its present state ; and their form
is such that it would be difficult to render them available in the
manner I have pointed out.

    M. Plana has pushed the approximation to so great an extent that
if his figures could be depended upon the subject might perhaps be
considered as exhausted practically ; but notwithstanding M. Plana's
great skill and care, of which I am well convinced, it is unlikely that
calculations of such prodigious difficulty and complexity should be

free from errors.
    The construction of empirical Lunar Tables such as I have recom

mended resolves itself into a question of expense ; for we have com
puters in this country who are competent to undertake a work of

this nature under proper guidance.

On  thLrigAhctt.ionByofSCirryDsatavlliidzeBd rSeuwrfsatceers,  upon Common and Polarized
                                                               K.G.H., V.P.R.S.Ed.

   In the year 1819 I submitted to the Royal Society a series of ex

periments on the action of crystallized surfaces on common and
polarized light. These experiments established in the clearest man-

- - -- -96--· According to M. Plana this coefficient contains the following terms :

           3 +,7135?»,,+, 1261 -4. +, 142817 '

    ^  3257662  n,  964470235                                  T
           576          55296
14 SIXTH REPORT. 1836.

ner that the interior forces, which produce double refraction, extend
within the sphere of the ordinary reflecting force, and modify its ac
tion not only in polarizing common light and changing the planes
of polarized light, but in reflecting different quantities of light at

different angles of incidence.

   These experiments excited no attention among those who were
studying the theories of light till 1835, when they attracted the no
tice of Mr. Maccullagh, of Trinity College, Dublin, who was tlien
engaged in investigating the laws which regulate the reflexion and

Mr.refraction of light at the separating surface of two media.

    From principles analogous to those employed by Fresnel,
Maccullagh has anticipated effects quite the reverse of those de
duced from my experiments ; and in order to account for the latter

he was obliged to abandon to a certain degree the physical ideas of
Fresnel in so far as to make the vibrations of the wave parallel to

its plane of polarization, in place of perpendicular to it.' From the
theory thus modified Mr. Maccullagh has shown that when a ray is
polarized by reflection from a crystal the plane of polarization de
viates from the plane of incidence, except when the axis lies in the lat
ter plane. The formula which expresses this deviation represents
very accurately the measures of the polarizing angles in different
azimuths, which I have obtained in the only surface in which the
exception is true ; but at all other inclinations of the reflecting plane
to the axis, the formula and the theory are in fault, as there is a
large deviation when the axis or principal section of the crystal is in
the plane of reflexion.

   After the publication of my paper of 1819 I had more than once

resumed the subject ; but the difficulty of obtaining highly polished
surfaces of calcareous spar at different inclinations to the axis forced

me to abandon the inquiry. When I found, however, that Mr.

Maccullagh had succeeded in deducing from theory the general fact
of a deviation increasing as the refractive power of the medium ap
proached to that of the spar, I had no doubt that he would bring the

more complex phenomena under the dominion of theory, provided I
could furnish him with their physical law. In this expectation I

devoted my whole time to the inquiry during the last winter, with
more knowledge of the subject and better means of observation ; and

I should have made much greater progress than I have done had I

been able to procure crystals of calcareous spar suited to my pur
pose. In this difficulty I applied to the British Museum through

Mr. Konig, for some useless fragments of their specimens, but I

was mortified to find that an Act of Parliament prohibited even the
dust of a crystal from being removed from its walls.

    The difficulty which I experienced in obtaining crystals with
planes sufficiently regular and polished, obliged me to work with

artificially polished surfaces ; and I have to express my obligations
to Mr. Nicol, of Edinburgh, for the kindness and the love of science
which led him to polish with his own hands the surfaces which I

required.
                TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                     15

   In attempting to give the Section some idea of the nature and
singularity of the results which I obtained, I shall omit all details
and confine myself to the statement of the general phenomena.
When light is reflected at the separating surface of two media,
the lowermost of which is a doubly refracting one, the reflected ray
is exposed to the action of two forces, one of which is the ordinary
reflecting force, and the other a force which emanates from the in
terior of the doubly refracting crystal. When the first medium is
air, or even water, the first of these forces overpowers the second;
raosepnffadrtarh,cetwinivhoeitgchheepnroIewrtwaehliras,tht--ehIdeiwnetaofsoferecdoxtebsarlimgoteihfndaett,htetomhoeuingseiehnttaoereirelxioohsrfiobcfiaotmsrsciatiessak,eeo--dfffetahcbtefyslutciihndaedlceoaepfrfeefhneoidcugtshs
ently of those which arise from ordinary reflexion.    The separating
                                                       power, and the
surface therefore which I used had a small refractive

reflecting pencil is so attenuated, especially in using polarized light,
that it is almost impossible to use any other light than that of the sun.
When a pencil of common light is reflected from the separating
surface of oil of cassia and calcareous spar, the general action of the
spar is to polarize a part of the ray in a plane perpendicular to that
of the reflexion, and thus to produce by reflexion the very same effect
that other surfaces do by refraction.

    On the face of calcareous spar perpendicular to the axis of the cry
stal the effect is exactly the same in all azimuths, but in every other
face the effect varies in different azimuths and depends upon the in
clination of the face to the axisof double refraction. On the natu
ral face of the rhomb common light is polarized in the plane of re
flexion in 0° of azimuth, or in the plane of the principal section ;
but at 38° of azimuth the whole pencil is polarized at right angles
to the plane of reflexion, and in other azimuths the effect is nearly
the same as I have stated in my printed paper.
   In order, however, to observe the change which is actually pro
duced upon light it is necessary to use two pencils, one polarized
+ 45°, and the other -- 45° to the plane of incidence. The planes
of polarization of these pencils are inclined 90° to each other, and
the invariable effect of the new force is to augment that angle in the
same manner as is done by a refracting surface, while the tendency
of the  ordinary reflective force is to diminish the same angle.  Hence
        led to make an experiment in which these opposite         forces
I was
might compensate one another. I mixed oil of olives and oil of cassia
till I obtained a compound of such a refractive power that its action
in bringing together the planes of polarization should be equal to the
action of the new force in separating them. Upon reflecting the com
                from this surface I was delighted  to find that the incli
pound   pencil  planes was still 90°, and I thus   obtained the extraor
nation  of the

dinary result of a reflecting surface which possessed no action what

ever upon common or upon polarized light.
The action of the new force when the plane of reflexion coincides
with the principal section of the crystal is obviously inexplicable by
16 SIXTH REPORT. -- 1836.

any theory of light, though I have no doubt tiiat the undulatory
theory will ultimately accommodate itself to this as well as to other

classes of phenomena which it does not at present embrace. The

difficulty, however, is increased by another result of my experiments
which it if important to notice. On the faces of the spar which are
inclined 0°, 4o°, and 90° to the axis of double refraction, the action
of the new force is symmetrical upon the two pencils of polarized
light, whose planes are inclined + 45°, and -- 45° to the plane of in
cidence, whereas in all intermediate faces whose inclination to the
axis is 22£° and 67£°, the plane of one of the polarized rays remains
stationary, while that of the other is turned round 15°.

   This effect is undoubtedly a very extraordinary one, and indicates
some singular structure in calcareous spar, the nature of which it is
not easy to conjecture.

    I have examined these phenomena by using in place of oil of cassia
various fluids whose refractive powers descend gradually to that of
water ; but it would be a waste of time to give any detailed account
of them at present. I shall only state that the action of the new
force becomes weaker and weaker as the force of ordinary reflexion
is increased by diminishing the refractive power of the oil which is
placed in contact with the spar. With an oil of the highest refractive
index the action of the new force predominates over the feeble power
of the ordinary force of reflexion. With an oil of a lower index the
two forces exactly balance each other, while with oils of still lower
indices of refraction the ordinary force overcomes and conceals the
action of the new one.

    Although I have obtained pretty accurate measures of the amount
of the deviations produced by the new force on eight surfaces differ
ently inclined to the axis, and in various azimuths on these surfaces,
yet many experiments are still necessary before we can hope to dis
cover the physical law of the phenomena ; and if this should be done
I have no doubt that Mr. Maccullagh will be equally successful in
the higher attempt of accounting for them by some modification of
the undulatory theory.

On a singular Development of Polarizing Structure in the Crystalline
   Lens after Death. By Sir David Brew*tkr, K.G.H., V.P.R.S.Ed.
   In examining the changes which are produced by age in the

polarizing structure of the crystalline lenses of animals, I was in
duced to compare these changes with those which I conceived might

take place, after death, when the lens was allowed to indurate in the
air, or was preserved in a fluid medium. After many fruitless ex
periments I found that distilled water was the only fluid which did
not affect the transparency of the capsule, and my observations were
therefore made with lenses immersed in that fluid. The general
polarizing structure of the crystalline in the sheep, hqj-se, and cow,
consists of three rings, each composed of four sectors of polarized
                       TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.              17

light, the two innermost rings being positive like zircon, and the
outermost negative, like calcareous spar. In other cases, especially
when the lenses were taken from older animals, four rings were
seen, the innermost of which was positive as before.and the rest ne
gative and positive in succession.
I now placed a lens which gave three rings, in a glass trough con
taining distilled water, and I observed the changes which it experienced
from day to                                                    I had not anicipated
                       day. These changes were such as                               ;
bfiucatttiohnosu, ghI                                           under various modi
                       I have observed and delineated them     statement of the ge

                       shall confine myself at present to the
neral result. There is a Mack ring between the two positive structures
or luminous rings. After some hours' immersion in distilled water,
this black ring becomes brownish, and on the second day after the
death of the animal, a faint blue ring of the first order makes its
appearance in the middle of it, and its double refraction, as exhibited
by its polarized tint, increases from day to day, till the tint reaches
the white of the first order. Simultaneously with this change of
colour, the breadth of this new ring gradually increases, encroaching
slightly upon the inner positive ring, but considerably upon the
second positive ring ; so that the black or neutral ring which sepa
rates the two positive structures, and in the middle of which a new

luminous ring is created, divides itself into two black neutral rings,
the one advancing outwards, and diminishing the breadth as well as
the intensity of the second series of positive sectors, and the other
advancing inwards, and diminishing the breadth and intensity of the
inner or central sectors. While these changes are going on, the
outer luminous or negative ring advances inwards, encroaching also
on the second positive ring.
    Upon examining the character of the new luminous ring, the de

velopment of which has produced all these changes, I found it to be
negative, so that at a certain stage of these variations we have a posi

tive and a negative doubly refracting structure succeeding each other
alternately, from the centre to the circumference of the lens, such

as I have often observed in lenses taken from animals of greater age,

and examined immediately after death.
After this stage of perfect development, when there is a marked
symmetry both in the relative size and polarizing intensities of the
four series of sectors, the lens begins to break up. The new negative
ring encroaches so much on the two positive ones, which it separates,
that the outer one is sometimes completely extinguished, while the
breadth and tint of the inner sectors are greatly diminished, so that
the highest double refraction exists in the newly developed ring. In
a day or two this ring also experiences a great change of distinctness
and intensity, and the lens commonly bursts on the fifth or sixth day,
sometimes in the direction of the septa or lines where its fibres have
their origin and termination, and sometimes in other directions.
In order to give a general idea of the cause of these singular
changes, I may state that the    capsule which incloses the lens is a
highly elastic membrane -- that  it absorbs distilled water abundantly
Vol. V. 1836.
                                    c
18 SIXTH REPORT. 1836.

-- and that, in consequence of this property, the lens gradually in
creases in bulk, and becomes more globular, till the capsule bursts
with the expansive force of the overgrown lens. That the reaction
of the elastic capsule contributes to modify the polarizing structure
of the interior mass, cannot admit of a doubt, as it is easy tc prove
that that structure is altered by mechanical pressure ; but I cannot
conceive how such a reaction could create a new negative structure
between two positive ones, and produce the other phaenomena which
I have described. I have been led therefore to the opinion, that
there is in the crystalline lens the germ of the perfect structure, or
rather the capability of its being developed by the absorption of the
aqueous humour ; that this perfect structure is not produced till the
animal frame is completely formed ; and that when it begins to
decay the lens changes its density and its focal length, and some
times degenerates into that state which is characterized by hard and

soft cataract.

   The results of which I have now given an exceedingly brief notice,
appear to me to afford a satisfactory explanation of those changes
in the lens which terminate in cataract, a disease which seems to be
more prevalent than in former times. Accidental circumstances
have led me to study the progress of this disease in one peculiar
case, in which it was arrested and cured ; and I am sanguine in the
hope that a rational method of preventing, and even of stopping the
progress of this alarming disease, before the lamina' of the lens have
been greatly separated or decomposed, may be deduced from the

preceding observations.
   As the experiments, however, and views upon which this ex

pectation is founded, are more of a physiological than of a physical
nature, I am desirous of submitting an account of them to the Me
dical Section, that they may undergo that strict examination which
they could receive only from the experience and science of that di
stinguished body.

On the Laws of Double Refraction in Quartz. By J. M'Cullagh.

                       Fellow of Trinity College, Dublin.

    Among the desiderata of optical science, one of the most remark
able is a mechanical theory of the laws of double refraction in quartz,
or rock-crystal. These laws, which, as far as we know, are pecu
liar to that crystal, were made out by the successive labours of Ara-
go, Biot, Fresnel, and Airy ; of whose researches a full account
has been given in the Report on Physical Optics, drawn up for the
Association by Professor Lloyd*. But the laws so discovered were
merely isolated facts ; no connexion had been traced amongst them,
if we except Fresnel's beautiful explanation of the rotatory phaeno
mena. It was the object of Mr. M'Cullagh's communication to

   * Reports of the British Association for the Advancement  of Science, vol. iii.

p. 405--409.
TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                                                       19

prepare the way for a mechanical theory, by showing that all the
pha?nomena may he grouped together by means of a simple geome
trical hypothesis, which consists in the addition of certain terms
(involving only one new constant,) to the ordinary differential
tions of vibratory motion.      oTfhethoerddiinspalrayceemqeunattsion--s               equa
                                                                           contain  two se
cond differential coefficients                                            one with  respect

to the time, the other with respect to the coordinate z, perpendicular
to the wave. The additional terms may be any odd differential co
efficients (with respect to z) of the alternate displacements, these
coefficients being multiplied by a proper function of the length of a
wave. The third differential coefficients are chosen for simplicity,
because then the multiplier is a constant quantity. Setting out from
this hypothesis, we arrive immediately at all the known laws, and
obtain at the same time a law that was previously unknown, and
which is technically called the law of ellipticity. This law is ex
tremely simple, being expressed by a quadratic equation.                            Two
sets of experiments, made long ago by different observers, and re
lative to two classes of phenomena, between which no connexion
was hitherto perceived, are now, by the law of ellipticity, connected
in such a way, that the one may be computed solely from the data
furnished by the other ; the ellipticities observed by Mr. Airy in rays
inclined to the axis of quartz, being computed from the angles of
rotation observed by M. Biot in rays parallel to that axis, and a
strict agreement being found between calculation and experiment.
The discontinuous form of the wave-surface in quartz is also ex
plained, and its equation for the first time determined.. The parti

culars of the investigation will be published in Vol. XVII. of the
Transactions of the Royal Irish Academy.

              On Polarization. By the Rev. Edward Craig.

   The Rev. Mr. Craig read a paper to show that the phenomena of
polarization are consequences and indications of the molecular struc
ture of refracting substances, and explicable by it ; illustrating his
views by some uniaxal crystals, and particularly the Iceland spar.

On some Phenomena of Electrical Repulsion. .By Wm. Snow Harris.
                                          F.R.S.

    The only connected and extensive series of experiments in statical
electricity which have ever appeared are those of Coulombe, com
municated to the Royal Academy of Sciences at Paris so long since
as the years 1782 and 1789; since which time, if we except the
valuable contributions of Professor Robison of Edinburgh, little
has been effected in this department of science. Coulombe's highly
important researches, however, altogether rest upon the principle of
electrical repulsion, employed as a quantitative measure, through the
agency of the proof plane and the torsion balance. The author
therefore considers, that some further verification of the experi
mental processes resorted to by this distinguished philosopher is still a

                                                                c2
20 SIXTH REPORT. -- 1836.

desideratum in common electricity, more especially as it may be
shown that the divergence of similarly electrified bodies is, in its
application to quantitative processes, liable to much discrepancy.
The author exhibited his new species of balance, some account
of which he had already submitted to the Physical Section at
the last Meeting of the Association ; since this however it had
undergone considerable revision. The reactive force of this in
strument, termed a biple balance from the peculiar principle of its
action, is not derived from elasticity as in the balance of torsion of
Coulombe, but is altogether dependent on gravity; it seems ex
tremely well adapted to the measurement of small forces generally,
and to researches in electricity and magnetism, and may be con
verted if required into a balance of torsion, free from many difficul
ties of a mechanical kind, generally attendant on the employment of
that instrument.
In examining the operation of the repulsive force between two
small insulated discs of -4 of an inch in diameter, the author

finds that the repulsion is not always in the ratio of the quantity of
electricity with which either, or both the discs is charged ; or as the
squareFs of the distances inversely, according to the general expres-

·ion -pTj deducible from Coulombe's researches. That hence the

two constants R R of which we may suppose the force F to be

made up, do not necessarily enter into the composition of the result,
ko as to cause the total force to increase or diminish with the elec

tricity contained in either. The author here referred to the tabulated
results of above five hundred experiments, taken in a good insulating
atmosphere. In these experiments the discs were both equally and
unequally charged with electricity in known proportions, and placed
at various distances apart. From these results it appeared,
   First, that the forces were only as the squares of the distances
inversely when the repelling bodies were equally charged, and to a
moderately high intensity, and even then this law did not always ob
tain at all distances; when the discs began to closely approximate
the law was observed to vary, and at last to approach that of the in
verse simple distance.

Second, the deviations from the general law deducible from Cou
lombe's experiments are more apparent as the intensity of the charge
is diminished, the inequality of the respective quantities with which
each body is charged greater, and the distance less ; under any or all
of these conditions, the rate of increase of the repulsive force dimi
nishes, and the repulsion is at length superseded by attraction.

   Third, the quantity of electricity contained in either of the re
pelling bodies is not always in the ratio of the repulsive forces : thus
it was seen by the tabulated results, that the respective quantities of
electricity   at a constant distance  D were in several instances in the
ratio of 2 :                          corresponding forces of repulsion
              1 and 4:1, whilst the

were as 3 : 1 and 5 : 1 respectively. Hence the electrical reactions
may be in one proportion, and the quantities of electricity in another.
TRANSACTIONS OF THK SECTION'S.  21

     Although these results may seem at first anomalous, yet they are
 still such as would necessarily arise out of the known operation of
 electrical induction. The inductive process is not confined to the
 case of a charged and neutral body, but operates more or less freely

 even between bodies similarly charged : whatever therefore be the
 precise nature of the inductive force, it is present in every case of

 statical electrical action, although under certain conditions the re
 sulting attraction attendant on it is not always apparent, or is
 otherwise of a negative character ; the tendency of the inductive
action being first, to raise the anti-attractive state of the bodies to
zero, if such previously exist ; secondly, to generate in them an
actual attractive force. He conceives, therefore, that no essential
difference exists in this process, whether it take place between si
milarly or dissimilarly charged bodies, or between a charged and a
neutral body. The only distinction necessary is, that in the latter
case the induction commences at a limit which may be termed zero ;
in the former cases it commences either above or under that limit.
The author considers that electrical induction between two similarly

charged bodies, may become indefinitely modified by the various
circumstances of quantity, intensity, distance of the repelling bodies,
and the like, giving rise to apparently complicated phenomena, as
he thinks is evident in his tabulated results. One condition favour
able to the disturbances above mentioned, and of importance to
notice, is the inequality of the repelling bodies in respect of ex
tension. Thus in connecting an insulated sphere with the fixed ball
of the balance, the force between the discs will be often in the simple
inverse ratio of the distance, or at least very nearly in that ratio, and
will be frequently in the ratio of 3:1, when the quantity of elec

tricity on the charged sphere is as 2 : 1 .
    The author considers these facts of great consequence to any ex

perimental inquiry in electricity through the agency of repulsion,
more especially those connected with the use of the proof plane.
The relative electrical capacities of a hollow sphere and a circular
plate of equal area, each side to each side, as determined by Cou-
lombe's method, is involved in some uncertainty on this account.
In the detail of Coulombe's experiments, given in Biot's celebrated
Traiti de Physique, the capacities of the plane and sphere appear to
be in the ratio of 2 : 1 . Hence the plane is considered to have a
double surface of action, the interior surface of the sphere not par
ticipating in the distribution of the charge. The result of the con
tact however of the plane and sphere, and from which it is inferred
that the electricity became finally shared between them, in proportion
to their exterior surfaces, does not seem to have been compared with
the result of a similar contact between the charged sphere and a
neutral sphere of the same diameter. According to the theory, the
electrical reactions after contact with the plate should greatly ex
ceed that after contact with a similar sphere ; it should in fact be
the same as that after contact with a sphere whose exterior surface

was equal to the two surfaces of the plate. This point deserves
22 SIXTH BEPOKT. 18.J6.

great attention since it is of importance to an exact theory of elec
tricity. :

   The author submitted to experiment under various conditions,
two equal spheres and a circular plate of the same extent of surface,
each side to each side, and found their electrical capacities precisely
the same. Thus the result of the contact with the charged sphere
and a similar neutral sphere, or with a circular neutral plate, was
precisely the same. The same quantity of electricity disposed either
upon the sphere or plate, in connexion with the fixed ball of the
balance, evinced the same intensity ; and this intensity became also
equally diminished, whilst thus connected, whether the charged
body was touched with a sphere or circular plane of the same area.
The author does not pretend to question the faithfulness of Cou-
lombe's experiment, but considers his result embarrassed by the cir
cumstances just mentioned ; more especially as he found, that when
the electricity was equally distributed upon the repelling discs of the
balance, and the square roots of the forces taken to determine the
respective quantities of electricity, then the apparent differences in
the capacities of the sphere and plate vanished ; he considers there
fore that the traces of repulsion indicated by the balance did not in
Coulombe's experiment truly represent the ratio of the quantities of
electricity before and after the contact between the sphere and plate.

    These results were further verified by means of the attractive
forces, through the agency of a new electrometer, and which the
author exhibited and explained to the Physical Section at a former
meeting of the Association. The author next proceeded to consider
more at large the operation of the proof plane, and presented to the
Section the results of numerous experiments on tangent planes of
various degrees of thickness and extension, from which it appeared
that the indications of the proof plate might be so materially in
fluenced by the circumstances of position, intensity of the charge,
thickness, and the like, as not always to become charged, either with
a similar quantity or in the ratio of the quantity of electricity with
the point of the electrified body to which it is applied. In treating
of the proof plane, philosophers have considered its action in more
than one point of view. Mons. Biot states that it takes up upon
each of its surfaces as much electricity as exists upon the point
touched, hence on removal it is charged with twice the quantity of
electricity as that of the corresponding superficial element. Mons.
Pouillet, on the contrary, considers the proof plane to be in precisely
the same state as the superficial element itself, and to be on removal
in the same condition as a similar portion of the charged body would
be, if actually taken out of its surface, that is to say, the electricity
would be first collected on one surface, and be subsequently expand
ed on both ; each surface has therefore only half the quantity of the
superficial element, and the proof plane comes away charged with the
same quantity, but under a diminished intensity. The author deems
it worthy of further inquiry, whether the proof plane be really iden
tical with an element of the charged surface, or whether it be merely
TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.  23

in the condition of a neutral insulated body of small capacity, placed
 within an extremely small distance of a charged body ; and subject
 to the same laws as subsist between two such bodies under ordinary
circumstances at more considerable distances, but at which a com
 munication of electricity can take place, a rigorous examination of
 this question would probably elucidate many phenomena of elec
trical action, at present involved in some obscurity. In the mean
 time he thinks it not unimportant to review such facts connected
with this point as are already known. It has been found, for ex
ample, that the attractive force between charged and neutral bodies
is less when the neutral bodies are insulated, that very perfect in
sulators are not sensibly attracted by electrified substances, and that
in every case of electrical attraction the force is only in proportion
to the previous induction of which the bodies are susceptible ; in ac
cordance with these facts, a perfectly insulating disc reposes on a
charged surface without becoming sensibly electrified, an insulated
neutral conducting disc more or less so in proportion to its thick
ness, whilst a similar disc, whose inductive susceptibility is rendered
nearly perfect by artificial methods, becomes charged with an in
tensity nearly equal to that of the point to which it is applied.
Should therefore the inductive susceptibility of the tangent disc be
so influenced by position, in respect of the electrical molecules of the
charged body, as to become at any time nothing ; it would be as in
efficient in abstracting electricity, as a similar disc of any noncon
ducting substance. Now it is not improbable that an insulated con
ducting body of small dimensions, plunged within a spherical charged
shell, is thus circumstanced ; and hence it fails to become in any de
gree charged, notwithstanding that electricity may, experimentally,
be clearly proved to exist there.

    From these and a variety of other considerations, the author is
disposed to believe, that the force communicated to a proof plane can
not always be considered as a faithful indication of the electrical
state of a charged surface, since it forms no integral part of that sur
face, being really placed under the conditions of an insulated neutral
body of small and variable capacity, arising from the circumstances
of position, thickness, and the like, and which is about to receive
electricity from a charged body. He thinks that we really know
little about the actual distribution of electricity upon a charged sur
face, except through the medium of insulated discs, in some way
applied to it. Now he has already shown* that any charged body
only gives off its electricity under the influence of an attractive force ;
so that an electrified sphere, when completely insulated, will retain
its charge in the best vacuum which can be obtained by ordinary

means, provided it be free from any sensible source of attraction. It

is not therefore until we employ some substance susceptible of in
duction, that we begin to disturb the electrical distribution in
charged bodies, which may be previously uniform or nearly so.

   In conclusion, the author observed, that our present theories of
electricity may probably be found to require some considerable mo-

                                      * Phil. Tram, for 1834, p. 242.
24 SIXTH REPORT. 1836.

dification. and thought the subject highly worthy of the learning
and ability so conspicuously displayed by the English mathematicians.
He did not consider the ordinary theory of electrical distribution, or
the experimental data on which it depended to be so completely free
from objection, as to render all doubts of its accuracy unpardonable ;
he thinks that the attractive forces between charged and neutral
bodies in a free state depend only on the surfaces immediately op
posed, without regard to any hypothetical distribution arising from
the peculiar form or disposition of the unopposed parts ; he has cal
culated from very simple elements, the force which should arise be
tween opposed planes and spheres, and bodies of various forms,
whether connected or not with other masses, without any reference
whatever to the distribution of the charge, and finds the result veri

fied by experiment.

J.A Series of Experiments in Electro-magnetism,withWR.efMere'Gncaeulteoy.its

  Application as a Moving Power. By the Rev.

   Mr. M'Gauley thought it might not be inappropriate to men
tion to the Section what he had done in the application of electro-
magnetism to machinery since the last meeting of the British Asso
ciation. He would mention the principal difficulties which remained
to be overcome, after the construction of the working model he
had exhibited at Dublin. These, he believed, he had overcome, and

had in his possession a machine of not inconsiderable power.
    1st. Powerful magnets were to be constructed : the ordinary ones
were very imperfect, and their effect limited to inconsiderable di
stances ; their size could not be very great, as the helix must be propor
tioned to the iron, to saturate it, and yet cannot extend beyond a
certain distance from it, or it will be inefficient, perhaps of inju
rious effect. A number of coiled bars cannot be united so as to form

one great magnet : their poles could not be reversed, they would act

on each other in a greater or less degree by induction.
   2ndly. The action of several magnets cannot easily be united, since
all 3trhdelyp. olIefs
                       cannot be reversed at the same time  precisely.    is not
                       we succeed in uniting their action,   that action
easily applied to machinery : for let B be a bar of iron traversing
between the magnets Mand M'.
Let B be the position of the           fig. 1.

bar when C R is the position B B
fof the crank, B' its position
                                   "~                                  ' *^
when the crank is at C R', a M --                           |
dead point : if the bar is not
ready to leave the magnet M',
the inertia of the machinery
carries on the crank, and the engine is broken, or the bar torn off,

which very often deranges the reversion of the poles, nor can the
mechanism applied in other cases to prevent this injurious effect, be

here adopted.
Mr. M'Gauley exhibited a reversing apparatus, different from that
noticed last year, in which mercury is not required, and the difficulty
                TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                                             25

of attaching it to the machinery, so as to be worked by                         a it,     over
come. He reserved for a future occasion its description.                              is
The following experiments he had tried with great care, securing,
as far as possible, by cleaning the battery, renewing the charge,
&c, a perfect identity of circumstances, without which fair com

parison could not be made.

                                 The Hei.ix.
                            -- Horse-shoe soft
   Magnet,  No.                                   iron bar, 13£ inches across
the poles ;;          interior,                  length diameter of the bar
                                 ^ 1 7£exterior  1\
                5£                                        it $ ;
                          1.     inches long,          and thick. This keeper
     inches keeper 13^2£         with magnets       of the same size. The mag
used in all experiments
net covered with sealing-wax varnish before was coiled like the
others used in these experiments. It was coiled with 1690 feet of
No. 13 copper wire, in 10 equal helices. The battery foot square
double cell charged with in 50 sulphuric, in 100 nitric acid           1                  ;;
                                                             1
                  lifted at distance of fa inch, 4j lbs.                   it

-- 37-Removed one of the coils, and used similar charge,                              lifted at
                              fa inch, fts.
                                                1\

Used thicker wires at the poles of magnet and batteries,
                                         inch,
                                 fa*·at         14*  l--bs.
                                                42

Same magnet, charge, &c. one                     Same magnet, six coils, 900 ft.
coil of same wire, 150 feet ef
                                                                inch,  3 3 3£Hlbs.

fect at perceptible, lifted in
contact  1£
            2*  lbs.

   Same magnet, &c, two coils,                        fa....m
300 feet, lifted at fa . . 5flbs.
                                                   Same magnet, &c, seven coils,
   Same magnet, &c, three coils,
450 feet, lifted at                             1050 feet,

                 inch, 24 lbs.                                                        barely
                                                                                  perceptible.
         3                                                             % "IJ

   Same magnet, &c, four coils,                    Same magnet, &19ci, eight coils,
600 feet, at
                                                1200 feet,
                  inch, 24 lbs.                                      nch, 71 lbs.
          *

                 4
       fa#·.·'... 12*
                                                 Same magnet, &c nine coils,
   Same magnet, &c, five coils,
                                                1350 feet, at
750 feet,
                                                                inch            lbs.
        i.n.c.h., perceptible                                     8 5*i
        ....
         ....
     fa.... 12*
    % A| I

           443*

                                                                       21*
26 SIXTH RBl'ORT. -- 1836.

   Same magnet, batteries, &c., all the coils remaining on the bar ;
average of a number of experiments :

                                                                          lbs. lbs.

1 of the coils connected with                                                      2 helices forming one,

    battery                                                               J3| 4                            6T\j
2
3                                                                           75                             0
4                                                                         11} 6
                                                                          13£ 1                            4J
5
6

7

8

9

                           Second Series.

   No. 1. -- Horse-shoe iron bar, 9§ inches long, 1$ diameter, sur
mounted at poles by ground discs, 4 inches                                                   diameter,   f£eetthiNcko..
                                                                          thick, coiled      with 500
Keeper,   9 long,    4-,,jr wide,     haenlidces£;                        charge, 1 in
15 iron  wire, in   five equal                                                               50 sulphuric, 1 in

100 nitric acid :

   Magnet,    No.  2.  --  at -fa     inch,                                it lifted 6 lbs.  feet   No.  13 copper
                           Same       size,                               coiled with 500

Iwire in 5 coils ; same charge &c. :
         · at jt inch, it lifted 4 lbs.
   Magnet,    No.  3. -- Same size,                                       coiled    ;7±                 12 iron wire,
                                                                                  with 500 feet No.

                           Aat £ inch, it lifted 1£ lbs.
                                                             4
                                                                          Fig. 2.
   Magnet. No. 4. --Same                                                          V^T"T size' but d'scs or P°ies
                                      y(-_S^)>                                    ^--4  tlie co''s  on l'le ^i'ur 50°
replaced by pins, retaining                                                             battery,    &c. Hardly
feet No. 1 2 iron wire. Same          <^-' ^>
any effect.

                                      Third Series.

   In the other series, the charge is changed before                                         every      experiment.
JIn                                                                                            bar,      7 long, £
   this, the  same  1c.h--arSgoeftis   retained throughout.
   Magnet,    No.                     iron square horse-shoe                                             coiled with

squMMaaaregg,nneectot,,ileNNdoo..w3i2t..h----9SC0aamfseteeitrsoiNzneo,,.   13 copper wire.          $,
                                                                          same size and helix.

                                                                          but round bar diameter
90 feet of same wire, in two lengths each, distributed over the whole
bar.
   Magnet, No. 4. -- Same size and coiled with 60 feet, in two he
lices ; one on each half of bar ; number of coils increasing from
centre to poles ; charge 1 in 50 sulp., 1 in 100 muriatic acid ; keeper,
5| inches long, $ wide, £ thick.
                          TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                                                        27

                    .· . ·.                                                         lbs. oz.

                         lliMagnet, No. I lifted in contact 25 34
                                                 28
                                                                         3 39 3£
                                                                         4 39 3

                                      Fourth Semes.

       To test the comparative excellence of different charges, the gal
vanometer used on                     this occasion,                     was M, a small      but good
net; N, a                                                                                                      mag

                                   ,

needle, at zero, where the magnet was connected with battery B,
two inches square.

   The first deflection was carefully noted ; the number of degrees
at which the needle settled down, and the deflection after every
quarter of an hour for six quarters.

    Rain water was used; sulphuric acid, specific gravity 1840;
nit., spec. grav. 1410; muriatic, spec. grav. 1175; solution of
caustic potash, saturated.

                                                                          1st. Settled 1st.  2nd.  3rd.  4th.
                                                                         Def. dcf. Quarter.

Rain-water and nitric acid            1 in 21 parts                      90°   52°  ;i2j     16*   114    4i
                                                                          38   274           13      64
                                      31                                  46   40   154              84   5?
                                                                          38   34   31       144     74
                                      41                                  88   44            124     94   34         *
                                                                          40        264             6*    5
                                                                     51   67   30$  15*      n134   54                4
Rain-water and sulphuric acid, 1 in 21                                         44   10               2    84        7
                                                                          334  24   15        si     3    5
                                      31                                  97                         0              34
                                                                          58   334    34       24         44        24
                                      41                                  80   224    74      6*     54   0         0
                                                                          98   19     9        64         0
Rain-water and muriat                         51                          82                   7   a      0         0
                                      1 in 41                                  is     7*     11
                                                                          23$       24               14   44        0lj
                                      1 in 51                             50   60   24       154     0    6         a
                                                                          35                   4
Solution caustic potash                                                  115   201    7*       0    5*    74        54
                                                                          85   23     24           154      4       0
Sulp.  1 in  114,   nit                1 in 83                            88   25     74      64                    0
       1 in  264,                      1 in 53                            43   62i  284      184     34   0
                    --                1 in 323                                 464  10               4              »l
       1 in  1614,  --                                                   i25   45     8*       6     0   H
                                                                               0      0                             0
       1 in 2014,--                   1 in 403                            35   IS     0        61    0   10         0
                                                                          95   0      0        0                    0
Muriat. 1 in 52; sulp                 1 in 52                             95                   0     0    0
                                                                               26   13                     0        0
          1 in 52 ; nit.              1 in 52                                                  0     54    0        0
                                                                               35   334        8     94   0         0
          1 in 52§; sulp              1 in 103                                 59   40             10     0         0
                                                                                             154                    0
Solution  ca--us--tic--po--ta--sh  and surp. 1 in 51                                         16           3*        0
                                   and nit. 1 in 51                                                       0
                                                                                                          3
                                   and mur. 1 in 5 1

Sea water from Dublin bay

                                   and sulp. 1 in 5 1
                                   and nit. 1 in 51

Sulp., nit., and muriat., each 1 in 53
28 SIXTH REPORT. -- 1836.

Mr. M'Gauley wished to satisfy himself by experiment, that the
inverse ratio of the square of the distance is the law of the decrease
                                                    foonrethkeeeppreer,selnift,t
of magnetic attraction, but relinquished the  idea
when he found that the same magnet would,     with
one quantity at T'|T inch, with another the same quantity at 1 2 times
the distances, both keepers seemingly appropriate.
   In speaking of the nature of electro-magnetism, and its perfect
identity with electricity, he remarked, that we should if possible, in
comparing any agent with electricity, discover some property of the
latter, not the measure of, nor dependent on either its intensity or
quantity, which may be so various.
He attempted to show that the spark and shock obtained from an
electro-magnet, and which indeed may be obtained from a m<?re
heap of wire, are not the spark and shock either of the battery or

the magnet ; that currents cannot circulate perpetually round a mag
net, as the magnetism of a bar included in an helix, so far from in
creasing the effect of an helix, as it should by its current, may even
be made totally to prevent it, and ought to do so if it be mere in
duced electricity, a supposition strengthened by the otherwise uni
versal law of electrical induction.

He mentioned that he never was able to believe that the effect of a

galvanic circle was the transmission of electricity from zinc to copper
in any way, and back along a wire from copper to zinc, since the force
which drove it through the fluid, an imperfect conductor, ought to
prevent its return ; and that he had frequently tried in vain with se
veral pairs of plates, arranged singly in galvanic order in waterproof
cells, separated by glass plates, to deflect a needle. He believed it
was the arrangement of particles, impossible in insulating substances,
and not the transmission, which constituted galvanic excitement.
This supposition of electricity being mere inductive arrangement of

particles, he believed would unite and explain many different effects ;
amongst others, the agitation of the muscles of a frog, on breaking
connection with a single galvanic circle ; the danger of discharges
passing from cloud to cloud, and the shock obtained from a heap of
wire connected with a galvanic battery of a single circle.

On a New Compass Bar, with Illustrations, by means of a recent Instru
   ment, of the Susceptibility of Iron for the Magnetic Condition.
   By the Rev. W. Scoresby, B.D. F.R.S., Corresponding Member
   of the Institute of France, SfC

   Mr. Scoresby first exhibited to the Section a recent instrument
named a magnetometer, invented by himself in the year 1819-20, for
measuring minute magnetic attractions, and for finding the dip of
the needle by the observation of the plane of no -attraction. This
instrument has its principal recommendation in securing unity of
character in experiments on the magnetic condition, by enabling the
experimentalist to try and compare the energy of magnetic bars or
        TRANSACTIONS OF TUB SECTIONS.         29

needles by the deviations of a compass attached to the instrument,

under perfectly analogous circumstances, as to the distance and re
lative position of the bars and the compass.
   By means of this instrument, the extreme susceptibility of soft
iron for the magnetic condition, in the small measure of permanency
belonging to that substance, was exhibited in the case of a cylin
drical bar of almost six inches in length and a quarter of an inch in
diameter. This bar being laid in a groove of the moveable limb of
the magnetometer, and adjusted in the plane of the magnetic equator,
was shown to be entirely devoid of action upon the compass needle,
\\only  inch distance; the bar was then cautiously removed, and,
whilst held in a vertical position, was merely rubbed down two or
three times by the naked hand, and then replaced as before on the
instrument, when it was now found, very much in accordance with

former experiments, to have acquired magnetism to the extent of
producing a deviation of 5° on the needle of the contiguous com

pass.
   The object of this experiment was to point out the extreme cau

tion which is requisite to be observed in the mere moving or handling
of the substances made use of in delicate magnetical investigations,
such as the needles employed in experiments on the magnetizing in
fluence of the solar rays, since, as was now shown, the slightest
concussion, or even the friction of the fingers on a bar of iron or
soft steel favourably situated, may be productive of such striking

effects.

   Mr. Scoresby's new magnetical instrument, a compound compass

needle or bar, was then exhibited to the Section, and its construc

tion, adjustments, and capabilities, as far as had hitherto been as
certained, were described. The bar, which was sixteen inches in
length, consisted of six equal and similar plates or ribs of tempered
steel, placed parallel to each other, but not in contact ; which ribs,
in this case, were composed of the ordinary steel busks of the shops.

It was suspended on a point of steel, and its weight partly borne,

in any required proportion of the whole weight, by a single horse
hair (the torsion of which within the limited range of the vibrations
of the bar was insensible), suspended from a spring fixed on a cross
bar, supported on pillars, and adjusted in an exact vertical position
above the centre of suspension. The magnetic position was indi
cated by a graduated arch in the top of the instrument, with a ver
nier attached to each end of the bar. The principle from which
this bar was considered to have its superiority over a single bar of
the same weight and magnitude, was stated to be, that several thin

bars of tempered steel (tempered throughout the massj are found to
have a greater capacity for permanent magnetism than what is af
forded by the mere proportional of their mass similarly tempered,
so that the six tempered bars were capable of receiving a degree of
magnetic energy considerably greater than it was believed could be
permanently induced in any single bar of equivalent mass, whatever
might be its condition as to temper.
30 SIXTH REPORT. 1836.

   The author of this communication also mentioned some experi
ments illustrative of the general advantage of temper in bars or
needles in a moderate degree of hardness throughout their length,
instead of being tempered, as they usually are, both in sea compasses
and in ordinary magnets, only at the ends. This result, which at
first Eight might seem at variance with those obtained by Captain
Kater in his laborious investigations for determining the best con
struction for sea compasses, the author showed was not inconsistent
with established principles ; for whilst he admitted the correctness
of Captain Kater's conclusion as to the superiority, in point of ori
ginal energy, in needles tempered only at the ends, he suggested that
the ultimate advantage in long voyages, where great permanency
is requisite, or under circumstances where the permanency of the
energy is much tried, would probably be found in favour of tem
pered needles. At all events, in regard to compound needles and
compound magnets, the author had abundant experimental evidence
to prove that a thorough tempering is absolutely necessary for the
adequate retention of the advantage gained by the combination of
bars over single bars of equivalent mass.

Experiments on Terrestrial Magnetic Intensity, especially in relation
            to the Influence of Height. By Professor Forbes.

   These experiments were made with Hansteen's apparatus, the
property of the Royal Society of Edinburgh, chiefly in the years
1832 and 1835. The author particularly proposed to himself the
problem of the influence of height upon intensity, considering the
observations of Kupffer to be quite inconclusive as well as those of
preceding experimenters. He showed that by choosing stations at
considerable elevations, and placed on a ridge so as to have compa
ratively low stations on either hand, the influence of geographical
position in affecting the results may be eliminated ; the intensity at
the lower level for a point vertically below the elevated station being
obtained by interpolation, the difference between it and the observed
intensity may be fairly attributed to the influence of height abstract
ing from local disturbing causes. To correct for these, and likewise
to attain considerable numerical exactness, multiplicity of observa
tions is most desirable, nor can any satisfactory result be looked for

from a single experiment. It appeared from the tables of Professor

Forbes's observations in the Alps and Pyrenees, that the sum of the
heights to which the Hansteen apparatus has been carried by him,
and which forms the basis of his induction, is more than 160,000
feet, or 30 vertical miles.

   The author stated that he had not yet submitted his observations
to one system of calculation from which to deduce the elements of
disturbance with the greatest accuracy ; but he pointed out from a
great number of individual observations that had the diminution due
TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                                             31

to height amounted to anything like that assigned by M. Kupffer,
it could not have failed to be at once sensible. As it was, until

those calculations were made he did not see sufficient evidence to

prove any decided diminution*.

On the Direction of Isoclinfeasl sMoragPnehtiicllipLisn.es in Yorkshire.  By Pro

    Observing with reference to the course of the lines of equal dip on
the earth's surface that instances occurred, as for example between
Ireland and England, of the abrupt flexure or shifting of the lines,
for which no reason had been assigned, the author proposed to him
self to determine in a part of the North of England the exact course
of the isoclinal lines across a country of very peculiar physical con
formation, so as to learn how far flexures and breaks of these lines

depended on the relative height and mass of elevated land. The
direction of the principal masses of high ground in Yorkshire is very
favourable to such an inquiry, because the two great hilly regions of

the county are separated from each other by a wide, deep, level

vale ranging along the actual magnetic meridian; and thus by select
ing points in two circles round the city of York as a centre, one
constant point of reference could easily be had, and the experiments
repeated as often as needed, in order to test completely the depend
ence of the direction of the magnetic lines on the geological and
geographical configuration of the country. The researches, though
incomplete, had been carried so far as to give reason to believe that
across the two hilly regions and intermediate vale in question
the lines of equal dip were not straight, but bent to the south
in the vale, and turning up to the north on the hills. Hence
it would appear that the dip of the needle decreases as we rise
above the surface of the earth, so as to be well recognised at mode

rate heights. The author proposes to complete his observations
on an extended scale, and to add the results of some other ex
periments contemporaneously made as to the lines of equal (total)
magnetical intensity.

            On the Direction of the Isoclinal Lines in England.
   Professor Lloyd gave a brief account of a series of observations
on the direction and intensity of the terrestrial magnetic force,
which he had recently commenced in England. The stations of the
observations hitherto made extended from the North of Wales to the

    ·Since this communication was made the calculations alluded to have been per
formed, and from the agreement of different series made with different needles,
both in the Alps and Pyrenees, the author conceives that he has demonstrated the
existence of the supposed diminution and approximated to its amount, which is
-t-gfa of the horizontal intensity for every 3000 feet of vertical ascent.
32 SIXTH RRPORT. -- 18.36.

Isle of Wight, and it  was proposed to    extend   the series along    the
                       parts of England.     From  these observations
southern and eastern                                                     it
appeared that the mean direction of the isoclinal lines in England
differed materially from the direction of the same lines in Ireland.
In England the mean inclination of these lines to the meridian (as
deduced from the observations by the method of least squares) ap
peared to be about 68°, while the corresponding inclination in Ire
land amounted to about 57° only. Professor Lloyd then proceeded

to state his conviction, that (owing to certain peculiar imperfections
of the dipping needle) differences of dip at different stations could be
ascertained with much greater accuracy than the absolute dips them
selves ; and consequently that the mean direction of the isoclinal

lines, which depended on these differences only, could be determiued
with more certainty than their absolute position. In reference to
this latter point Mr. Fox conceived that his observations warranted
him in concluding that there existed a dislocation of the lines of equal
dip in passing from England to Ireland. It remained still, however,
to be examined whether the results of observation may not be ade

quately represented by a bending of the lines, such as that already
noticed ; and Mr. Lloyd expressed his hope of obtaining a sufficient
number of observations in other parts of England to throw light

upon this curious question.

               On the Aurora Borealis. By Wm. Herapath.

   From observations made on the 1 8th November, 1835, the author
was led to entertain a different opinion as to the cause and condition
of this meteor from that which ascribes it to electrical currents tra
versing the aerial or setherial spaces at great heights above the earth's
surface.

   The phenomena attending the aurora in question were connected
with the appearance and movement of clouds, and appeared to the
author to originate in the passage of electricity from a charged cloud
in the act of resolving in air which can receive the resulting water
but not the electrical fluid, which consequently while dispersing
through a rare atmosphere becomes visible to the eye.

  On the Aurora Borealis of 1 Ith August, 1836. By Dr. Traill

   In this aurora a luminous arch, 12° to 15° broad, passed from Co
rona Borealis through Ursa Major to Auriga, and consisted of short
perpendicular cirri or rays, exhibiting the usual fitful horizontal
movement. Just below it was a dark cloud-like arched mass, whose
upper limb broke into short perpendicular dark cirri, more stationary
than the luminous cirri above. Later in the evening a column of
amethystine light shot up in the E.N.E., relieved on a dark back
ground, tinged of a faint violet colour. About midnight the arched
                    TRANSACTIONS OP THE SECTIONS.                                                       33

been of an intense yellow dashed with green, became diffused, and
threw off luminous portions which passed the zenith.

Notice     of   an  Instrument to observe minute Changes                of      Terrestrial

                        Magnetism. By W. Ettrick.

    The needle, suspended in a glass case by a single fibre or hair,
bears a graduated card, which is observed by a telescope properly
adjusted at right angles to its surface.

Notice of a new Rubber for an Electrical Machine. By W. Ettrick.

On a new   Method      oMf .IDnv.e,stiMga.tRin.gI.    the   Specific Heats of Gases.                    By
   James                                                   Professor of Chemistry in
           Apjohn,                                  A.,                                                 the

Royal College of Surgeons, Ireland.
In the commencement of this communication, which was made orally
in the Physical Section, Dr. Apjohn drew attention to some prior re
searches of his on the same subject, which he had explained at the
meeting of the British Association held in Dublin. Having established
(see Notices of Communications made at the Dublin Meeting, p. 27.)
                                   --x 30 includes
that the formula"/" --' f  «                                         the solution of the                well-
                                   follows that a                                                       X --30 ,
known dew-point problem,   it                                        =  (/'--/'')  x                 e

                                                                                                  73-7

which expression, when the air is perfectly dry, or, what amounts to

if/the same, when/'=                  =                          --
                       0, becomes  a                   -----  x      .  Hence,                    and d be
                                                       48 d      p
                                                                           .
determined by observation, that is, if the temperature of air t, and
the stationary temperature of a wet thermometer immersed in the
same medium, first brought to a state of perfect desiccation, be ob
served, the specific heat of air may be calculated. This formula also,
as is obvious, is equally true of the other gases, that is, when applied
to similar observations made upon them, it will give their relative
specific heats under equal volumes ; and such results, it is scarcely
necessary to say, when divided by the specific gravities, will give the
specific heats under equal weights. Such, as has been already fully
explained, was the principle of the method which he had first adopted.
The numbers, however, in the last column of the table published by
the British Association, (see Notices of Communications made at the
Dublin Meeting, p. 32,) are not, as they are represented to be, the
specific heats of equal weights, but of equal volumes, for the divi
sion by the specific gravities had, through hurry, been omitted. Nor

           /',
                   by
                                                                         e

                                                            p

                                                                                       :

                                                                       d
                                                                                     is

                                                                                             I",
·/" and/ are the respective forces of vapour at the dew-point and atf', the
stationary temperature of the wet thermometer                           the depression of tem
                                                           the caloric of elasticity of aqueous
perature shown         the latter instrument,

vapour at  a the specific heat of air,                        the existing, and 30 the mean

pressure.  v.-- 1836.                               n

   vol.
3* SIXTH REPORT -- 1836.

do the numbers in question correctly represent the specific heats of
the different gases under equal volumes, as given by his experiments ;
for being unaware of the omission just alluded to, he had erroneously
applied to his direct results the correction for the per centage of air as
certained by analysis to be present in each gas. The formula, in fact,
for this correction was contrived for the case of specific heats under
equal weights, instead of, as it should have been, that of specific heats
under equal volumes. When this correction is properly made, the ori
ginal numbers undergo material modification, as may be seen by in
spection of the following table. The original numbers are in column

    and the corrected ones in column 3.
a '2,
                                          1. 2.                                              3.
  A
             ;Air                         .                                       1-0000   1000
            Nitrogen                                                                ·9887
                 a it                                                                        ·954
            Hydrogen                                                              1-8948
                                 aCarbonic Oxide                                  1-0808   1-479
                                                                               .           1037
            Carbonic Acid .                                                       10916    1-066
                                                                             aNitrous Oxide .1-16521163

                                                                       itUpon these results, Dr. Apjohn stated that he never placed much
                                                                                itreliance. The apparatus employed was very imperfect, particulaily in
not permitting more than a single experiment with the same quantity
of gas and he also saw reason to doubt that he had, in every instance,
by means of accomplished perfect desiccation. Under these circum

stances he had always contemplated returning to the investigation,

and towards the latter end of last July he did, in fact, commence

fresh series of experiments, which were conducted on the following

plan.
        pair of copper gasometers with glass bells, such as are usually

employed by chemical lecturers, were charged with a proper quantity
of oil of vitriol instead of water, and placed upon a table, at the di
stance of three feet from each other, the brass rods attached to the bells

being suspended to the extremities of stout cord passing over a pair
of runners fixed in the ceiling of the laboratory. Between the lower
            couple of glass tubes were interposed, connected to the
stop-cocks
stop-cocks by caoutchouc collars, and fitting at their other extremities
to each other by tight ground joint. In the longer of these tubes the
dry thermometer was permanently placed, and into also the wet one
was introduced previous to the commencement of on experiment.

Matters   obcecuinpgie, d,we--fsihrsatll  wistuhppaotmseo, spthheursicapl reapiar,re--d,deapnridvedtheby  unimmer-
sed bell                                                                                                  the oil of

vitriol of its moisture, pressure was made upon by an assistant so as to
force its contents in a rapid current into the second bell, through the
tube containing the wet and dry thermometers. During this operation
TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                                   85

the observer kept his eye. armed with a lens, steadily fixed on the ther
mometers, and registered the indications of both as soon as the wet one
became perfectly stationary. The height of the barometer being now
taken, the necessary data were obtained for calculating from the hy-

grometric formula/"=/'          x *-> the elastic force of the vapour

still existing in the air of the gasometer. The atmospheric air being
now replaced by some one of the gases, and this being left sufficiently
long in contact with the oil of vitriol, the manipulations and ob
servations just detailed were repeated. This same experiment, with ,
sufficient intervals to allow in each instance of maximum desiccation,
was again and again performed ; and it having been ascertained, after
a considerable number of repetitions, that the results were uniform

and consistent, and that they might therefore be relied upon, the
mean of all the observations was taken, and from this the specific heat
(/-/'x-j-.xof the gas deduced by means of the formula a =
                                                             e  --30      ,
                                                                p
/"that value being assigned to                            48 a

                                which resulted from the preliminary
experiment on atmospherical air. The analysis of the gas was next
very carefully performed, and it having been ascertained that n volumes,
ex. gr., of atmospherical air per cent, were present, the proper cor

rection was a*pvplied by3 the formula a'= a T+--100----n , in which c =-267

is the specific heat of air, a' the true specific heat of the gas, and a the
specific heat of mixture of gas and air, as previously determined. Such
was the course pursued in the case of each of the gases submitted to
experiment, and the following are the final results. The numbers
represent the specific heats of equal volumes, and, to facilitate com
parison, the determinations of Dulong, and those also of De La Roche
and Berard, are included in the table.

                                J. A.    Dulong.  De La Roche
                                                         und

                                                      Berard.

Atmospheric Air                 1.000    1000     1000
Nitrogen                        1-048    1-000    1006

Oxygen . . ..                     ·808   1-000      ·976
Hydrogen . .                    1-459               903
                                         rooo
Carbonic Acid .                 1-195             1-258
Carbonic Oxide                    ·99 6  1172     1-034
                                         1000
Nitrous Oxide .                 1-193             1-350
                                         1159

    Having stated his numerical results, and given an outline of the
method of investigation which conducted to them. Dr. Apjohn con-

                                                          d2

                                                                              /
36 SIXTH REPORT -- 1836.

eluded by giving the leading conclusions which he conceives himself
justified in deducing from his researches. They are as follows :

    1 . That the law so much insisted upon in modern times by Hay-
crapt, Marcet, and De La Rive, and others, that the simple gases have
under equal volumes the same specific heat, is not the law of nature.

    2. That the more limited proposition enunciated by Dulong, that
the simple gases have under a given volume the same specific heat,
does not appear true in a single instance, and is altogether at variance
with his (Dr. A.'s) result for hydrogen.

   3. That the numbers at which he (Dr. A.) has arrived, correspond
tolerably well with those of De la Roche and Berard except in the
case of hydrogen.

    4. That there does not appear to be any simple relation between the
specific heats of the gases and their specific gravities or atomic
weights, and that philosophers in searching for such are probably
pursuing a chimara.

   A paper on the above subject by Dr. Apjohn will shortly appear in
the Transactions of the Royal Irish Academy.

On the Impermeability  of  Water to Radiant  Heat.     By the Rev. B.

                           Powell, F.R.S.

    On the Vibration of Bells. By R. Addams.

    On an Improved Ear-trumpet. By Charles J. B. Williams,

                              M.D., F.R.S., &c.

    Having lately had occasion to examine the ear-trumpets in common
use, Dr. W. found them all more or less fault}', especially in that they

produce confusing noises, like the roaring in large shells, which render
indistinct the articulate sounds which they are intended to convey. On
further examination, these disturbing noises were found to consist in :
   1 . An exaggeration of all the foreign sounds which may happen to
accompany the voice, such as the rustling of clothes, reverberations in
the room, the rolling of carriages out of doors, &c. This defect is ma
nifestly as inseparable from all instruments which augment sound, as

an inefficiency to render distinct an object in a mist is from telescopes.

   2. A sound dependent on the longitudinal vibrations proper to the
column of air contained in the tube. This sound is the note of the

instrument as a tube closed at one end, and is therefore deep according
to  its length and the narrowness of its
                                          open end.
    3. A sound more or less tinkling or   metallic in  character,  resulting

from the transverse vibrations which repeated reflections of sound gene
rate within hollow bodies, and which constitutes the tinkling note
produced in the interior of bottles, bladders, and other hollow objects.
This sound exists especially in those instruments in which sound is

concentrated by repeated reflection from curvilinear surfaces.
TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.  37

    Dr. Williams first endeavoured to diminish these disturbing sounds
by lateral apertures, which would give exit to the transverse vibra
tions ; but although this plan succeeded to a certain degree, it caused
a great loss in the concentrating power of the instrument, the sides of
which were no longer uniformly reflective. After many other trials,
Dr. W. succeeded in avoiding the above-named defects to a great
extent, by combining in an instrument great concentrating power with
the greatest simplicity of construction. A conical tube 12 or 15 inches
long, its sides forming an angle of 25°, its apex terminating in a short,
slightly curved tube adapted to the ear, and its base or open end
forming an elliptic aperture, the plane of which forms an angle of about
45° with the axis of the cone, was found to answer best. Such an
instrument receives the direct waves of sound in so large a body at its
open end, and concentrates them to its narrow .end by so few reflec
tions, that the original sound is conveyed, simple and distinct, unmo

dified by aberrant vibrations, and greatly increased in intensity. It is
found to be nearly free from the roar ; and it increases the intensity of

articulate sounds -to such a degree, that words spoken only just above
a whisper, could by its aid be distinctly heard at a distance of 50 yards

during the daytime, and at a much greater distance at night. It

rendered the tickings of a watch audible at more than three times the
distance at which they could be heard with the unassisted ear.

    This instrument may be made of tin plate or other light metal, or,
what is better, fine card-board. For the sake of portability, it may
be constructed of oiled or gummed silk, folding and unfolding in the
manner of an umbrella.

 On the higher Orders of Grecian Music. By Samuel Rootsey, M.D.

    That the ancients admitted many primes into their expressions of
musical intervals is known to the learned, but (the author believes),
exclusively from the writings of Ptolemy as edited by Dr. Wallis.

    The only three simple and prime ratios admitted by the moderns, are

the octave 1 : 2, the fifth 2 : 3, and the major third 4:5. Those systems
of music of which these form the three bases; the author calls the three

lowest orders of music, using this term order in the general sense of
mathematicians ; the first being that in which the only perfect interval
is the octave, the second having the fifths perfect, and the third being
our ordinary music as improved by the labours of Smith, Liston, Farcy,
Chladni, and others.

    The number of small intervals, called semitones, brought into use by
the adoption of these bases, is seven.

    Besides the above semitones, the ancients used many others which
Dr. Burney believes are, to modern ears, perfectly intolerable. Some
of those notes by which these Greek intervals are formed are frequently
heard upon certain instruments, such as the trumpet; but having a most
peculiar character, and differing so widely from the notes of the piano
88 SIXTH UKPORT 1836.

forte and organ as now tuned, they are altogether rejected, and pro
nounced discordant, although in fact they would occasion no beating in
an organ perfectly tuned.

  The object of this paper was to showthat they are improperly discarded,
and that as they characterize the sweetest concords, as they are there
fore required by the ear, and are constantly practised by the best voices,
it is worth while to inquire more into the consequence of adopting them
wherever it is possible, and of teaching their extensive use in every
school of Music,

    Plutarch, Boethius, and all the authors whose writings are collected

by Meibomius, viz., Aristoxenus, Euclid (Introductio Harmonica), Ni-

comachus, Alypius, Gaudentius, Bacchius, Aristides, Quintilianus, and
Martianus Capella, explain none of these higher orders, but Ptolemy in
his Harmonics proves that Archytas, Eratosthenes, and Didymus, as
well as himself, used them continually.

   Far from agreeing with Dr. Burney that two tones and two semitones
are all that are useful, and that eleven ancient intervals are impracticable.
Dr. Rootsey endeavoured to show that 30 intervals, namely 8 tones and
22 semitones, are required by a modern ear, and are daily practised on
the voice and violin ; they ought therefore to be universally understood
and appreciated by all contrapuntists and professors of the science of

music.

         On Mnemonical Logarithms. By Samuel Rootsey, M.D.
    In this communication the author described and exemplified the use
of certain low numbers, which serve to compare the simpler ratios with
sufficient accuracy for many purposes, and thus, when fixed in the
memory, to supply occasionally the want of a table of logarithms.

Experiments on the Weight, Height, and Strength of Men at different
                              Ages. By Professor Forbes.

These experiments, on above 800 individuals, students in the Uni
versity of Edinburgh, were entirely made personally by the author, with
a view to the extension of M. Quetelet's general results and to the
comparison of the physical development of different nations. Of the
persons measured,   (who were chiefly between the ages   of 15 and 25.)
nearly two thirds  were natives of Scotland, and in the  calculation of
averages these were kept apart, as were the English and Irish. The

leading results were these :
   1 . The form of the curves indicating the law of development 'with

age, remarkably coincide with those of M. Quetelet. The attainment
of full growth seems (as in his experiments) to be scarcely complete
even at the age of 25.

   2. The development of the Scotch in the particulars of weight, height,
                       TRAIXSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                         39

and strength seems much greater than that of the Belgians (taken from
persons of a similar class).
3. So far as the limited results for the English and Irish are worthy
of confidence, (and they agree in all the three particulars just specified,)
BtheelgiEanngsl,i--sh    are less   developed than   the  Scotch,  but        than the
                       the Irish   more developed   than  either.       more

4. The mean weight, height, and strength of a Scotchman 25 years
of age appears to be (from above 500 experiments used in approxi
mating to the curve), weight 152'51bs., height 69-3 inches, strength of
muscles of the back by Regnier's dynamometer 4201bs.

   The Rev. W. Wheweli gave a further account of his Anemometer,

previously exhibited and described by him, the instrument being now

completed and put in operation. It consists of a small wind wheel, (like

a windmill with eight sails,) which is kept towards the wind by a vane.
The rapid rotation of the wheel is, by a train of toothed wheels and
screws, converted into a slow vertical motion, which carries a pencil
downwards, tracing a line on the surface of a vertical cylinder, having
the axis of the vane for its axis. The extent of vertical motion shows
the amount of the wind, and the part of the circumference of the cy
linder on which the trace lies, shows the direction.

   The observation is made by clamping the vane, so that a vertical scale
(of tenths of an inch) coincides with the mean direction of the trace ;
the amount of wind may then be read off on the scale, and the direction

on a circle of the cylinder.
   Mr. Whewell proposed that the wind should be registered by writing

the directions of the compass which it successively assumed, and beneath
each direction the amount of wind in that direction shown by the scale.
Thus :

   The observations in July, 1836, were

                       ruly 1.     S.E.             S.E. by E.     S.S.E.

                                   12                       4          4

                       -- 2.       S.W.              S. by E.

                       -6                                   8
                                   W.S.W.
                           £} 28

                       -- 5. S.E. by S.

                                   22

                       -- C. S.E. by E.

                                   10

    But the common notation for the points of the compass is incon
venient, from its not showing at once the relation between the different
directions. Mr. Whewell proposes the following notation :
          SIXTH RKrORT -- 1836.
/ --\ /40
            N.N.E.E.B.E.8. 8.W.  W.  N.W.  N.
     \
                \

   It was also proposed that the wind thus registered should be denoted
in another manner, for the purpose of showing the combined result of
the wind of a considerable period, as a year. This is to be done by be

ginning from a point in a plane (as a sheet of paper) on which the di
rections of the compass are supposed to be represented ; then, drawing
a line in the direction of the first wind, and of a length proportional to
the quantity of wind ; from the extremity of this line,' drawing another
in the direction of this wind and proportional to its quantity ; from the
extremity of this another, and so on. The broken line thus obtained
will represent the course of the wind for the whole time.

   If the course of the wind be thus represented for a year, and then for

another year, and so on, there will be a general resemblance among the
lines so drawn, because we have, in general, the same winds at the
same seasons. The curve line which is the mean of all these lines, or
from which they may all be considered as slight deviations, may be
called the annual type of the wind. It is very different in different places,
as has been observed by writers on meteorology (KSmtz and others).
But there has hitherto been no means of obtaining this course with any
degree of correctness, for want of an instrument which could register
at the same time the direction and amount of the wind. By means of
the present instrument, it is conceived that this difficulty is, in a great

measure, overcome.

    One of Mr. Whewell's anemometers is erected at Cambridge, and
will be observed regularly. Another will be erected at York, and another
at Plymouth ; and the observations will be communicated to the ensuing
Meetings of the Association.

   It is very desirable that instruments of the same construction, and

the same scale, should be erected and observed at other places. Mr.
Whewell offers all the assistance in his power to those who arc willing
to construct and employ this instrument.
                  TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                                         41

 On the Connexion of the Weather with the Tide. By G. Webb Hall.

   From long observations in the vicinity of Bristol, the author has in
ferred the following laws of phenomena there occurring.

    1 . The barometer generally undulates at times corresponding with
the changes of the moon, and more frequently sinks than rises.

    2. The weather is generally unsettled at these periods, continuing
so for about two days ; high winds also prevail.

    3. The weather, having become determinate after such unsettled state,
retains the character which it assumes till the next change of the moon.

    4. These variations are found to obtain, not only at the full and new
moon, but at the quarters.

    5. The period from whence the weather assumes a determinate cha
racter is coincident with the occurrence of spring and neap tides.

On Lucas s Method of Printing for the Blind. By Rev. L. Cabpenteb*.

J.On the Ratio                         Rouf sFslueidlls,
              of  the  Resistance                         to the  Velocity  of  Waves.  By
                                   S.
                                                          Esq.\

Calculus of Principal Relations. By Professor Sir W. R. Hamilton.

The method of principal relations is an extension of that mode of
analysis which Sir William Hamilton has applied before to the sciences
of optics and dynamics ; its nature and spirit may be understood from

the following sketch.
   Let xt, x,, . . xn be any number n of functions of anyone independ
ent variable s, with which they are connected by any one given differ
ential equation of the first order, but not of the first degree,
              o=f(s,xi,..x,,,ds,dxl,..dxn),
                                                                                 (1)
and also by n -- 1, other differential equations, of the second order, to
/ (*,)-* _ /'which the calculus of variations conducts, as supplementary
equation (1), and which may be thus denoted :                                   to the given

                  /'(<**,)             = (*.) ~ df'(dx,,) .

Let, also, n,, . . an be the n initial values of the » functions jr,, . . xn,
and let a\, . . a'n be the n initial values of their n derived functions or

differential  coefficients  x'.  =-- --',  ..  *',, =     --- ",  corresponding  to any
                                                          ds
                                       as

assumed initial value a of the independent variable x. If we could in
tegrate the system of the n differential equations (1) and (2), we should
thereby obtain n expressions for the n functions xlt . . x,,, of the forms

   * In consequence of the request made to the Rev. William Taylor to complete a Ge
neral Report on the processes of Printing for the Blind, it has been deemed unneces
sary to give an unconnected abstract of Mr. Lucas's ingenious researches.

  f The Author is engaged in special researches to complete his views on the subject of

waves, at the request of the Association.
42 SIXTH REPORT -- 1836.

           *> = (*. a. «i. · · «.. «'i. "'.).?, <Pi
                                                       ·
                                                                                                  (3)
                                                           ;J
                                                                        ^ "I
           *. = (*. a, a,, . a,, o',, . . a',)
and, by the help of the initial equation analogous to (1), might then
                                 and deduce a relation of
eliminate  a',,  .'.=a',,,       (». »n · *.. «. «i.  o,,)                        the  form

        a                                              it                                         (4)
                     o                                          ·
                             ip                                                ;
that is, relation between the initial and final values of the 4- con
                                                                                                  n»
                                                                                                            1

                                                                                                             if
nected variables «,*,,.. jt,,. Reciprocally, the author has found that
this one relation (4) were known, would be possible thence to deduce
expressions for the sought integrals (3) of the system of the differenn
tial equations (1) and (2), or for the » sought relations between
s, *,, . . *,, and a, a,, . . an, a',, . . o',, however large the number n may
be in such a manner that all these many relations (3) are implicitly
    ;

contained in the one relation (4), which latter relation the author pro
poses to call on this account                                                                     or simply,
the principal relation, of                       the jrrincipal  integral              relation,
                                               the problem.
    /' _/'fW _ _/'For he has found that the n following equations hold good,
              (ds)               (dx.) "                  (dxn)                                   ()
           ,//(*)                                      V-'(A)
                                                                 n "1J
which may be put under the forms                                      '
           °i =
                            (a> s> *i> · · ** »/ · · *'.)»
                   sf
           a. = <P«(a. s» *u ..*,,*x,\,.....*x.)'.,),ji
and are evidently transformations of the                                               sought integrals (3)-
And with respect to the mode in which, without previously effectingip it
the integrations (3),
                                  a is       possible to determine the principal relation

                                            .
(4), or the principal function which introduces, when                                             conceived
                   as follows,                         it                                    it
                     = (x,,                                                                      is
                                                            .                                          (
                                                                               <p
to  be  resolved,                            for the originally independent                           'variable s,

                                               . x,, a, a,, a,,),                      (7)
the author remarks that partial differential equation of the first order
may be assigned, which this principal function must satisfy, and also
an initial condition adapted to remove the arbitrariness which otherwise
would remain. In fact the equations (5) may be thus written,
                                                         ds
                                               "                                                  ._.
                                                       JrfT, ~Jx,,'
                   8

                     d
                       s
                                 s8

                                                         8
                                                                             8

                                                                 s
                   TIii ~ ¥7'
in which

        877,= Tjd'^n, = *w'                                                                       (9)

and since, by (1), there subsists known relation of the form
                                               o a'                                               ,.,,.
                                                             ,Sd--s
                                                                  b                               (10)
                                                       =rd-j x,,
                                                                             .
           0=Fe(-S/,,, X,,u .. X- n.j-ddTxs-,

the following relation also must hold good,

           ·       = *(#.#,,..«.,*·...{!,                                                         (ll)
                                                   x, 8xn
                                               <j>
                                                    S
that is, the principal function must satisfy the following partial differ

ential equation of the first order,
              TRANSACTIONS OP THK SECTIONS.                                                                                                                      43

     0=F
it                       x, . . X.,                                   (x,), . .  (x,,))                                                (12)
                                                                                                                                       (13)
        o
              s

      af
                          (p,
                  <p f
                       f
                                                                                                                   ;
    must also satisfy the following initial condition,

     r= Urn.  (a, a,, . a,,  -- a, x, -- a,, . . x,, -- a,).

         =

twhheSicuMhcehtShiaorrdeWotihflleiPamrmionscHtipaemasslielRtnoetinlaaltiohpnarssin, pcriaponpledossoeodffwtthohiecdhen,seipwgenramhtaeeptshb,oydtthhiene  analysis
type the formula                                                                                                                                          name of
     is
                                                                                                                                                          simplest
                                                S
                                                                   S
                            dx x                                                                                                       v

                                                                                                                                         '

to be interpreted like the equations                                   (8).              to  illustrate the meaning
   The simplest example which can                                     be given,              that in which the dif
and application of these principles, is, perhaps,
ferential equations are

and

                            dx, 1x7'                                                                                                   it (
                                                                                                                                               >
    Here, ordinary integration gives

     x, = a,                -- a), x,, = at + a\ --
     s                                                                           (s          a)                                        (3)'
          +                                                                          (s
               a\                                                                               ;

and consequently conducts to the following relation,$                                                                 (in this case the
- - -principal one,)                                                                                                             (4)'
         »=(*i- «i)a + (*,s (s                                                                                                   (7)'
                                                                      a,y                a)*,

- -or
             = a+ V (x, a,)* (xa aj\
                                     +
because, by (1)', we have                 +
                             «',» «V m
                                                                           1
                                                                              ;

it  _enables us therefore to verify the relations (8), or (14), for                                                                                       gives

                            x, -- a, dx,                                         Sds

                      Sx, -- ds Sdx,'
                             il 8
and, in like manner,                 a
                                               oS
                                     -- ds

                             OX) dxa

    Reciprocally, in this example, the following known relation, deduced
from (1)',

          «(/£)·+<*£)·-·

would have given, by the principles of the new method, this partial dif
ferential equation of the first order,
44 SIXTH REPORT -- 1836.

which might have been used, in conjunction with the initial condition

     o = =a{(^)'+(^);-'> <>»·
to determine the form (7)' of the principal function s ; and thence might
have been deduced, by the same new principles, the ordinary integrals

(3)', under the forms     -- s), a, = xt + «', -- *).

          a, = x, +
            ;                              it                                               (6)'

                  a',                          is
                      (a                             (a
In so simple an instance as this, there would be no advantage in using
the new method but in a great variety of questions, including all thosea
of mathematical optics, and mathematical dynamics, (at least, as those
sciences have been treated by the author of this communication,) and
in general all the problems in which
                                           required to integrate those
systems of ordinary differential equations (whether of the second or
of a higher order) to which the calculus of variations conducts, the
method of principal relations assigns immediately                                           system of finite
expressions for the integrals of the proposed equations, an object
which can only very rarely be attained by any of the methods known
            seems, for example, to be impossible, by any other method,
before.     It

                  ;
                                        a
to express rigorously, in finite terms, the integrals of the differential
equations of motion of system of many points, attracting or repelling
one another which yet was easily accomplished by particular appli
                                                                            a
                                                                                         a
cation of the general principles that have been here explained*. The
author hopes to present these principles in still more general form

hereafter.

                                   CHEMISTRY.
On the Chemical Nomenclature of Berzelius. By R. Hare, M.D., Pro

           fessor of Chemistry in the University of Pennsylvania.
    Berzelius has divided those bodies which by union with a radical
produce salts, and those which are capable of entering into saline com
binations both as acids and bases, into two classes, designated as Halo
gen and Amphigen. Dr. Hare stated his objections to this classification,
remarking especially on the ambiguity of the terms salts, acids, and
bases. He would distinguish all electro- negative compounds by sub
joining the termination acid, and all electro-positive compounds, formed
either by halogen or amphigen bodies, by subjoining the termination base,
and confine the use of the termination ide to those compounds of which
the electrical habitudes are indeterminate he proposed to substitute
the terms chlorohydric, sulphohydric, &c, for hydrochloric and other
analogous words and on this point stated that the opinion of Berzelius
coincides with his own.

    ·See Philosophical Transactions for 1831 and 1833; also, Report of Edinburgh
Meeting of the British Assoeiation.
            ;
                                                                         :
TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.  45

On a Calorimotor for Igniting Gases in Eudiometrical Experiments, and
             Gunpowder in Rock-blasting. By R. Hare, M.D.

   This is a galvanic instrument of two pairs, for producing ignition at
a distance from the apparatus : when it is an object to produce ignition
at a greater distance, Dr. Hare resorts to analogous apparatus of larger
size and consisting of four pairs.

   By means of potassium ignited by this instrument, Dr. Hare has
been enabled extemporaneously to evolve silicium or boron from fluo-si-
licic or fluo-boric acid gas.

    He has also been enabled to explode gunpowder at a great distance.
In one instance, twelve charges had been exploded at 150 feet from the
calorimotor employed.

   A projector of the name of Shaw had attempted to effect the explo

sion of gunpowder by means of the Leyden jar, for the purpose of rock
blasting, but finding mechanical electricity too precarious, had applied
to Dr. Hare for means of rendering his process more certain, and this
had led to the following contrivance. Two iron wires of about the
size No. 40, and one of the finest kind were twisted together, and the
larger afterwards nipped, so as to leave a small portion of the fine wire

uncut between their nipped extremities. All the wires were secured

in a saw kerf in a piece of hard wood, having a small hole filled with a
fulminating powder, consisting of arsenic and chlorate of potash,
through which the fine wire passed. The powder was secured by paper
pasted on by means of gum arabic. One termination of the twisted
wire was soldered to a dish of tinned iron, by which the lower end of
a tube of the same material was closed. The tube being then filled
with gunpowder was closed by a cock, through which the upper end
of the twisted wire was made to pass. To the outside of the tin tube
a strip of metal or a wire was soldered. By connecting these wires
with the poles of a calorimotor, ignition of the gunpowder in the tube
might be effected at every distance, or in any situation, and as well
under water as above it.

    Many accidents had happened in the ordinary mode of blasting, from
causes which could not be operative in the use of the means above de
scribed. The principal source of danger is the liability of the gunpowder
to explode during the ramming of it into the perforated rock, or before
the workmen had time to get out of the way.

   In Dr. Hare's method, the gunpowder being inclosed in a metallic
tube previously to its introduction into a perforated rock, is not liable
to ignition from the process of ramming.

    Dr. Hare conceives that the intervention of the fulminating powder
would greatly accelerate the combustion, and of course increase the
force of the explosion.
46 SIXTH RErOHT -- 183G.

On the Aqueous SUdiiig-rod Hydrogen Eudiometer. By R. Hare, M.D.
    In this instrument measurements are effected by the ingress or re

gress of a graduated rod pressing air-tight through a collar of leather
into a copper tube, at the extremity of which a glass receiver is situated.
This receiver terminates in an apex, with a capillary opening, which is
closed by a valve at the end of a lever actuated by a spring, when the
effect of the latter is not counteracted by the hand. The cavity of the

instrument being filled with water, and being perfectly air-tight, if the

rod be withdrawn to any sensible extent, while the orifice at the apex
of the receiver is closed, a vacuum ensues ; but if that orifice be open
the resulting vacuity becomes filled with the air, or with any other gas
by which it may be surrounded.

   To analyse the air, it is only necessary to take into the receiver, in
the first instance, one hundred measures of that fluid, and then intro
ducing the apex into a bell glass containing hydrogen, to draw into the
receiver about fifty measures or more of this gas. By means of an arch
of platina wire within the receiver, so situated as to become the me
dium of a galvanic discharge, the gaseous mixture being inflamed, and
all the oxygen, with twice its bulk of the hydrogen, consequently con
densed, on introducing the instrument into water, so that the apex
may be just below the surface, the deficit produced by the combustion
is replaced by water ; and hence, on returning the rod carefully only
so far as to expel the residual gas, the number of graduations which
remain without the tube indicates the extent of the condensation. Of
this, one third is due to oxygen.

   Dr. Hare also exhibited some volumeters, or volume measures, by
which equal volumes of a gas may be taken with great accuracy.

   By means of one of these instruments a mixture of one part of hy
drogen and two of air being introduced into a bell over the pneumatic
trough, on taking into the eudiometer 150 measures, and proceeding as
already described, the same results may be obtained, and perhaps with

more accuracy.
    As the pressure of the spring upon the valve, through the medium

of the lever, is not sufficient to resist the force of the explosion, the in
strument is furnished with a kind of staple, moving on a hinge, and
furnished with a screw. By these means the valve is firmly held in its
place as long as is requisite, and afterwards easily released by relaxing
the pressure of the screw and moving the staple on its hinge, so as to
get it out of the way of the lever, of which the extremity bearing the
valve is then easily raised by the pressure of the hand.

   The average results of some hundreds of experiments performed by
Dr. Hare with various instruments, as well as with that above described,
would lead to the conclusion that the quantity of oxygen in 100 mea
sures of air is 20-^y.

   Dr. Hare also presented to the Members of the Chemical Section
printed copies of a series of essays, not yet published, on different
subjects of chemical and electrical science, and descriptive of various
improvements in philosophical apparatus.
TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                                                                     47

Electrical Experiments. By Andrew Crossb, Esq.

Mr. Crosse gave an account of some experiments which he had made
on the effect of long-continued galvanic action of low intensity in

forming crystals and other substances analogous to natural minerals.

At the time when he first commenced these experiments he had not
heard of those by which M. Becquerel had previously arrived at similar
results. A few weeks afterwards he was informed by a friend that that

philosopher had produced sulphurets of lead and silver by electric ac
tanidoodtns,,beb"eunttohseimseenanctbicoyonuMnttrh.oatCf rtoIhsaestet.menodde"ed   of conducting his experiments had
                                                                                  It is but due to myself," Mr. Crosse

                                                                                    the meeting at Bristol without the
least intention of intruding on the notice of the Association, well know
ing how incomplete my experiments                                                         ; and had it not been for the
                                                                                  were
advice of some friends whom I met                                                 there,  I should not have presumed
to offer any communication till I had gone further into the matter."
Mr. Crosse stated that by passing a galvanic current from batteries
with various combinations of plates excited by water only, through so
lutions of carbonate of lime, he obtained rhomboidal crystals of that
substance deposited round the negative pole. Having in one of these ex
periments kept a piece of scouring brick moistened with the solution for
four or five months, at the expiration of that time he found very fine
prismatic crystals (which he took for arragonite) deposited on that part
of the brick which lay contiguous to, without actually touching, the
positive pole, whilst what he considered as common carbonate of lime
was confined to the negative pole. In a similar experiment made on
fluo-silicic acid, after a deposit of lead at the negative pole, minute
crystals, which he considered as siliceous, made their appearance at the
extremity of the deposit of lead, and, on the removal of the lead, at the
positive pole : a crystal which was a transparent hexahedral prism ter
minated with a similar pyramid, but which however was too soft to
scratch glass, was removed at the end of two or three months from the
bottom of the piece of brick ; a second well-formed crystal, measuring
^T'ff of an inch in length                                                                put in
                                                                                          Crosse
for one or two months,
by in breadth, after being                                                                        a dry place
scratched glass readily. Mr.                                                                      made simi

lar experiments on solutions of silicate of potash and obtained imperfect
hexahedral crystallizations, which he judged to be siliceous, and in some
instances chalcedonic deposits. The following is a list of mineral sub
stances which he considered himself to have formed by electrical action
in addition to those above-mentioned : -- Red oxide of copper in octa
hedrons opake and transparent, crystals of copper and silver in cubes
and octahedrons, crystallized arseniate and carbonate of copper, phos
phate and grey sulphuret of ditto, sulphuret of silver, crystallized
carbonate of lead, yellow oxide of lead, mammillated carbonate of lime,
oxide of lime, mammillated black oxide of iron, sulphuret of iron, sul

phuret of antimony (Kermes mineral), crystallized sulphur.
   Between three and four years ago Mr. Crosse made a set of experi

ments on the voltaic battery, and found the power to be considerably
increased when each copper plate of the one pair was brought into all
48 SIXTH REPORT. 183G.
but contact with the zinc plate of the other pair, but that the insulation
of each separate pair of plates was of still greater efficacy. He put
together 1200 pairs of zinc and copper cylinders on this plan, filled
with water alone, and found the effects as follow : the average size of
the cylinder being about equal to a four-inch plate, four pairs com
municate a charge to an electrical battery sufficient to cause iron wire
barely to scintillate, and will just decompose water; 100 pairs cause
the gold leaves of an electrometer to diverge £ of an inch ; 200 pairs
open the same § of an inch ; 300 pairs cause the same to strike their
sides, and fire gunpowder placed loosely on a brass plate, the opposite
poles being connected with an electrical battery ; 500 pairs give a smart
shock, fire gunpowder readily, give a visible stream of fire to the dry
fingers, and cauterize the skin as though with a red-hot wire ; 1 200 pairs
being connected with an electrical battery fuze the point of a penknife,
deflagrate brilliantly metallic leaves, tin-foil, and even stout silver
sheeting, &c, &c. Mr. Crosse has used a battery of this kind for
eighteen months without any sensible diminution of power. These bat
teries are well calculated for electrical crystallization, and from ten to
fifty pairs of insulated cylinders Mr. Crosse thinks would answer every
purpose of that sort.

   Another subject noticed by Mr. Crosse was atmospheric electricity ;
he has for many years paid considerable attention to this part of the
science, and taken great pains in extending on lofty poles and insulating
with all possible care a copper wire yy of an inch diameter and 300
feet long. The experiments made with this resemble in general those
made on a smaller scale by other experimenters. Mr. Crosse considers
a thunder cloud to be divided into zones of alternate positive and nega
tive electricity. It appears to him that a nucleus is first formed of one
electricity, then a layer or zone of the opposite, and so on weaker and
weaker to the circumference. There are occasionally electric fogs nearly
as powerful as a small thunder cloud. Mr. Crosse has known during five
hours a stream of alternate positive and negative electricity pour from the
atmospherical conductor during a fog, and driving rain sufficient to fuze
a considerable length of strong wire. These electrical fogs appear to be
composed of alternate positive and negative columns.

Remarks  on the Results of some  EBxyperHimbennrtys   on the Phosplutle and Pyro
           phosphate of Soda.                        Hough Watson.

   Mr. Watson's attention having been drawn to the discordant state
ments given by different authors of the proportions of acid and base in
the salt called phosphate of soda, viz., in the dry state, he was induced
to investigate the subject by experiment. On putting to the test the
experiment which Dr. Thomson gives, page 199, vol. i. First Prin
ciples of Chemistry, of mixing a solution of 7-5 grains of anhydrous
phosphate of soda with one of 20*75 grains of crystals of nitrate of lead,
the result was not an entire decomposition of each salt, but a little of
the nitrate of lead remained undecomposed.
TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                                              49

Having exposed a quantity of gradually dried phosphate of soda to a
bright red heat, he weighed out 30 grains while nearly red hot, dis
solved it in water, and added to it a solution                             of crystals
of nitrate of lead, -- proportions equivalent to             of 83 grains  Dr. Thom
                                                             those which

son used, and half the numbers which are generally used to indicate
the atomic weights. The mixture was well agitated ; a precipitate
of phosphate of lead formed, which was washed, dried, exposed to a
low red heat, and weighed ; the liquor from which it was separated gave
a precipitate of sulphate of lead by the addition of sulphate of potash.
The mean of four nearly agreeing experiments gave phosphate of lead
66-96 grains, and sulphate of lead 4'42 grains. Now 4-42 sulphate of
lead = 4-82 nitrate of lead ; and 83 -- 482 = 78- 18 nitrate of lead

spent in producing the precipitate of phosphate.
The acid in 78-18 nitrate of lead being capable of neutralizing 15-07
soda, and the liquor when freed from lead by sulphate of potash being
neutral to the litmus test, it follows that 30 grains of anhydrous pyro
phosphate of soda are constituted of 15-07 soda and 14-93 acid ; and

the atomic weight of soda being 32, that of the acid in pyrophosphate
of soda must be 31 '7.

One hundred grains of the crystals of the ordinary phospate of soda,
by being placed under the exhausted receiver of an air-pump with a ves
sel of sulphuric acid, are reduced to 39* 65 grains ; and the residue, by
exposure to a red heat, is reduced to 37' 1 grains. From this and the
result of the above-mentioned experiments Mr. Watson infers that the
quantity of soda in 100 grains of crystals of the ordinary phosphate is
18'63 grains, and that the quantity of acid is 18'47 grains.
   Mr. Watson having decomposed both the ordinary uncalcined phos
phate of soda and the pyrophosphate with lime water, found thatthe quan
tity of lime which sufficed to saturate a proportion of the latter was not
sufficient to saturate a corresponding proportion of the former. From
this and other circumstances of the analysis Mr. Watson is led to sus
pect that the phosphate of soda when dried as much as possible in the

exhausted receiver is rendered anhydrous, and that when afterwards
exposed to a red heat a partial decomposition of the acid takes place ;

and this opinion he thinks strengthened by the consideration that
though no gas, nor anything but water, can be collected in converting
the phosphate into pyrophosphate, a peculiar burnt smell is given out;

and if the calcination of the salt (it having been previously dried gra
dually) be effected in a glass tube, the salt may be observed to acquire
a carbonaceous tinge during the operation, which, however, vanishes
by a continuation or perhaps rather an increase of the heat. He
also adds, that though it has been asserted that a solution of the pyro-
salt becomes changed, by keeping, into the ordinary phosphate, such
has not been the case with a solution which he has kept from the 1 4th
December, 1835, till now, in order to prove the fact ; for it still conti
nues to give a precipitate as perfectly white with nitrate of silver as it
did when newly prepared.
   Mr. Watson adds that there is a peculiar difference in appearance

between the calcined precipitate obtained from the pyrophosphate and
limveowl.atve.r--, a1n8d3tCh.e calcined
                                         precipitate         obtained from the or.linary phos-

                                                          E

                                                                                                /"'"
50 SIXTH RKPORT. -- 183G.

phate and lime water. Both precipitates are white when dried as much
as possible at a low temperature ; but that from the pyrophosphate
becomes black if exposed to a red heat, while the other by the same

treatment retains its whiteness.
    When in the course of these experiments crystals were the subject of

operation, Mr. Watson took care to use such as were neither damp nor
effloresced. To manage this he powdered a quantity of large crystals,
and then intimately mixed them with so much water as rendered them
decidedly damp ; he then spread them very thinly over a flat surface in
a room where the force of vapour in the atmosphere was not so much as
0-15 of an inch of mercury less than it would have been if the atmo
sphere was saturated with vapour, and left them in that state until they
discontinued to lose weight, an atmosphere of this drying power being
incapable of depriving the salt of any of its water of crystallization.

Extracts from a Paper " on Important Facts obtained Mathematically from
wThheicohry,areemcobnrsaicdienrgedmaosstulotimf athteosfeacetxsp.e"rimBeyntTalnorMesAuSltsExinleyCh, eAm.iMstr.y,
Mr. Exley observed that his object was to place chemistry under the
domain of mathematical science, and to establish a new theory by

legitimate but easy calculations.
The principles of the theory are : 1 . That every atom of matter con.
sistsof an indefinitely extended sphere of force, varying inversely as the
square of the distance from the centre ; and that this force acts toward*
the centre and is called attraction at all distances except in a small
concentric sphere, in which it acts from the centre and is called re
pulsion.
2. That there is a difference in atoms arising from a difference in
their absolute forces, or in the radii of their spheres of repulsion, or in

both these.

   The attraction is the same as that of gravitation in the theory of
Newton or that of Boscovich ; but in both these theories, where gravita
tion ends a series of alternations of attraction and repulsion varying by
unknown laws commences; Newton closes with a solid, Boscovich with
a sphere of repulsion varying inversely as the distance. Mr. Exley con
siders that his theory differs in every particular from both these in the
spaces where chemistry and its connate sciences are concerned, and
does not like them launch into the regions of conjecture.
   The first principle, as far as regards the attraction, is really true in

nature ; nothing in physics is better established. It is equally certain
from pheenomena that there is some repulsion near the centre of atoms ;
the law of its variation has not been determined, but the order of na

ture, the inductive procedure, obliges us, in the absence of every con
tradictory phenomenon, to continue the law of gravitation. As well may
we contend that there is no force of gravitation in spaces where no
particular observaticns have
does not exist in the sphere  been made,     asintothseaylathwatofthfeorcseam--einfortchee
                              of repulsion,
quantity of force, there is no violation of the law of continuity ; the di
rection only changes per saltum, which is quite as easy to conceive as a
       TRANSACTIONS OF THE SUCTIONS.                                    ..I

change by continuous degrees, as Newton and Boscovich suppose, and
which breaks the continuity in the law of force.
The second principle is, the author thinks, as simple and as natural as
can well be conceived, and an evident result from phenomena and the
first principle.

  It was stated in a treatise lately published by the author, that nature
presents two classes of atoms, the one comprehending ponderable matter,
such as oxygen, carbon, &c, which adhering with great tenacity may be
called tenacious atoms (till a better name be found) . The other consists
of atoms which manifest their existence by motions and actions under a

form which has been called oethereal ; hence they may be denominated

rethereal atoms ; they comprehended the electric fluid, caloric, and light.
   In the same work the atoms of the electric fluid were considered as

having a much greater absolute force than those of caloric and light.
This has been confirmed by subsequent observations, entitling the elec
tric atoms to the rank of an intermediate class, so that we may distin
guish atoms into three classes, tenacious, electric, and sethereal, not dif
fering in nature but only by a marked difference in their absolute
force. Of the 1st and 3rd classes there are many sorts, but of the

electric fluid probably only one sort.
The weights of the other atoms used in this paper are taken from
Dr. Thompson's determinations.
                                        Respecting carbon, whose weight,
according to Dr. Thompson, is 12 (taking oxygen 16), and according

to Berzelius it is 12^,, the specific gravities are calculated on both sup
positions, and then compared with those found by experiment in the

following table :

Name.                   Atomic Sp. Or. by Sp. Or. by
                        Weight  cal.    exper.              Authority.

Carbonic Oxide... .     12      ·9721   ·9732 Thenard and Berzelius, mean,
Carbonic Acid                   ·9895            lst,-0011 in defect; 2nd,-0163 excess.
Light Carburetted       12*
                        12      1-5277 1-5213 Thenard and Gay Lussac, mean,
--Ether                         1-5451
                        12*                           1st, -0064 excess ; 2nd, -0238 excess.
L'aranuphthalinc . . .  12
                        121     '5555 ·5590 Dr. Thompson.
                                                      1st, -0035 defect; 2nd, "0138 excess.
                        12      ·5728

                        121     1-5972 1-6133 (jay Lussac.
                        12                            1st, 0161 defect; 2nd, 0186 excess.
                                1-6319
                        12*
                                1-9444 1-9100 Dr. Faraday.
                        12      19791
                                                      1st, '0344 excess ; 2nd, -0691 excess.
                        12*
                        12      2-5694 2-5S30 Gay Lussac and Desprez, mean.
                                2-6388
                        12*                           1st, -0136 defect ; 2nd, -0588 excess.
                        12
                                2-8472 2-8330 Saussure.
                        12*
                        12      2-8993                1st, -0142 excess; 2nd, 0663 excess.

                        12*     4-4444 4-5280 Dumas.
                        12
                                4-5312                1st, -0836 defect; 2nd, -0032 excess.
                        12*
                                6-6G66 6-741 Dumas.

                                69270                 1st, -0074 defect ; 2nd, -I860 excess.

                                4-7222 4-7070 Dumas.

                                4-8090                1st, -0348 defect; 2nd, -0420 exec??.

                                                                                              X
52 SIXTH REPORT -- 1836.

   The author  assigns  reasons for adopting  16 as  the  atomic  weight  of
oxygen, when   that of  hydrogen is taken =   1.
It is seen that the calculated specific gravity exceeds that found by
experimeut in three of the ten compounds even when carbon is 12 ; in
all cases there is an excess when 12^ is used; and except in naphthaline
the defect is always much less than the excess, which gives the prefer
ence to 1 2 for the atomic weight of carbon.
The author next proceeds to deduce from the theory important facts
which are already known to chemists as ultimate results of their expe
riments. These are embodied in eight propositions with corollaries, of
which the last is here given.
Prop. 8. Taking each elementary atom as representative of a volume,
then in all strictly chemical combinations, that is, whenever there is a
condensation, the resulting volume is always, without exception, either
one or two volumes exactly. Since after combination the volume is
diminished, the centre of some atom, or those of several atoms, have

penetrated the atmospherule of some other (prop. 3 and cors.)
    1 . When the atmospherule of one atom or single group is penetrated

by the centres of all the others, the result is a single group, (def. 1 .) and
consequently (prop. 3, cor. 1 ) the result will be one volume exactly.

    2. When the atmospherule is not penetrated by all the centres of
the others, then one or more of the atoms will be brought by their mu
tual actions to the interval between the two remaining atoms, or single
groups, which combine, and thus situated, will (prop. 3, cor. 3) supply
the effect of the sethereal matter, which it displaces ; hence the whole
will form a double group, and (same cor.) will become two volumes
exactly.

    3. When one atom or single group combines with a double group,
the centres of the combining atoms will penetrate the atmospherule of
the double group, otherwise there would be only cohesive combination ;
hence the compound will continue a double group, and form two volumes
(prop. 3, cor. 3), except when the mutual actions bring all the centres
within the sphere of repulsion of one of them, thus constituting one
volume (prop. 3, cor. 1). Hence still we shall have either a single or
double group, and it is, from this, evident that no other case can occur ;
therefore the resulting volume will be always exactly one or two, how
ever many volumes combine.

   Cor. This prop, embraces, simplifies, and extends the theory of

volumes.

    Having deduced this remarkable law from theory, it became import

ant to know if such an unexpected result be true in fact or not. To
determine this point Mr. Exley carefully examined all the compound

gases and vapours, whose specific gravities had been obtained by expe
riment, as far as he could find them in the best authors. These, to the
amount of fifty-seven, are inserted in the following table. The specific
gravities are calculated according to this law, from the atomic weights
as given by Dr. Thompson, doubling some of his numbers to correspond
with oxygen 1G, and in every instance they agree within the allowable
limits of unavoidable errors in experiments of that kind, except in boro
                               TRANSACTIONS OF THE SUCTIONS.                                               5;j

chloric acid, which, says Dr. Thompson, requires                               further investigation,
and a small discrepancy in oil of turpentine, a                                substance difficult to
procure in a perfect state.

Table of the varieties of Chemical Compounds, with their Elements
            and Specific Gravities in the form of Gas or Vapour.

                                           1. Cohesive Combinations.

                                                                               S[KxiA(iicr G=raiv.ity,  !

                    Name.      Ni is. and Weighu of Element*.         2        By Calcula By Experi        Authority.
                                                                     >
1 . Carbonic Oxide . .                                                         tion.
2. Nitric Oxide . . .                                                                    ment.
3. Muriatic Acid . .
4. Hydrobromic Acid .          C+0              12 +  16        28   2   14      ·972       ·973        Thenard.
                               N+O              14 +            30   2   15    1041      1037               Do.
.... J\5. Hydriodic Acid . .   CI + H           36 +  16        37   2         1-284     1-248
                               Br   +   H       80 +    i        81  2   18J   2-812     2-731          Hint & Arago.
6. Bisulphurctof Mer-              +   H       126 +    1            2         4-409     4-443          Turner.
       cury                    I                        1      127       ·10!                           Gay Lussac.
                                                                         63*   5-370     5-384
7. Common Air . . .            S + 2M          32 + 200        232 3                                    Dnraas.
                                                                         77}   1-        1-
                               0+4 N           16 + 56         72 5                                     Assumed.
                                                                         Ui

                                   2. Com binatious in Single Grc ups.

 8. Cyanogen . . .             N+C              14 + 12         26   1 26        1-805     1-806        Gay Lussac.
 O.Dichloride of Sulphur       SF++    CI       32 + 36          68  1 68       4-722     4-70          Dumas.
10. Fluoboric Acid . .                 B        18 + 16         34              2-361     2-360
11. Biniodide of Mercury       I + Hg          126 + 100       226   I 34      15-694                   Davy.
                               C1 + Hg          36 + 100             1 226       9-444   15-670         Mitscherlich.
....12 Bichloride of Mercury                                   136   1 136                9-440
                                                                               12-50                       Do.
13. Bibromide of Mer- 1
                               Br + Hg         80 + 100 180 1 180                  ·972  12-36             Do.
    cury J                                                                      3-611
14. Olrfiant Gas . .           C+2 H           12 +     2 14 1 14               6-111      ·978         Henry.
15. Fluosilicic Acid           Si + 2 F        16 +   36 52 1 52                3194
16. Chloride of Silicon        Si + 2 CI       16 +                                      3-60           Thompson.
17. Nitrous Acid . .           N +2 0          14 +   72 88 1 88                3-472    5-939          Dumas.
                                                      A2 46 1 46                         3177
                                                                                 1-944                  Gay Lussac.
.......\18. Hydrocarburetof")
      Chlorine .               CI + (C+2 II)   36 + 14 50 1 50                  2-708    3-443             Do.
19. vEtherine .          .J     2C + 4H
                                               24 +   4 28 1 28                 2-847    1-91 Faraday.
                         ..                                                     4-444    2-776 Do.
                                                                                4-722
20. Bicarburet of Hy-    J     3C + 8H         36 + 8 39 1 39                   5-555
                                                                               13-888
drogen                                     II
21. Naphtha                                II
                               3C  +   5        36 +    5 41 1 41                         2-833         Saussure.
22. Naphthaline . . .              +   4        60 +     1 61 1 64                         4-528
                               5C               60 +   8 68 1 68                                        Dumas.
23. Camphene . . . 5C + 811                     72 +   8 80 1 80                           4-767           Do.
24. Oil of Turpentine . 6C + 8 11              152 +  48 200 1 200
25. Arsenious Acid . . 4 As + 3 0                                                         5013          jay Lussac.

                                                                                         13-67          Dumas.
        :>i SIXTH REPORT -- 1836.

                                           3. Combinations in Double Groups.

        Hum,                       Noi. and Wcighti or Element!.              a ii        Sj>ecAi6icr=Grla.rity,      Authority.

....21;. Water                                                                            Hy Calcula- By Experi-  Gay Lussac.
                                                                                          tion.     tncnt.        ThenarJ.
i-,. Sulphuretted
                      Hy- 1            0+2 H           16 +    2 is           2             ·625      ·628           Do.
  ...ilrogen                           S + 2 II        32 +    2 ;n           2                                   Berzelius.
                          J                            12 +                   1           1180      1190          Dumas.
88. Carl>onic Acid . .                 C+2 O                         n        2                                   Thenard.
                                                                              1           1-527     1-519         ti.iv I.njaac
29. Sulphurous Acid .                  S +2 O          32 4-           84     2           2-222     2-255         Dumas.
                                                                              3           3-611     3-67          Thenard.
30, Chloride of Sulphur                S + 2 CI        32 +            10I4I              1-687     1-522
31, Nitrous Oxide . .                  0      2N       16 +                   2 118       2-638     2-644         Mitscherlicb.
38, Bisulphuretof Carbon                   +           13 +              78                         3-942            Do.
:;:: Borochloric Acid .                C   +  2S       Hi +                        110    3055      2-346
:il DcutoxideofChlorinc                                36 +             ss           13*                          Gay Lussac.
                                       B   +  2C1                                   31    2-361     8-20          Dumas.
                                       CI  +                            68                                        Biot iV Arairo
                                              20                                    8j    8194      9-665         Mitscheriich.
                                                                                                      ·947
:;;. Protoehloride    of 1             CI + 2 llg      36 + 200 236                  10   9-722                   Thompson.
        Mercury .     .j                                                                    ·937    2153
                                       Br        llg                   880          (il                           Duma-.
36,     Bromide of Mercury         II   +  +2   + C)   80     800                         2152        ·597
37,     Hydrocyanic Acid .                  (N            1     26       27                                          Do.
                                                                -.'<;    68                 ·590    300
38. Chlorocyanic Acid . CI + (N + C)                   36                17               2-777                      Do.
:::> Ammonia . · · N +3 11                                        3      SO                         4-175            Do.
10. Sulphuric Acid . .                 S +30           14 +                               4-236                      Do.
...ii                                                  32 +     is
                                                                                                                  Henry.
     Inflammable Gas of 1          (C+2H)3+C1          14 + 108
       Dr. Thompson                                                                                               Dumas.
VI. Phosphurettcd Hy- "I
                                J      2 P + 3 II      38 35                  17+. 1-215            1-214             Do.
        drogen                                                                                      2-695
...... /\13 , Arsenurettcd Hy- 1                                              39i 2-743                           Gay Lussac.
         drogen   .                2 As + 3 H          76 +       3      70                                       Henry.
        Chloride  of                                                                                              Gay Lussac.
il   ,                Phos-         2 P + 3 CI         32 + 108        no      70 4-861             4-875         Thenard.
                                   2 As + 3 CI                         is I    98 6-388             6-30          Gay Lussac.
        phorus                  J  Tn + 4 CI                                  130 9-027                           Dumas.
15,, Chloride of Arsenic                                               260                          9199
it; . Pcrchloridc of Tin .           C + 4 II           76 + 108                              ·555                   Do.
... /ir , Light Carhurctted 1                          116 + 144         16                           ·559        llenrv.
                                    Ti + 4 II                                  lis 6-805
       Hydrogen . .                                    12 +       4                                 6-856
IS , Pcrchloridc of Ti- 1
                                                       52 + 144 196
        tanium               J

m , Perphosphuretted 1                 3P + 3 II       48 + 3          51     25 j 1-770            1-761
                                                                       46
     Hydrogen . . J                0 + 2C + CH 16 + 24 + 6                    23 1-597              1-613
50 , Alcohol . . .                                                            21 1-458              1-458
                                       3 C + 6 H I 36 + 6                     M 2-569               2-586
     , Oil Gas . . .                                                   48                           2-219
                                                                              :vi\ 2-256            5-474
    . /Ether . . .                 0+4 C+10HI16 + 48 + 10 74                                        2-383
                                   C1 + 2C + 5H 36 + 24 + 5 65                11 5-381              6-741
    , Muriatic /Ether.             T+2C + 5H 126 + 24 + 5 155                 84 2-361              8-478
;,i , Hydriodic /Ether                 5 C + 8 II      60 + 8          lis    98 6-666
                                                                              50 3-472
      Citrenc . . .

56. Paranaphhalinc                 21C5lC++(01+2 C11)  180 + 12        193
57 . Chloro-carbonicAcid                               72 + 28
                                                                       loo

                     On Gaseous Interference. By Dr. Charles Henry.
           It is universally known to chemists, that if oxygen and hydrogen be
        mixed, and brought into contact with metallic platinum in the state
        of wire or foil, or more especially in the spongy form, the combi-
                  TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                                                   55

nation of these gases is very rapidly achieved, and if mixed in the

proper proportion, they are converted, usually with the phenomena

of ignition, altogether into water. It is also well known, and was
first noticed by Dr. Turner, that if into an atmosphere of oxygen and
hydrogen, mixed in the ratio necessary for forming water, certain other
inflammable gases, such as carbonic oxide and olefiant gas be introduced,

the combination of the oxygen and hydrogen is, if not altogether sus
pended, at least materially interrupted. This is what Dr. Henry de
nominates gaseous interference. The cause of this remarkable effect
has, at different times, attracted the attention of eminent chemists.
Dr. Turner has ascribed it to the soiling of the platinum by the inter
fering gas ; Dr. Faraday to some peculiar condition induced in the metal ;
while Dr. Henry himself, at a period long prior to the present, con
ceived it to arise from the fact of carbonic oxide and olefiant gas having
a stronger affinity than hydrogen for oxygen gas. In his present paper.
Dr. Henry investigated the entire question. The prominent facts and
inferences appeared to be that carbonic oxide retards and limits, but
does not altogether prevent the action of platinum on the usual explo
sive mixture, and the same may be said of olefiant gas. The interfering
power, however, of the former i3 vastly greater than that of the latter,
their ratio being represented by the numbers 1 8 and 1 . In the case of

carbonic oxide, carbonic acid is always produced, the amount depend
ing on the form of the platinum employed, the quantity of the inter
fering gas, and the temperature at which the experiment is conducted ;
and, as a general rule, it may be laid down, that the interfering in
fluence of the gas  abnedartsheandeingvreeerseofrheelaatti--oncotondtithioense,nehrgoywewveitrh,  which
the platinum acts,                                                                                which

may be considered as identical. The diminution, and even disappear
ance, of interference at high temperatures, Dr. Henry attributes to a
relative augmentation of the affinity of hydrogen for oxygen, an hy

pothesis indeed established by other and independent facts.
   That Dr. Henry's theory of gaseous interference is the true one,
he infers from the general fact of no gases exercising any such in
fluence but those which have an affinity for oxygen ; and that it is

strictly true, at least in the case of carbonic oxide, there can be no
question, seeing that some of the oxygen is actually employed in the
production of carbonic acid.

   In the course of the paper several other interesting facts, of a col
lateral description, were stated, and, amongst others, that platinum
causes, though slowly, the combination of a mixture of oxygen and
carbonic oxide, but that the process is facilitated by the introduction
into the jar of a little caustic potash. This latter circumstance he

attributed to the removal of the carbonic acid by the potash as fast as
it was produced.
56 SIXTH REPORT -- 1836.

Experiments  Thoonmtshoen,CoMm.bDin.,atiFon.Rs .Sof.LS. ualpnhduEri.c,  Acid and Water.        By
   Thomas                                                               S,c, Professor of
                                                                                             Che

mistry in the University of Glasgow.

   To obtain pure sulphuric acid, Nordhausen acid diluted with water
till its specific gravity was only 18375 was distilled in a retort till the
liquid remaining in the retort was precisely the same with that of the
last portion distilled over. This happened when the specific gravity
of the acid was 1-8422. It was then a compound of

                    1 atom acid               5
                    1 atom water               1-125

                                              6125

and its atomic weight 6" 125. This acid, which was pure, (excepting
the presence of jj^oth part of its weight of sulphate of lime) was
employed in the following experiment :
   1. Specific gravity of different atomic compounds                    of sulphuric         acid

and water.
   These were obtained by mixing determinate weights of acid and water,
and taking the specific gravity of the compound. The following table
shows the result :

             Acid.  Water.  By Expe By Calcu                            Difference.
                             riment. lation.

1 Atom + 1 Atom             1-8422    1-7114                            + 0*0723 or sj
                            1-7837    1-6158                            + 0'0430 or ys'.y
   ,, +2 ,,                 1-6588    1-5429
   ,, +3 ,,                 1-5593    1-4854                            + 0*0164   or Tfe
   ,, +4 ,,                 1-4737    1-4389                            -- 0*0117
                            1-4170    1-4006                            -- 0*0219  or T'T
    ,, +5 ,,                1-3730    1-3684                            -- 0*0276  or ^.7
                            1-3417    1-3410                                       or j±.7
   ,, +6 ,,                 1-5105    1-3174                            -- 0*0267 or j+.j
    ,, +7 ,,                1-2845                                      --- 0*0305 or -^.-g
    ,, +8 ,,                                                               0*0329 or ^
    ,, +9 ,,

     ,, + 10 ,,

   From this table we see that the compound of one atom oil of vitriol,
with one, two, and three atoms water, has a specific gravity above
the mean, while the compounds of one atom oil of vitriol, with four, five.
six, seven, eight, and nine atoms water, are below the mean. In the
first case there is a condensation, but in the second an expansion, and
this expansion increases with the quantity of water.

   2. Heat evolved when an atom of oil of vitriol is mixed with from one

to nine atoms water.
    This was determined by pouring 1000 grains of oil of vitriol of

1-8422, upon the requisite quantity of water in a glass cylinder con
taining the water, and stirring the mixture with a thermometer. The
thermometer rises with very great rapidity, and begins almost imme
diately to descend, so that it is difficult to notice the highest point
to which it rises. The following table shows the result.
      TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.

VTM1       W--          Weight of                      Thermometer   evdrnred.
                    Acid. Water.                         rose from

                                     Grains.  Grains.  60° to 245"   185"
                                               183-6   67 to 286     219
1 Atom + 1 Atom 1000                                   60 to 268     208
                                               3673    60 to 263     203
                 2 ,, 1000                     550-9   60 to 238     178
               3 ,, 1000                               59 to 222     163
                 4 ,, 1000                     734-6   59 to 207     148
                 5 ,, 1000                             59 to 198     139
                                               918-3   59 to 188     129
                 6 ,, 1000                    1102
                 7 ,, 1000                    1285-7
               8 ,, 1000                      1469-3
                 9 ,, 1000                    1653

   But when oil of vitriol previously mixed with water in atomic pro
portions is mixed with an atom of water, the heat evolved is much
less. This will appear from the following table.

r(iAcid.       Water.                         Water.   Thermometer     Heat
                                                          rose from  evolved.
(i    ,om  +1  Atom)      +                   1  Atom
      ,          ,,)      +                        ,,  60° to 245°    185°
(i         +2                                 l        65 to 135        70
(i         43                                          64 to 110        46
ai    .         ,,     ) +1                      ,,    60 to 95         35
(i    ,    44   ,,     ) +1                      ,,    63 to 76          13
      ,    45   ,,     ) +1                            63 to 72             9
                                                 ,,    63 to 70
      - 46 ,, ) +1 ,,                                  63 to 69              7
      , 47 ,, ) +1 ,,                                  63 to 67             6
       ,   48   ,,        +                      ,,
           49   ,,     )                      1  ,,                        4
      ,,               )  4                   1

   3. Specific heats of various atomic compounds of sulphuric acid and

water.
   This was determined by putting 24 cubic inches of the acids to be

tried in a flask, heating them 80° above the air of the room, and noting
the number of seconds which each took to cool 40°. The following
table shows the result.

                        1 Time of Cooling, 40°.

        1 Atom Acid       + 1 Atom Water                 2 15" "5
      |,,                                              5720'"7
                          42                           5860
                          43
                          44                           4837-7
                          45                           4587*2
                                                       4702-7
                          +6                           4831*7
                                                       4967-3
                          47                           5075
                          4-8                          5169*3
                          49                           5267*7
                          4 10                         5307*5
58 SIXTH REPORT 1836.

   By subtracting the 215"-5 (the  time    the  empty flasks  troaotkiotso ocfotohle)
from the numbers in the preceding  table,   we  obtained the

specific heat of equal volumes of the above mixtures. By dividing
these numbers by the specific gravities of the various liquids as given
above, we obtain the specific heats of equal weights of each. The
following table shows these specific heats, that of water being reck

oned unity.

                                           Sp. Heats.

                    Water                  10000
                                           03593
                    1 Acid + 1 Water       0-4707
                    ,, +2 ,,               0-4786
                    ,. +3                  0-5228
                    ,, +4          ,,      0-5690
                    ,, +5          ,,      0-6091
                    ,, +6                  0-6429
                                   ,,      0-6699
                                   ,,      0-7003
                    ,, +7 ,,               0-7201
                    » +8
                    ,, +9          ,,
                                   ,,
                    ., + 10 ,,

  To know how far these numbers accord with the theory of Dr. Ir

vine, at present universally admitted, namely, that the heat evolved
when oil of vitriol and water are mixed is owing to the diminution of
the specific heat, we must make a comparison of the specific heats
above found with the specific heat of the mixture, supposing it a mean
of the specific heats of the acid and water without any change. This
is done in the following table.

                              Sp. Heat  Mean Sp.   Differences.
                              by Exp.     Heats.

             Water  Water.    10000

             Acid.            0-3593
             1 Atom + 1 Atom  0-4707
                              0-4786                   + 00120
             ,, +2 ,,         0-5228       0-4587      -- 00540
             ,. + 3 ,,        0-5690       0-5326
             ,, +4 ,,         0-6091       0-5869      - 0-0641
                              0-6428       06306
             a "r* O ,,       0-6699       0-6660      -00616
                              0-7003       0-6952
             »» + 6 ,,        0-7201       0-7197      - 0-0569
             ,. + 7 ,,                     0-7405      - 0-0524
             ,, +8 ,,                      0-7585
                                                       -- 0-0498
             ». + 9 ,,                                 -- 0-0402
                                                       -- 00384
             .. +10 ,,

   The slightest comparison of the second and third columns of the
table is sufficient to show that the theory of Dr. Irvine cannot be ac
curate. The specific heat of a compound of 1 atom oil of vitriol and
               TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                    59

1 atom water is greater than the mean by about ^yth. Hence it is im
possible that the heat evolved can be a consequence of a diminution,
when no such diminution exists. In all the other compounds there is
a diminution of the specific heat, but it does not correspond with
the heat evolved. The greatest takes place when one atom of oil of
vitriol is mixed with three atoms water. It amounts, in that case, to
about ^th, and the heat evolved is 208°. But when one atom of oil
of vitriol is mixed with two atoms of water, the heat evolved is 219° ;
yet the diminution of specific heat is only about -^y, and consequently
less than when the heat evolved is only 208°. The same want of coin
cidence exists in every part of the table. Hence it follows, that when

oil of vitriol and water are mixed the heat evolved is not the conse
quence of a diminution of the specific heat.
   Dulong and Petit observed that when the atomic weight of a simple
body is multiplied by its specific heat the product is a constant quantity.
Dr. Thompson has shown in a paper published in the third volume of the

Records of General Science, that this constant quantity is 0'375. It fol

lows from this law, that the same absolute quantity of heat exists in com

bination with every simple atom ; that the differences of the specific

heats of different simple bodies are owing to a difference in their atomic

weights.
   In the same paper it is shown that when the atomic weight of a
compound body is multiplied by its specific heat, the product is always
a multiple of 0-375 by a whole number, which number depends upon,
or at least is connected with the number of atoms of which the com
pound body is composed. If the number multiplying 0-375 be equal
to the number of atoms in the compound body, then it follows that
every atom of                                  the heat with which it
was combined   the compound  body retains all
                when in an   isolated state.   If the multiple be less

than the number of atoms, then the compound contains less heat than ex

isted in its elements, and the difference between the multiple and the
number of atoms gives us the proportion of heat wanting.
   Let us apply this method to the combinations of oil of vitriol and
water. The following table exhibits the result.

                  Atomic     Specific Product of
                  weight.      heat. cols. 2 & 3.

Water              1-125     1-0000    1-125       = 0-375 x 3
1 Acid + 1 Water   6-125     0-3593   2201         z= X 5-87
                   7-25      0-4707   3-412        :s x 909
  ,, +2 ,,         8-375     0-4786                = X 10-68
   ,, +3           9-5       0-5228   4-008        = X 13-24
  ,, +4 ,,        10-625     0-5690                = X 16-12
  Tit w ft        11-75      0-6091   4-966        =: x 1908
                  12-875     0-6429   6-046        = x 22-07
   ,, +6 ,,       14         0-6699                = x 25-01
                             0-7003   7-157        = x 28-24
   ,, +7 ,,       15-125     0-7201   8-277        = x 31-20
  ,, +8 ,,        1625                9-379
  .. +9 ,,                           10592
                                     11-702
   ,, + 10 ,,
   60 SIXTH REPORT -- 1836.

      The last column shows to what number multiplied by 0'375, the
   product of the atomic weight by the specific heat is equal. These
   numbers approximate to 3, 6, 9, 1 1, 13, 16, 19, 22, 25, 28, and 31 ; and

   Dr. Thompson thinks it probable that if the experiments on the specific
   heat of these compounds had been perfectly accurate, there would hare

   been the exact numbers, which, multiplied by 0"375, would have re
   presented the product of the atomic weight into the specific heat.

      Now, sulphuric acid is a compound of one atom sulphur and three
   atoms oxygen, so that an integrant particle of it contains four atoms.
   British chemists, in general, consider water as a compound of one atom
   oxygen and one atom hydrogen ; but the continental chemists consider
   it as a compound of one atom oxygen and two atoms hydrogen, con
   sidering the number of volumes as measuring the number of atoms.
   Many unanswerable reasons might be given for adopting this last con
   clusion as the true one. If, then, we admit that sulphuric acid con
   tains four atoms, and water three atoms, we may compare the number
   of atoms in each compound with the multipliers of 0'375, which
   represent the product of the atomic weight of each into its specific
   heat. ThiB is done in the following table.

                                    Number MultiplJ Differ Heat
                                    of atoms. of 0375. ence. evolved.

            Water                    3   30

            1 Acid + 1 Water          7  6 1 185"
                                    10
            ,, +2 ,,                13   91            70
                                    16
            ,, +3 ,,                     11 2 46
                                    19
            ,, +4 ,,                22   13 3 35
                                    25
            ,,            i" 5  >,  28   16 3          13
                                    31
            ,, +6 ,,                34   19 3          9

            ,, +7 ,,                     22 3          7

            ,, + 8 ,,                    25 3          6

            ,, i «* ,,                   28 3          4

            ,, + 10 ,,                   31 3

   From this table it is evident that when an integrant particle of oil
   of vitriol is combined with an integrant particle of water, the specific
   heat of the compound, instead of being 0'375 x 7, is only 0-375 x 6 ;
            ^th of        whole heat is thrown' out.  This amounts to 185°.
   so that   from    the  the cause of the evolution  of heat, and we see at
                    this
   We see
   the same time that the whole heat which existed in the water and oil
   of vitriol before combination was 185 x 7 = 1295°.
      When an integrant particle of acid, composed of (1 acid + 2 water)
   is mixed with a particle of water, the heat of the compound is less than
   0375 x 13, by 0375 x 2. In this case y^ths of the heat are evolved.
   When an integrant particle of acid composed of ( 1 acid + 3 water) is
   mixed with a particle of water, the heat of the compound, instead of

   being 0375 x 16, is only 0375 x 13, or /^ths of the heat are evolved.

-
        TRANSACTIONS OP THE SECTIONS.                               61

    From these examples the cause of the evolution of heat is evident,
and we have a method of determining the absolute quantity of heat in
bodies, which has been so long a desideratum.

On a Method of Ascertaining the Strength of Spirits. By Wm, Black.

   The author believes it has long been a desideratum with Government
to find a more scientific and accurate mode of trying the strength of

spirits than that now in use. A very slight inattention in the mode of
using the hydrometer may make a difference of at least five per cent. ;

and when the spirits are adulterated with sugar or salts that instrument
is totally useless.

   It is generally known that when equal quantities of proof spirits and
"water are mixed together at equal temperatures between 50° and 60°

Fahrenheit, the thermometer will, if immediately immersed in the

mixture, rise 9£ degrees, half a degree of caloric being perhaps ab
sorbed by the instrument in making the experiment.

   Mr. Black however thinks it is not so generally known that the
thermometer rises more or less according to the strength of the spirits,
and that it does so apparently in very regular progression. When spi
rits 45 per cent, over proof are mixed in equal quantities with water,
both being at the same temperature, between 50° and 60°, the thermo

meter, if immediately immersed in the mixture, will rise 14 degrees;
but with the strongest alcohol, also mixed in equal quantities with
water, it will not rise above that temperature unless more water be add
ed, showing that no further concentration takes place, and that the al
cohol can only combine with the water in fixed proportions, and that a
certain portion of the spirit must remain in the first mixture in an un-

combined state. Every degree on the thermometer appears to indicate
a difference of 10 per cent, in the strength of the spirit. Thus, if we
mix equal quantities of spirit, 10 per cent, over proof, and water, both
at equal temperatures    of about 55°, the thermometer will rise
with spirits 20 o.p. it                                             10£° ;
                         will rise ll£"; and so on, one degree for  every
additional 10 per cent. o. p. until it reaches 40 or 45 o.p., when no
further increase is apparent, unless, as before stated, more water be

added.

The thermometer seems to act in a similar manner with spirits under
proof; thus with spirits 10 per cent. u.p. mixed with water as above
the indication is 850, and one degree less for every 10 per cent, under
until we get to 45 percent, u.p., after which, although a rise does take
place, Mr. Black is not sure that the indications are so regular.
When spirits are mixed with sugar, thus increasing the specific gra
vity so as to falsify the hydrometer 20 or 30 per cent or more, the in
dications of the thermometer are precisely the same, if we make al
lowance for the slight difference in volume caused by the mixture of

sugar.

   If the mixtures he made at higher temperatures the thermometer indi
cates a lesser number of degrees in rise according to the temperatures.
62 SIXTH REPORT -- 183C.

When between 70° and 80°, nearly two degrees less ; but the progres
sions appear to go on regularly as before. The thermometer also gives
pretty accurate results with wine or strong beer when applied as above.

   The author does not however presume to give the above as accurate
results, but merely to state that the thermometer appears to indicate a
regular progression according to the strength of the spirits and the
temperatures at which the experiments may be made. He desires at
present to draw attention to the subject, in hopes that some mode
of application may be discovered which may render it available, and per
haps accurate, in ascertaining the qualities of spirits or acids.

NoFti.cRe.So.f,  a new Gaseous Bicarburet  of Hydrogen.    By Edmun d Davy,
                                             of Chemistry  to the Royal Dublin
                 M.R.I.A., #c, Professor

Society.

    Early in the present year the author, in attempting to procure potas
sium by strongly heating a mixture of calcined tartar and charcoal in
a large iron bottle, obtained a black substance, which readily decom
posed water, and yielded a gas which on examination proved to be a
new compound of carbon and hydrogen. This gas is highly inflam
mable, and when kindled in contact with air burns with a bright flame,

apparently denser and of greater splendour than even olefiant gas. If

the supply of air is limited the combustion of the gas is accompanied
with a copious deposition of carbon. When the new gas is brought in
contact with chlorine gas instant explosion takes place, accompanied
by a large red flame and the deposition of much carbon ; and these ef
fects readily take place in the dark, and are of course quite independent
of the action of the sun's rays or of light.

    The new gas may be kept over mercury for an indefinite time with
out undergoing any apparent change, but it is slowly absorbed by
water. Distilled water recently boiled, when agitated in contact with
the new gas, absorbs about its own volume of it ; but on heating the
aqueous solution the gas is evolved apparently unaltered. The new gas
is absorbed to a certain extent by, and blackens, sulphuric acid. It

detonates powerfully when mixed with oxygen gas, especially if the
latter forms three fourths or more of the mixture ; and the only pro

ducts of its combustion with oxygen are carbonic acid gas and water.
    The new gas requires for its complete combustion two and half vo

lumes of oxygen gas, which are converted into volumes of carbonic
acid gas and water.

   From the author's analysis of the new gas by different methods, it ap
pears to be composed of one volume of hydrogen, and two volumes of
the vapour of carbon condensed into one volume. Hence the new gas
contains as much carbon, but only half the quantity of hydrogen, that
is in olefiant gas. The density of the former is therefore less than that
of the latter, by the weight of a volume of hydrogen equal to its own
bulk. The new gas is in fact a bicarburet of hydrogen, composed of
                   TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                  (J3

two proportions of carbon and one of hydrogen, and may be represented
by the formula Cs + H1 or 2 C + H, and differs in constitution, the au
thor presumes, from that of any other known compound of carbon and
hydrogen.
From the brilliancy with which the new gas bums in contact with
the atmosphere, it is, in the opinion of the author, admirably adapted
for the purposes of artificial light if it can be
   A more detailed account of the properties       procured at a  cheap rate.
                                                   and relations  of the new

gas, and of the experiments on which the foregoing statements are
founded, probably will shortly appear either in the Transactions of the
Royal Dublin Society or of the Royal Irish Academy.
Professor Davy made the new gas, and illustrated some of its most
striking properties, at the Scientific Meeting of the Royal Dublin So
ciety last March.

Notice of a peculiar   Compound of Carbon   and Potassium, or     Carburet of
                      By Edmund Davy,                              Sic, Pro
    Potassium, fyc.                        F.R.S., M.R.I.A.,

fessor of Chemistry to the Royal Dublin Society.

In January last the author made different experiments to obtain the
metal of potash on a large scale, by exposing to a high temperature in
an iron bottle a mixture of previously ignited tartar and charcoal pow
der, in proportions of the latter
whole mass. In one experiment      varying from about -fa to -fo of the
                                   a substance was obtained of a dark
grey colour, rather soft to the knife, though adhering with great tena
city to the iron and inclining to a granular structure. This substance,
when thrown into water, decomposes it with great facility, carbona
ceous matter is disengaged and gas copiously evolved, with occasional

inflammations on the surface, as is commonly the case with potassium
under similar circumstances. The gas when examined was found to
consist of hydrogen, and the new compound of carbon and hydrogen
(noticed in a separate communication), in nearly equal volumes. The
author regards this substance as a mixture of potassium and carburet of
potassium ; the former by its action on water furnishing the hydrogen,
and the latter the new gas. In collecting gas from this substance by
the action of water over mercury a novel and interesting case of com

bustion was observed. A little of the substance being placed at the

end of a tube filled with mercury, on letting up a few drops of water

gas was copiously disengaged, and as the mercury descended along the
tube small portions of the substance became ignited, exhibiting the ap
pearance of bright sparks of fire in continual succession.

   In another experiment with the iron bottle no potassium was ob
tained, but a small quantity of a substance partly in powder and partly
in small lumps of a dense black colour, which the author considers car
buret of potassium, probably in a purer state than has yet been de
scribed.

   This carburet exhibits no appearance of crystallization to the naked
eye, but when viewed with a glass of high magnifying power the au
64 SIXTH REPORT 1836.

thor thinks he has observed congeries of exceedingly minute four-sided
prisms truncated at their solid angles.
   When a small portion of the carburet      is exposed to the air it soon
undergoes changes, oxygen is absorbed, and water, and the damp sub
stance has a burning taste and is caustic potash with carbon.
When the carburet is put into water both substances are decomposed :
one portion of the carbon unites with the hydrogen of the water form
ing the new bicarburet of hydrogen, which seems the only gaseous
product, the remaining carbon being disengaged, whilst the oxygen of
the water and the potassium form potash. Alcohol and turpentine act

very feebly on the carburet, acids strongly.
The carburet undergoes partial decomposition at a dull red heat in
close vessels, potassium slowly rises from it, whilst the carbon remains
of a deeper black colour than the carburet.

From the author's experiments the carburet appears to be composed
of one proportion of carbon and one of potassium.

Mr. Mushet exhibited to the Chemical Section several pieces of iron
ore retaining their original structural form, but converted into masses
of malleable iron perfectly ductile and capable of receiving polish. He
explained to the section that this curious change was effected by a
                    of de-oxydation in contact  with                  matter
protracted process  access of atmospheric air,          carbonaceous  of the
shut up from all                                -- the   temperature

furnace about 80 of Wedgwood according to the old method of reckon
ing, this limitation of temperature being necessary to produce the ef
fects. With a higher temperature a more powerful affinity would be
established between the particles of iron and the embedding carbona
ceous matter, which in the first instance would convert the masses into
steel; and next, by superinducing fusion, into cast iron more or less a
carburet, according to the proportion of carbon which may have united
with the iron. The pieces of iron ore may, by being presented to fresh
charcoal under a repetition of the process, be converted into steel, pre
serving as in the present specimen their original forms altogether un
changed. One of the pieces had by de-oxydation for twelve or four
teen days passed into the state of steel ; the others in the state of mal
leable iron had been exposed for about a week. Mr. M. then stated
that the specimens exhibited were made from the hydrous oxide of
iron known in the Forest of Dean by the name of Black Brush, but
that other ores, and even the peroxides of Lancashire and Cumberland,
were subject to the same change by following the same line of opera
tion. The converted ore contained 95 per cent, of malleable iron,
a portion of which if melted alone would be
produce only 70 per cent, of cast malleable     riero-onx, y--ditzheedwsaostefaroradseftio
octhifeenchtsauirrrcfoaoncael,beo9ifn6gthpeeforpurnceedcnitpi,nitaottfhegedosotidraotcneaso;tfbsuatteemilfewtmaiellllilctebdeshtwhineitihnrge^sgutllahts;sitascnodwveewriignithght
^thor jJyththe weight of the ore of charcoal, 98 per cent, of the richest
TRANSACTIONS OF THK SECTIONS.                                                                     65

quality of cast iron. In the last two operations the small quantity of
earthy matter in the ore will appear in the form of a clear glass with a

slight purple tinge.
   Mr. Mushet described the process of smelting iron ores in the blast

furnace as of a twofold nature, and stated that it exhibited all the phe

nomena now alluded to (namely de-oxydation and carburation) ; crude or
cast iron when run from the blast furnace must have passed through

the various stages of malleable iron and steel before absorbing as much
carbon from the fuel as would enable the iron to flow from the furnace.
In the upper region of the blast furnace the first operation that takes
place towards a perfect reduction is the gradual de-oxydation of the
iron ore by the heated fuel in the absence, or nearly so, of oxygen. When
this is perfected the particles are in the state of soft or malleable iron,
but owing to the short time they are exposed, and the inferior tempe
rature, they are not welded together as in the specimens which were
exhibited. As the ore, however, descends in the furnace and meets
with a higher temperature and an enlarged volume of fuel, an affinity
is established between it and the particles of iron, which by absorb
ing about Tfoth of their weight pass into the steely state. A further de
scent in the furnace towards its greatest diameter brings the iron in the
state of crude steel into a still higher temperature and iu contact with
a larger body of fuel, in consequence of which a more powerful affinity
is exerted, and the iron finally separated in the state of cast iron, more
or less a carburet as the purposes of the manufacturer may require.
   In reference to the protracted process of de-oxydation first alluded to,

Mr. Muschet stated that a higher temperature, although required to weld
and compact together the particles of iron, was not necessary for the
de-oxydation itself, for at a bright red heat all but the very last portions
of oxygen may be attracted from the iron, and the pieces of ore left easy
to be pulverized. He had at one time taken advantage of this cir
cumstance to form from the iron ore a powerful metallic cement calcu
lated to give stability to great national undertakings, such as the Ply
mouth Breakwater, Lighthouses, &c. He presented specimens of it
resembling masses of iron at a meeting of the Society of Civil Engi
neers, with which that intelligent body (the late Mr. Telford then at
their head) expressed themselves highly pleased. But without reference
to its merits, as soon as it was known that it could not be rendered as

cheap as Roman cement, it ceased to excite any interest and was never
inquired after. Sir John Rennie however saw its value, and was anxious
to introduce it at the Plymouth Breakwater and at other places, and
took a great deal of trouble in the matter. Three or four casks were

sent to the Breakwater and there misapplied, as an unfavourable report
reached the Admiralty sometime afterwards. This singular cement dif
fers from all others, inasmuch as it expands in the act of setting, by
which means it never shrinks from the substance to which it is at

tached, but becomes completely united with it. The West India
Dock Company alone seem to appreciate its peculiar properties. They
find that it binds together their granite pavement in a way superior to
                                                               of
evevroylt..hinv.g--el1s8e3. 6.  (The  manufacture                  it  has  been  discontinued).
                                                            v
(J6 SIXTH REPORT -- 1836.

     On the Conducting Powers of Iodine. By James Inglis, M.D.

    The author in this communication replies to objections which had
been raised relative to the assertion contained in his Prize Essay on

iodine, viz., that this substance is a conductor of electricity. In the

experiments which he instituted for the purpose he employed iodine
from the manufactory of Mr. Whitelaw of Glasgow, where no iron
vessel is ever employed, and in which in its veriest impurity no iron
can be detected. He exhibited a tube containing an aqueous solution of
ioduret of iron, a second containing an aqueous solution of the iodine to
be tested, and a third having in it a solution of the ferrocyanate of
potass. Now, on adding a portion of the last to the iron solution, im
mediately the blue ferrocyanate of iron is formed, but no such effect takes
place when added to the solution of iodine. Add, however, now a sin
gle drop of the ioduret solution and instantly the blue precipitate falls.

    But supposing that a small portion of the ioduret was present, we
know that from its great afhnity for water it could be removed by
washing. Being therefore washed, thoroughly dried with blotting
paper, and lastly sublimed three times, it is presumed the iodine used
was as pure as possible.

    Having put a portion of this into a tube with a platinum wire her
metically sealed into one extremity, a second wire was introduced at
the other, till one end approached the former to within about the fourth
of an inch ; this extremity was now hermetically sealed ; so that the
arrangement consisted in a closed tube containing perfectly dry and
pure iodine, with two separate platinum wires communicating together
only through the medium of the iodine. A galvanic trough was now
charged, and one of the platinum wires attached to the positive pole,
whilst the other was placed in a glass of acidulated water ; on forming
the galvanic circle no effect was produced, nor was there any differ
ence on reversing the poles.

    The iodine being now liquified by the flame of a spirit lamp, and
the tube attached to the negative pole, the platinum wire was placed as
before in water, and on completing the circle by a copper wire from the
positive pole, instantly bubbles of gas appeared, and were evolved at
the platinum wire, whilst none appeared at the copper, being positive.

    The order being reversed, evolution took place at both wires, proving
clearly that decomposition had been effected. Again, on placing the
wire on the tongue, and touching the other pole, a strong galvanic
sensation is instantly experienced. On removing the heat the power
of conducting gradually dies away, so that in seven minutes it is in
capable of transmitting even sufficient to be felt by the tongue. There
fore Dr. Inglis, when he stated in a note attached to Mr. Solly's paper
that iodine when cold and concrete still conducted, was in error, being
led to say so from recollection only. But his general statement that
iodine was a conductor is satisfactorily shown to be borne out by experi
ment.
TRANSACTIONS OF THB SECTIONS.   67

On Paracyanogen, a new Isomeric Compound. By J. F. W. Johnston,

                     A.M., Professor of Chemistry, Durham.

When protocyanide of mercury is heated, cyanogen is given off and
a black substance remains. When the salt is perfectly dry, the gas
given off is altogether absorbed by potash, and is perfectly pure. Pro
fessor Johnston therefore concluded that the residual black substance
                                Having communicated this view to M.
was isomeric with cyanogen.
Liebig, an accurate analysis by that chemist confirmed its truth. Pro
fessor Johnston described the principal properties of this remarkable
body, which is a very stable compound, but is converted into cyanogen
by an elevated temperature, or by heating it with potassium, with which
it forms the ordinary cyanide.

                   On Arsenical Poisons. By W. Heeapath.

    As arsenical poisons are obtained with much facility and their opera
tion is deadly, they are the principal means resorted to by the secret

poisoner. It becomes, therefore, essential to the community that every

new fact relating to their administration, operation, or detection should
be made known. The author is not aware that any well-authenticated
case of poisoning by red arsenic had been published till the Burdock
case was examined. In this instance the victim, Mrs. Smith, had
been buried fourteen months ; upon examination orpiment was found

in the stomach, and the body was partly converted into adipocire. In
prosecuting his experiments Mr. Herapath conceived the idea of identi

fying the poison found with that sold by the druggist to the witness
Evans through an impurity he discovered in the poison of the stomach.
With this view he purchased some out of the same box, and requested
that it might be of the same kind as that sold the prisoner's agent. It
was then found that the box contained three different kinds of substances
mixed together, white, yellow, and red arsenic, the two former in
lumps, the latter in powder, and that it was the powder of realgar
only which had been administered, although it was undoubtedly
found as yellow orpiment in the exhumed body. Iu tracing the pos
sibility of change, he found two agents, sulphuretted hydrogen and
ammonia, which would convert realgar into orpiment. Now as it is
well known that both of these gases are evolved during putrid decom
position, there could be no difficulty in accounting for the change of
colour. But, to place the matter beyond all doubt, a direct experiment
was made by poisoning an animal with realgar, which after putrefaction
became changed, as in the case of Mrs. Smith. The conviction of the
prisoner mainly rested on the evidence of a little girl, who deposed
that she saw the prisoner Mrs. Burdock put a powder into some gruel
and afterwards administer it to Mrs. Smith.

   At the time considerable doubt was entertained of the truth of her

evidence from its being invariably precise, even to a word, and also
from the difficulty of believing that any person would be so fool-hardy

f2as to mix and administer poison before a child, and that child a stranger.
68 SIXTH REPORT -- 1836.

But  what   she  s"tattehde  proves satisfactorily that  her evidence was correct, for
she  said  that              gruel was of a nasty red    colour," when nothing had

transpired of red arsenic ; and had she invented a tale to account for the
appearance of the body, or had she spoken from what she heard from
others, she would have said the gruel was of a yellow colour.
From what occurred, therefore, it is clear that the realgar of the
shops would cause death ; that half an ounce given at twice (by the
prisoner's confession) was sufficient for that purpose ; that realgar
became orpiment during putrefaction ; that realgar, like arsenious
acid, had a tendency to control putrefaction, and convert bodies

into adipocire.
During the experiments upon this case it was found that the mi
croscopic system of testing, which was first introduced by Dr. Wol-
laston, and which Mr. Herapath constantly followed, could be made
to improve the very beautiful reducing process proposed by Dr. Chris-
tison, and also furnished an excellent method of proving to the jury the
presence of arsenic. The whole organic matter having been decompo
sed in boiling nitromuriatic acid, potash added in excess to prevent the
injurious effects of mineral acids on sulphuretted hydrogen, a slight
excess of acetic acid poured in, and the sulphuret of arsenic precipi
tated and reduced in Berzelius's tube to the metallic state, and then
oxidized, as recommended by Christison, the author found in the subse

quent experiments a modification of Dr. Wollaston's practice very be
neficial.

Instead of putting the few drops of solution of arsenious acid thus
obtained into test-tubes to apply the reagents, he used a china tablet,
and having applied a drop of the solution, then a little ammoniacal sul
phate of copper, the green of Scheele became evident by the contrast of
colour with the white plate ; but even that might be improved by gui
ding the coloured drop by means of a glass rod down upon a piece of
white blotting paper, previously placed on a flat chalk-stone, which by
absorbing the solution removed any excess of the blue reagent, (which
which was always liable to overpower the colour of Scheele's green,)
while it left the latter on the paper, and when dried it could be intro
duced into a sealed tube, which could be marked by a diamond, in the
handwriting of the experimenter ready for identification before the jury.
Mr. Herapath is satisfied that 10j()1)th of a grain of arsenious acid might
be detected by these means. The other two reagents, ammoniacal ni
trate of silver and sulphuretted hydrogen, can be applied in the same way,
and when dried the product may be similarly inclosed. In all cases
where a highly oxygenating process is followed, for instance, when the
mixture is boiled in nitro-muriatic acid, or where deflagration with nitre
is practised, the arsenical compound is converted into arsenic acid, and
in passing sulphuretted hydrogen (after the usual precautions) the first
portion of the gas is decomposed by giving hydrogen to the oxygen of
the arsenic acid, consequently sulphur falls mixed with sulphuret of
arsenic, but so extremely light that it takes some hours to deposit ;
after which the mixed mass may be collected together, and upon re
ducing it to metallic arsenic the sulphur would be separated ; for from
        TRANSACTIONS OF THK SUCTIONS.                                                            69

being more volatile it is found above the crust of metal, and in the

oxydizing process forms sulphurous acid and disappears, while the
arsenious acid condenses.

   It sometimes happens that arsenic is contained in substances which
prevent the ordinary processes from being followed, for instance in
the case of Sophia Edney, who was convicted at Taunton of poisoning
her husband. The author found about an eighth of a grain in the
duodenum (the contents of the stomach having been thrown away by
the surgeon who examined the body, under the belief that an ulcer
found in the stomach was sufficient to account for death) ; the only
other matters brought for examination were a few grains of bacon-fat
scraped from the edges of a frying-pan. In the fat he could find no
arsenic, and the potatoe being an amylaceous substance, it was in

vain to try the usual reagents or to make a filtered solution. It was
therefore projected into melted nitre ; when it was deflagrated, diluted
acetic acid was added to rather more than neutralize the carbonate of

potass resulting from the deflagration of the charcoal of the vegetable
and animal substances. A stream of sulphuretted hydrogen was then
passed through it, which turned it yellow, and upon deposition and sub
sequent treatment in the way alluded to before, enough was obtained
to take to a jury : specimens of the reduced metal, of arsenious acid,
Scheele's green, arsenite of silver and orpiment, although the reduced

arsenic was not more than -j-^ of a grain. It had been said by the
dying man that his wife had fried potatoes in this pan for him and he
had not been well since. The pan had been subsequently used to fry
        pwrishoicnher,hawd hboehenadehateernsewlfit"heaimtepnuanibtyit  by two persons,
bacon,                                                                  as big as a nut ;"  exclusive
of the                                                                                      yet there

was enough left adhering to the pan to prove her guilt, which her con

fession subsequently acknowledged.
Although nitre affords an excellent means of removing all organic
matter, and thus leaving the operator free from all embarrassment, yet
it cannot be depended on in quantitative analysis, as a certain propor
tion is volatilized during the process ; this loss might be reduced by
putting a little nitre in the solution before evaporating to dryness.
The plan of discovering arsenious acid by arseniuretted hydrogen,
and depositing the arsenious crust during its combustion, recently pro
posed by Mr. Marsh of Woolwich, was described by Mr. Herapath as
the most elegant that could be conceived, and at the same time the
most sensitive ; he suggested the following precautions for the purpose
of evidence before a jury. The zinc used for the preparation of hydro
gen should have been treated by the experimenter in the same way
without arsenic, or it might be supposed that the arsenic was contained

in the zinc ; the metallic crust should be so received as to be kept as
                                                           air, otherwise it  would
bmvucphassaisngposinsitbolethferom" FalytmPooswphdeerric"  of the Germans.           lose   its  lustre

Instead of a plate of glass to receive the crust Mr. H. used one of
mica, with three drops of water in separate places on one of its sur
faces ; if the flame was allowed to play under one of those drops, the
evaporation of the water kept the place cool, and the crust was thicker
70 SIXTH RKPORT -- 1S.3G.

while the risk of fracture was avoided. Then by inverting the plate,
and holding the drops in succession some little height over the flame,
they became solutions of arsenious acid, and could be tested with the
three reagents as before stated. The part of the plate of mica con
taining the crust may then be cut off" and introduced into glass tubes,
                                      like the slips of blotting paper  containing the
hermetically sealed              up                                     make quantita
coloured results of              the  reagents. If it be necessary to

tive experiments, the products of the flame may be condensed in a
large globe ; the arsenious acid dissolved and precipitated by sulphu

retted hydrogen.

On Lithiate of Ammonia as a Secretion of Insects. By Wm. Herapath.

   Lithic acid has been discovered as an abundant secretion in the urine
of mammalia, in that of birds (particularly of those with carnivorous
propensities), and in the excrement of the boa constrictor ; but Mr. H.
was not aware that it had been noticed among the insect tribes, previ
ous to his examination of a fawn-coloured substance which is ejected
with considerable force by the common silk- worm (Phaltena Mori) in its
moth state of existence. This is principally composed of lithiate of
ammonia. As the insects do not eat either in the chrysalis or the moth
state, or even for some days before spinning, and as they discharge at the
last-mentioned period all the remains of food and become transparent,
it would seem that the lithiate of ammonia is not excrementitious in
the common acceptation of the term, but a secretion destined for some
particular purpose, possibly for softening the cocoon. He afterwards
examined other insects of the moth tribe, and found that there are so
many producing the same substance (varying a little in colour from the
presence of rosacic or purpuric acids) that it might be considered as
common to the tribe. Those who wish to carry on experiments upon
this point will find good subjects in the privet hawk-moth (Sphinx
ligustri), the lackey (Neustria), the puss moth (Centra vinula), and the
ermine.

   It is remarkable that in the cases mentioned by Mr. Herapath the

lithiate of ammonia should be produced by creatures living entirely on
vegetable food.

Analysis of the Water of the King's Bath, Bath. By Wm. Herapath.

On June 4th, 1836, the temperature of the spring head of the                     Grains.
   King's Bath while running was 114° F., and its sp. gr. at
    60° was
                                                                                 1001905
Upon evaporating to dryness an imperial pint of 8750 grs.
    --theArelistitdleue    was   found to be... . -
A.                       spirit  of wine was three                               19-075

                                                     times  aifused  upon  this

    and decanted ; it had dissolved 3-23 grs. ; slow crystalliza
    tion under the microscope showed it to be chloride of mag
    nesium and chloride of sodium ; there was no chloride of
                TRANSACTIONS OF THK SECTIONS.                                     71
                                                                             Grains,
calcium or strontium : precipitated by carbonate of ammonia
and phosphate of soda the magnesia was equal to magnesium.                     '187
The             acidulated with nitric                                by ni  1 1 24
trate  liquid   gave chloride of silver  a=cidc, hlporreicniepitated
       silver,                                                                 -747
                                                                               "940
As *187 magnesium is equal to *560 chlorine, and the re                      1543
maining -564 chlorine to '376 sodium, it follows that the
loss was 1'543. As this loss was enormous it was sup                          '932
                                                                             1'334
posed to be water of the muriate of magnesia ; to prove                      1'166
which some magnesia was dissolved in muriatic acid, eva
porated to dryness at the same heat, and found = 19'8 grs.                     -188
while hot ; decomposed by heat in a platina dish it weighed                     680
7'45 only. This loss was equivalent to 1*428 on the mu                         "021
riate of magnesia of the spirituous solution, the difference
between 1'543 and T428 being caused by inequality of                         11 '31

heat or extractive matter.

  The spirit salts were therefore Chloride magnesium. ...
                                 Chloride sodium

B. --Acted on theremainingsalts       Water
                                 with water containing enough
alcohol to prevent the solution of sulphate of lime ; evapo
rated to dryness and re-dissolved in as little water as pos
sible to leave behind any sulphate of lime which might yet

have been dissolved ; evaporation under the microscope
showed the mass to be composed of the remainder of the
common salt, sulphates of magnesia and soda. The ma
gnesia was precipitated and found to be '3 1 2 gr. After the
addition of nitric acid to suspend the phosphates, nitrate
of silver precipitated chloride equal to chlorine -700. Then
nitrate of barytes gave sulphate equal to sulphuric acid
1'360, of which '620 was required by the magnesia, the
remaining "740 by soda, while the '700 chlorine was equal

to "466 sodium.

The water salts were therefore :

                                 Sulphate magnesia

                                                             Sulphate soda
                                                      Chloride sodium

                                                                Loss

C. --The pulverulent residue was acted on by muriatic acid

    with alcohol ; it effervesced ; after decantation the fluid was
    precipitated by oxalate ammonia, which, heated red, gave
    carbonate lime
    Ammonia gave red oxide of iron
    Phosphate of soda gave on concentration a trace of ma

D. g--neTshiae. remaining ll-53 was treated with boiling muriatic

    acid diluted, but with no alcohol ; it was all dissolved but
    ·220, which was taken as silica, the sulphate of lime being

                                                                                      X
73 SIXTH REPORT 18.36.

The solid contents of the water were then,

                  As found.           As existing in the Water.
Chloride of magnesium . .
                             ·747     Chloride of magnesium. .   "747

Chloride of sodium             9401   Chloride of sodium         2-106
Sulphate of magnesia.. . .
                             1-166/   ..Sulphate of magnesia. .    "932
                                                                 1 "334
                               ·932   Sulphate of soda           1'019
                                      Bicarbonate of lime
Sulphate of soda             1-334

Carbonate of lime            ·680

Carbonate of iron            ·021     Bicarbonate of iron        "030

Carbonate of magnesia. . . a trace.   Bicarbonate of magnesia.. a trace.
Sulphate of lime                      Sulphate of lime
                             1 1-310                             11 310

Silica                       ·220     Silica                     -220

                             17-350                              17-698

Loss, probably extractive.. -188

Water                        1-543

                                             19-081

   The author has some doubts whether the whole of the iron exists as
bicarbonate ; certainly by far the greatest proportion is in that state,
because upon standing an ochre is deposited and the water has but a
very slight action on iron tests. Some experimenters have imagined
that a part was dissolved as sulphuret, and others have found the iron
as metal upon evaporation ; but Mr. Herapath found no direct evidence
of the first ; and as to the second he observes that every experimenter
who found metallic iron had evaporated in a brass or other metallic
boiler, which would easily account for its presence ; but it is not un
likely that a small portion is held in solution otherwise than as bicar
bonate.

   The other water was found in Kingsmead-street. A well 59 feet

deep and 40feet boring had been upon the premises for some time, which
contained water of the temperature of 76°, and from the heat of its sides
it was evidently in the neighbourhood of hot water. As this spring fur
nished but 35 hhds. a day, and more was wanted, a boring hole was
made which passed through the following strata :

                                   35 feet of blue lias.
                                       50 white lias.
                                   1 1 white clay.
                                   1 1 sulphur clay.

                                         1 red soil.

                                    108
                                  59 original well.
                                  40 original boring well.

                                    207
When at this depth no water was found ; but one morning upon the
workmen arriving the well was discovered to be full of hot water to
                   TRANSACTIONS OF THK SECTIONS.                               7;;

within 7 feet 5 inches of the surface, and it was running over through
   a weak place in the side at a very rapid rate.
      Examined June 4th, 1836 ; it was found discharging at the rate of 1 37
   gallons a minute, and it was stated that the flow had been invariable
   from the month of November last ; its temp, was 99°, and its s. g. at

   60°, 1-001957.

   Upon treating 8750 grs. exactly as that of the King's Bath, the fol
   lowing salts were obtained as existing in the water :
                   Chloride of magnesium
                                                -673

                   Chloride of sodium           2-920

                   Sulphate of magnesia         1-105
                                                2090
                   Sulphate of soda
                   Bicarbonate of lime
                                                1-170

                   Bicarbonate of iron          -016

                   Bicarbonate of magnesia      a trace.

                   Sulphate of lime and silica  1 1*472

                                                                                      19-446

      This water then is of the same class as the King's Bath, being ther
   mal and chalybeate. It contains 1£ gr. more of solid contents in the
   imperial pint, and the proportion of the various ingredients differs.

      The Bath waters have been repeatedly the subjects of analysis, but
   the results are very various, scarcely any two experimenters agreeing
   in the details, although the total quantity of solid matter is not so much
   a subject in dispute. Whether the water differs at distant periods, or
   the system of analysis followed is the cause of the disagreements, Mr.
   Herapath does not attempt to decide, but contents himself with placing
   the operations of each chemist in juxtaposition, supposing them to
   operate upon the old wine pint, which was the quantity referred to
   by them. The carbonates are assumed to have existed as bicarbonates.

   Wilkinson.                    Phillip.  Scu damorc corrected  Herapath.
                                            by turning muriates
                                            into chlorides.

Chloride magnesium      3 045    324            1-350            Bicarbonate.    ·630
     _,, sodium... .                            1-000               Do         1-778
                        1-630         99
      ,, calcium... .     -797                    ·900                           ·791
Sulph. magnesia... .      -200   1-475            01-985
                                   ·760                                        1132
    ,, soda             8370      ·00196
Carb. lime                -180                                                 . *802
                            090                                                  -025
   ,, iron
    ,, magnesia. . . .           8850                 9-500                    9-610
                                                                                 ·180
Sulphate lime                       19                    ·200
Silica                                      Loss. . -58015

Extractive                                  Water. -450

1                       14-303|l4-51696         140000                         14-958
74 sixth report-- 1836.

On the Analysis of Wheat, a peculiar Volatile Fluid, and a Soluble Modi
    fication of Gluten, Nitrogen in Ligniu, 8tC By W. C. Jokes.

    Having observed a peculiar liquid and soluble gluten in experiments to
ascertain the quantity of starch, &c. which exists in ordinary wheat, the
author first gives the results of his observations on the gluten and starch.
He carefully separated the starch from 100 samples of wheat.every 1 0 of
which were as nearly alike as possible, and the analysis given below is the
mean of every 10 of the similar samples. Every one of the 100 sam
ples was separated in two ways : the quantity of water was ascertained
in one set of experiments by heating the meal at a temperature of 1 60°
until no more was given off, the quantity of gluten by washing away
the starch in the usual way, the quantity of soluble matter by digesting
with water at a moderate temperature, and evaporating to dryness before
fermentation was produced. In the other method of operating, which
has been found the most accurate, the meal was mixed with four parts
of water at a temperature of 68° Fahrenheit ; the fermentation was allowed
to go on, until the saccharine matter was converted into alcohol and the
alcohol to acetic acid, which eventually dissolves every particle of gluten
in the wheat. When the ingredients, viz., the meal and water, have
been mixed 12 hours, the mass will swell up considerably, and the
temperature will increase ; in 12 hours more the solid parts will subside
and the supernatant liquid will have a sweet taste, slightly acid, s. g.
1 -01 8. When all the alcohol and other principles are converted into acetic
acid (more acetic acid being formed than the alcohol would produce),
and when the gluten is dissolved, the liquid will have an acid, bitter
taste, and a gravity of 1*047 ; this change will occur in about 15 days.
On evaporating this solution to dryness a peculiar form of gluten is ob
tained in reddish brown transparent gummy masses, smelling like the
brown part of roasted beef, very soluble in water and alcohol. The acetic
acid still contained in this gluten has some effect in rendering it so so
luble in water, but only to a limited extent, as an alkali added to the
aqueous solution causes -j^ths of the gluten to subside, the precipitate
being soluble in alcohol.

    By treating this gluten in a peculiar manner a series of azotized
bodies may be obtained, peculiarly interesting in their properties and
brilliant in their appearance.

    Having obtained the gluten in this way the author inferred the quan
tity of saccharine matter by the alcohol and acid produced, the starch
by the usual separation, and the bran by a hair sieve, drying carefully
at a temperature of 100° : the results of both sets of experiments did not
materially differ, and most of them were further corroborated by a third
series performed in a very large way. Chemists in analysing wheat have
included the starch under one head, and taken no notice of alow-quality
starch which exists in wheat, and which must be separated to render
starch fit for its ordinary uses. This low starch gives a reddish brown
colour with iodine, and a brown jelly with water, but when terrified the
amidine approaches to that from the usual starch. In the following
analyses the small quantity of phosphate of lime existing in wheat is
                     TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                                  75

of course included in the starch experiment. No. 2 was a very plump
English wheat, and all the others were corn of the British empire, some
thin and some plump grains, that sample being fullest which contained
least lignin, and vice versd.

                                      ~s£ si     gl si e -- a8        °»o-a  o:p5.
                                                                 1*1
                                     i|1*1 ·rti                              .CI
                                                 2E E£ S* B-- ss
                                     a 1 «6                           SE

Fine Starch  _              33-45 34'00 3355 3411 32-44 3333 32-80 34-10 31-99 33-39 33-316
Low Starch                   ll'.l 1 9-23 8-90 9-21 10-00 9-11 8-90 9-10 9-87 877 9-243
Gluten                .i..  | 20-56  19-00 2100  18-99 22-09 is- 00 19-66 "Iii-11 23 00 210 22-611
Saccharine and other  J        6-52   6'90
                                                 5-11       6-55 ;-oo 6-11) 5-16 6-419
   soluble matter
Bran or Lignin ....         I 13*43 1270 13-00 12-80 144 13-8 12-90 12-60 14-50 15-00 13-512
Water                       12-56 ID 5 13-00 1370 11-19 12-10 14-11 13-30 10-90 12-00 12-636

   Prom the above it will be seen that the manufacturer would be greatly
deceived if he expected to obtain 60 per cent, of starch, as stated by
some chemists ; he would in fact seldom or never obtain more than 34.

Kirchoff discovered that very diluted sulphuric acid would convert
starch to sugar of grapes, and after long boiling Mr. Jones finds the
concentrated acid will produce this effect immediately.
                                                                           Dry starch
is, by addition of sulphuric acid, instantly converted into charcoal,

and acetic or malic acid can be distilled from the mass ; but if 1 part
of starch be mixed into a paste with 1 part of water, and then 2-J- parts
of sulphuric acid added, the starch is instantly dissolved : the solution
has a temperature of about 200°, smelling strongly saccharine and -Ethe
real, in fact a peculiar aither can be distilled from the solution. When the

solution is diluted, and the acid removed, a light-coloured deliquescent
sugar is obtained ; but only 63-8 parts of sugar are obtained from 100
parts of starch in this way, and it would be interesting to find in what
form of soluble combination the other part exists, and perhaps this in

quiry may tend to show the difference between starch and sugar, and

throw some light            on isomeric bodies.  of  wheat  is  separated  in the humid
    Volatile Liquid.
                            --When the lignin
way, dried at a temperature of 100°, and mixed into a paste with water
to prevent charring, and sulphuric acid is then added in small quan
tities at a time, the bran will be dissolved, and the solution will have a
dark brown colour, and a pleasant aethereal odour ; upon distilling this
fluid a pungent liquid is obtained, smelling of hydrocyanic acid,
though this cannot be detected in the solution. This fluid when rectified
has a specific gravity -9829 and boils at 186° Fahrenheit. When poured
upon caustic lime, the lime slakes and becomes of a bright yellow colour,
which appears to be peculiar to this fluid ; when boiled with lime-water
the solution becomes dark orange ; pure ammonia, potassa, and soda
change the brown liquid to yellow, but not orange ; the property of
changing lime yellow did not exist in the most volatile portion of the
solution only, as the, liquid in the retort after distillation had that pro
perty also. An acid changes the brown to yellow, which an alkali re
stores, showing some analogy to the colouring matter of turmeric. Sup-

                                                                                                    /"'
76 SIXTH REPORT-- 1836.

posing from its slightly reddening litmus, and the colour which origi
nated from its combination with lime, that the fluid might contain a
peculiar acid, the author precipitated the lime with oxalate of ammonia,
thinking if the supposition was correct a coloured volatile salt of am -
monia might be obtained. But on evaporating the supernatant liquid
to dryness and heating to 300°, the colour still remained in a soluble
state. Professor Hare, in a pamphlet he presented to the members of
the Association, observed the tendency of sulphurous acid to change
many volatile oils yellow, and it is not improbable that a portion was
generated in this case as carbon always is produced in distilling the
mixture. The author, strongly suspecting the liquid to contain nitro
gen, though he could not see from what source it was derived, as the
husk of wheat is mere lignin, and chemists assert that lignin does not
contain nitrogen, adduces the following experiment to prove that the
lignin of wheat does contain nitrogen : a portion was successively
boiled in alcohol, water, and muriatic acid, washed and dried ; from

1 12 lbs. he obtained on destructive distillation    1^  lb. of sesquicarbonate
of ammonia. Chemists have observed that                  seeds of the cerealia
                                                   the
contain nitrogen, but Mr. Jones was not previously aware that the
lignin of the wheat contains the same principle. He lias not analysed
the volatile liquid quantitatively, but it contains carbon, hydrogen,

oxygen, and nitrogen.

Notice of Experiments respecting the effects which Arsenic produces on
     Vegetation. By Dr. Daubbny, Professor of Chemistry, Oxford.

    Dr. Daubeny was led to undertake these experiments from having
received a communication from Mr. Davies Gilbert, in which he stated
that there was a district in Cornwall where the soil contained a large
proportion of arsenic, and that no plants could grow in it except some
of the Leguminosa. By analysis, this soil yielded him about 50 per cent,
of arsenic, in the form of a sulphuret, the rest being composed princi
pally of sulphuret of iron and a little silica. He had already ascer
tained that a little of the sulphuret mixed in soils produced no inju
rious effect on Sinapis alba, barley, or beans, and that they flowered
and seeded freely when grown in it. Although the want of solubility
in the sulphuret might be assigned as a reason for its inactivity, yet it
was certainly taken up by water in small quantities, and imbibed by
the roots of plants. Upon watering them with a solution of arsenious
acid, he had found that they would bear it in larger proportions than
was presupposed. The experiments were made and are continued at
Oxford.

On a new substance (Eblanine) obtained from 'the Distillation of Wood.
                                     By R. Scani-aw.

   On a former occasion Mr. Scanlan described a new fluid obtained
from pyroligncous acid, and he now detailed the properties of a new
             TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                        77

substance of similar origin, but solid. It is of yellow colour, insoluble
in water, but soluble in alcohol, from which it separates in long rect
angular prisms. Upon analysis by Mr. Scanlan and Dr. Apjohn it was

found to be composed of ten atoms carbon, five atoms hydrogen, and
two atoms oxygen.

                 On the Insulation of Fluorine. By Mr. Knox.
   Mr. Knox, by operating with vessels of fluor spar, had been enabled
to confine this singular substance and submit it to ocular examination.
He separated it from fluoride of mercury by dry chlorine, and obtained
it in the state of a gas of a deep orange colour.

   Dr. Dalton explained his views relating to Chemical Symbols, and
compared the method of representation which he advocates with the
method of notation sanctioned by Berzelius and other chemists. (See

in this volume the Address delivered by Dr. Daubeny.

   Mr. Babbaqe exhibited a Thermometer recently discovered in Italy,
and supposed to be one of those originally manufactured for the Societa
del Cimento. It appeared to be filled with alcohol. The bulb was
spherical ; the stem was divided into 50 equal parts by beads attached
to it by fusion at equal distances. The scale of these instruments ha
ving been adopted without reference to fixed points fas boiling water or
melting ice), it is a problem of some difficulty to render the results ob
tained by the use of them comparable with the indications of modern

instruments.

    Mr. Babbage stated the progress in this research made by Libri, and
the methods which he had employed for the purpose.

On a modification of the common Bellows Blowpipe. By Wu. Ettrick.

   The author proposed to equalize the unsteady blast of the simple bel
lows blowpipe, by decreasing the usual size of the blower and giving it
a rapid motion by means of a crank and multiplying wheels, turned by

the hand or foot. A valve adjustible to any degree of pressure is placed

on the upper bellows-board.

On a  means  of detecting Gases  present, in small  proportions,  in Atmo
              spheric Air. By                       of Leeds.
                                 William West,

The author proposes, by wind-sails or some similar means, to draw
large measured quantities of air through liquids fitted to combine with
the gases suspected.

   Mr. Lowe exhibited crystals of iron pyrites produced on the clay
which lines the iron pots, used in the manufacture of sal ammoniac.
(See vol. iii. p. 582.)
78 SIXTH REPORT 1836.

                                    GEOLOGY.
  On certain points in Physical Geology. By Wm. Hopkins, F.G.S.

   Distinct approximations to general laws have long been recognised
in geological phsenoinena connected with the dislocations of the crust
of the globe. In districts (as for instance our coal districts) 'where
faults abound, they usually consist of two systems, those in the one
meeting those in the other nearly at right angles, the faults in each
system being approximately parallel. The same observation applies
to anticlinal and synclinal lines, and to longitudinal and transverse
valleys where they appear to be connected with lines of dislocation.
The directions of mineral veins present to us striking approximations
to the same laws ; and further, it is important to remark with respect
to all the phenomena now mentioned, that when they occur in stratified
masses their directions are found to bear distinct relations to the dis
turbed positions of such masses, one system coinciding with the direc
tion of the strike, and the other with that of the dip of the beds.
Mineral veins also (or rather the fissures in which the matter properly
constituting a mineral vein has been deposited) possess many characters
in common. Their depth is uniformly greater than that to which man
has been able to penetrate ; the most productive veins in stratified masses
are in the direction of the dip, the cross-courses in that of the strike of
the beds, the latter being in general of considerably greater and much
more irregular width than the former. The corresponding beds in the
opposite walls of a vein are frequently at different elevations, thus
forming what is called the throw of the vein ; the planes of most veins
approximate to vertically ; insulated masses of the adjoining rock
(termed riders) are often found in them ; and finally, at their intersec
tions they frequently present various appearances of relative displace
ments. Trap and granite veins and horizontal beds of trap are also
phenomena which must be regarded as associated with the elevatory
movements to which the crust of the globe may have been subjected.

    That the appearances of fracture in the earth's crust are not illusory,
but afford certain indications of actual dislocation, it would appear im
possible to doubt in the present state of geological inquiry ; and hence
we are naturally led to the inference that some dislocating force must
have acted beneath the fractured crust, and moreover that its action
must have been general and simultaneous, at least to the extent of the
districts throughout which the phenomena follow the same laws without
breach of continuity. Assuming this to be the case, Mr. Hopkins's ob
ject has been to institute an investigation, founded on mechanical and
physical principles, and conducted according to mathematical methods,
to ascertain how far the phenomena above-mentioned are referrible to
the cause to which we have been led to assign them.

    The author makes no hypothesis in these investigations as to the
manner in which the elevatory force is produced ; he merely assumes
its simultaneous action under portions of the earth's crust of consider
able extent. With respect to the constitution of the elevated mass in its
undisturbed state, it is sufficient for the strict applicability of his re
        TRANSACTIONS OP THE SECTIONS.                                 79

suits, that its cohesive power should vary according to any continuous
law in passing in any direction from one point of the mass to another,
or according to any discontinuous law in passing along a vertical line,
so that a difference of constitution in the successive horizontal strata of

a stratified mass is of no importance. The effects of planes of less re
sistance existing irregularly in the mass are also taken into account.

   Taking a mass thus constituted, Mr. Hopkins investigates mathema
tically the manner in which fissures will be formed in it when subjected
to tensions in assigned directions impressed on it by extraneous forces,
and sufficient to overcome its cohesive power. After thus establishing
various propositions, he proceeds to apply them to the dislocation of
the crust of the earth, the tensions to which the mass is, in this case,

subjected being produced by its elevation and consequent extension.
    One of the first inferences from this theory is that the directions of

dislocation must in general bear definite relations to what may be termed
the actual geological conformation of the disturbed district, i. e., to that
external form which would be presented to us if any one originally un
broken horizontal stratum extending throughout the whole mass were
at present to form its surface. In many cases it is easy to determine
these relations ; in others it is more difficult to do so, particularly in
those in which the disturbed district is of limited extent, and irregular

form and boundary. If there be a distinct axis of elevation, our system

of fissures (always supposing them referrible to the cause here supposed)
will be parallel to it, whether curvilinear or rectilinear ; and if another

system  exist, the fissures composing it  must meet those of the former
system  approximately at right angles.
                                          If there be a distinct centre of
elevation our systems will diverge from it, and another system may
exist concentric about it. The latter kind of elevation will in general
be on a much more limited scale than the former, and may be frequently
superimposed upon it ; and if this kind of double elevation take place at
ouce, a corresponding modification will result from it in the directions
of the fissures. Two or three striking examples of this kind were se
lected by Mr. Hopkins from the mining district of Derbyshire and the
adjoining coal district of Nottinghamshire, which, while they appeared
to offer obvious exceptions to the law of parallelism as usually inter
preted, are strictly in accordance with his theory.

    Another important inference from this theory is that of the simulta
neous formation of any system of fissures such as above mentioned,
far at least as regards the decided commencement of their formation.  as

                                                                      If

there be two systems, they may either have been formed at the same or

at different epochs.
    These fissures must be regarded as the primary phenomena of this

branch of the science. The secondary ones of faults, mineral veins,

anticlinal lines, &c. &c. are easily deducible from them. It is im

possible, however, in a limited abstract to enter into the particulars of
this part of the subject, which may be found in considerable detail in
the author's original memoir, in the Transactions of the Cambridge Phi
losophical Society, vol. vi. part 1 .
    Another view of the phenomena of elevation consists in regarding
80 BIXTH REPORT -- 1836.

the directions and positions of the primary fissures as determined by
a regular structure of the mass (such as the jointed or laminated struc
ture) superinduced previously to its elevation. Mr. Hopkins thought it
highly probable however that if such were the case the dislocations
would be much more numerous in any disturbed district, and much less
continuous than they are observed to be. He wished particularly however
to impress on the minds of geologists that the claims of the two theories,
one of which would assign the directions of the lines of dislocation to the

mode of action of the dislocating force (as explained in his memoir), and
the other to the previous constitution of the dislocated mass, must be
ultimately decided by observation ; and to enable observers to do this,

he begged to direct their attention to two or three points in particular,
wh1ic. hIfmtihgehtl,inepsroboaf bdlyis,locinatimonanywhciacshesw, edeocbidseervthee
                                                                                      question.          por
                                                                                     in the superficial
tion of the earth's crust were determined by the jointed structure which
we now observe in that portion, there must manifestly be, not an ap
proximate, but an accurate coincidence of the joints and dislocations.
Wherever such is not the case, we have an indubitable proof that the
joints in the upper portion of the dislocated mass could not have been so

far developed as to exercise any material influence on the directions of

dislocation.

   2. It may be conceived however that the lower portion of the mass
may have been so far jointed at the period of dislocation as to determine
the directions of fracture in the upper part. To determine the truth of
this hypothesis, the directions of the joints in the primitive rocks should

he carefully examined at points nearest to the observed systems of
dislocation, to ascertain how far this accuracy of coincidence or the
absence of it can be established.     The want of it must necessarily

be conclusive, while its existence is inconclusive evidence as to the
point in question. Further tests must be sought for by examining
the directions of the lines of fracture in the proposed district; whether
for instance they are related to an axis or to a centre of elevation,

or whether they present distinct local de\*iations from the general
law of the  district, connected with  any peculiar local geological con
formation.                            found, it must then be considered
             If such deviations be
how far they are inconsistent with the theory Mr. Hopkins has investi
gated, or with the general laws which careful observation may hereafter
establish respecting the directions of well-developed systems of joints.

It is by these or similar observations, and not by any preconceived no
tions as to the constitution of the dislocated mass, that the question at
issue must be decided.
Mr. Hopkins elucidated these observations by a reference to the
limestone, grit, and coal districts of Derbyshire and Nottinghamshire,
in which two general systems of dislocation are well developed, the one
being N. and S., the other E. and W., but presenting some local devi
ations from this law curiously in accordance with his theory. In the

same districts (more particularly in the limestone) there exist two ex
tremely well defined systems of joints nearly at right angles to each

other, and running very nearly magnetic N. and S. and E. and W.
                    TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                                                      81

These joints therefore cannot     have determined the directions of disloca
tion, while the local deviations  just alluded to, so far as nothing similar
to them has yet been observed      in the directions of joints, offer a strong
proof that the lines of fracture    have not been determined by the joints
of the inferior portion of the    mass, but by the mode of action of the

elevatory force.

        Notes on the Sea Rivulets in Cephalonia. By Lord Nugbnt.
   At the extremity of a rocky promontory, Point Theodori, in the har
bour of Argostoli, streams of water may be observed rushing inland by
means of large fissures ; and Lord Nugent stated that Mr. Stephens had
excavated pits and channels which he had turned to a profitable purpose
by placing a mill in its course. The level of the water appears to be
regulated by the height of the tide, and by the fresh waters which oc-
casionally flow in.

On  the   State of  thMe .DCh.e,mFi.cRa.lST.,hePorroyfeosfsoVrolocfanCichePmhiesntroym, eOnax.on.  By  C.
         Daubeny,

In this communication Dr. Daubeny reviewed the hypothesis of vol
canic action involving chemical principles, and defended the opinion
which ascribes volcanic excitement to the admission of water to the
metallic bases of the earths and alkalis in the interior parts of the earth.

    On Voltaic Agencies in Metalliferous Veins. By R. W. Fox.

   R. W. Fox submitted to the Geological Section an experiment tend

ing to show that the native yellow, or bisulphuret of copper, is convert
ible into the grey sulphuret of that metal by voltaic agency. To effect
this he employed a trough divided into two cells by a mass or wall of
moistened clay. In one of these cells he put a piece of the yellow
sulphuret of copper, and a solution of the sulphate of copper ; in
the other cell a piece of zinc, attached to the copper ore by means
of a copper wire which passed over the clay, and he filled the
latter cell with water. This simple voltaic arrangement quickly
changed the surface of the copper ore from yellow to beautiful iridescent
colours, afterwards to purple copper, and finally, in a few days, to
grey copper, on which metallic copper was abundantly deposited in
brilliant crystals. He considered that the oxide of copper in the solu
tion parted with its oxygen to one portion of the sulphur of the bisul
phuret of copper, thus forming sulphuric acid, which was transmitted
by the voltaic action through the clay to the zinc in the other cell,
whilst the deoxidized copper was deposited on the electro-negative cop

per ore.
    These results seemed to explain the reason why metallic copper is

often found in contact with grey and black copper ore in our mines,
and not with the yellow sulphuret of that metal, and likewise, why the
former generally occurs in metallic veins, nearer the surface and cross
                                     ; in fact, in situations  in which it is
courses  than the yellow  sulphuret
                                     g
   vol.  v.-- 1836.
                   82 8IXTI} REPORT -- 1836.
                     most exposed to the action of fciruginous matter, as indicated by
                     the gossox, and of waters holding salts in solution. T!ie gossan of
                     the Cornish miners is a sort of iron ochre, which usually abounds in
                   copper veins, but not in thc*.e of tin., and Mr. Fox obtained a substance
                   closely rcsemb!<ng it by substituting a solution of the sulphate of iron
                      for the sulphate of copper. He likewise mentioned his having found
                      that when the miniate of tin in solution was placed in a voltaic circuit,
                      a part of the tin accumulated at the negptije no'e in a metallic state, and
                      the remainder at the positive pole in the state, of a pero::idc., the same
                      as it exists in the mines, anc1 he considered that this experiment is cal
                      culated to explain why tin and copper ores to commonly occur in dif
                      ferent veins, or in different parts of the same vein.

                          He alluded to a paper of his which had been read before the Geological
                      Society, in which he referred the definite arrangement of the ores in
                      different rocks to voltaic agency, and assumed that the fact of veins being
                      often found productive of ore in one rock and barren in another might
                      be due to the relative electrical states of tho? e rocks when the deposi
                      tions took place, and he conceived that the prevalence of different salts
                      in solution in the minute fissures of different rocks might, amongst
                      other causes, have tended to generate voltaic currents. The water
                      taken from the mines which he had examined differed exceedingly in
                    the nature and proportions of the saline matter which it contained ; and
                      he had obtained considerable voltaic action by the influence of different
                      ores on each other, such, for instance, as a piece of yellow, and another
                      of grey copper ore, separated by clay which was moistened with water
                         taken from the same mine as the ores were.

                        Mr. Fox thought that the prevailing direction of metalliferous veins
                      might be connected with that of magnetic forces ; the former is nearly at
                      right angles to the present magnetic meridian. He moreover stated his
                    reasons for thinking that the phenomena of the intersections of some
                      veins by others are not incompatible with the contemporaneous forma
                       tion of the original fissures in opposite directions, on the hypothesis of
                       their having undergone a progressive opening ; and he considered that
                       the proofs of such progressive opening abounded in the Cornish lodes
                       and cross courses, the larger veins being commonly divided into smaller
                       parallel veins, having walls resembling the outer walls, between which
                       all were included. Thus he supposed that tin veins were intersected
                       by copper veins in consequence of the latter being less hard than the
                       former, and containing in general more clay and other mechanical
                       deposits, whilst cross courses have still more of such mechanical de
                    posits, and intersect both tin and copper veins ; for if we suppose such,
                       veins, nearly at right angles to each other, to be cracked or further
                     opened, it is evident that the rent in the metallic vein might be rapidly
                       filled up with clay or other matter conveyed into it by the water circu
                       lating in the veins.

v'
               TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                                              83

Remarks illustrative of the Physical Geography of the Pyrenees, parti
         cularly in relation to Hot Springs. By Professor Forbes.

The author attempted to embody in this communication the results,
more paruculo- Iv geological., of a receni tour to the Pyrenees, and which
form part o' a paper recently read to the Royal Society of London.
The intimate relations of hot springs to certain classes of rocks had be
fore been oVervcd and the occurrence of grpnite as characterizing these
thermal oites is so sti iking as not to escape the most superficial observer.
The author remarks in addition that these springs rarely or never ap
pear in the heart of a granite country, but on its borders, or at least
near where stratified rocks occur in contact vs ith granite. He quoted
many examples in proof of the assertion, but one of the most striking
is found in the department of the Pyrenees-Orientales, where an insu.
lated deposit of stratified rock surrounded by granite, has its outskirts
or line of junction studded with hot springs.
Stratified rocks under such circumstances are usually altered in their

texture and composition, and the author shows that even where the
granite does not directly appear its action may be inferred from the
nietamorphic character of the rocks and frequently from the fissures and
cwohnotloertoiofnsChwahrpicehntaieccr'osmp"aBnayregtheast               The author includes the
                                                           character.   or primitive trap slates,
                                                           formation,"

in this class, and to their occurrence attributes the hot springs of Bareges,
St. Sauveur, and Cauteretz. Lastly, he shows that the quantity of
metalliferous deposits in the Pyrenees seems intimately connected with
the occurrence of the hot springs, being their almost invariable conco
mitants. He showed in a tabular view (which will be published in the
Phil. Trans.)  --theHontumspbreirngos,f  coincidences of the five       following coordinate
                                          elevatory or intrusive        rocks, nietamorphic
phenomena :
rocks, lines of fissure and elevation, metalliferous veins.

The author explained the importance which he attaches to an accu
rate determination of the temperature of these springs, and the precau
tions which he observed in order to make them comparable at future
periods with observations which may be then made ; and that the very
few old observations of any value seem to indicate no decided change
of temperature. The principal spring at Bareges cannot have changed
half adegree of Fahr. in a century. The author also noticed the capricious
intermingling of springs of every kind in such a way as to separate
completely the phenomena of mineralization and high temperature. In
some parte of the Pyrenees hot springs of pure water, pure cold springs,
mineral hot springs, and mineral cold springs rise within a few yards of

one another.

On  certain   Phenomena connected        lawitBhecthhee,MFe.tRa.llSif.e, roGu.sS.  Veins  of Corn

              wall. By H. T. De

    Mr. De la Beche brought forward observations on the directions,
breadth, intersection, and other characters of mineral veins ; described
the relations of the veins to the adjoining rocks, and to the natural

                                                            o2
4-8 SIXTH REPORT -- 1836.

divisional planes in them ; and explained the bearing of these data
on the general question of the origin of the fissures now filled by the
mixed or distinct masses of sparry, metallic, and earthy matters which.
constitute mineral veins.

A  BNeodtsicoefoNfotrhfeolkReamnadinSsufofoflkV. eBrtyebEradtwedarAdniCmhalasrlefosuwnodrtihn,  the Tertiary
                                                                                                  F.G.S.Src.

   The author brings forward this paper principally with a view to sub
stantiate the fact that some of the marine fossiliferous deposits on the
eastern coast of England, belonging to the tertiary epoch, contain the
remains of extinct and existing species of terrestrial mammalia, clearly
contemporaneous with the shells and other organic bodies associated
with them.
   In 1835 the author described a newly-discovered bed of fossils sepa
                                                            at various localities in Suffolk,
rating  the  pcrroapgosferodmtothceallLo"nCdoonralclilnaye  crag," suggesting at the same
which   he

time the term "Red Crag" as an appropriate designation for the overlying
ferruginous shelly strata with which geologists were already familiar.
Having never detected the remains of mammalia in either of the above-
named deposits, and believing that the crag of Norfolk was merely an
extension of the upper or red crag of Suffolk, the author, in common with
Professor Phillips and some other geological writers, had thrown doubts
upon the existence of the bones of elephants and other land animals in
the tertiary beds of the former county, believing that their supposed
occurrence probably originated in the erroneous identification of dilu
vium with crag ; the extremely superficial character of the latter, and
the abrasion to which it has in some places been exposed, rendering a
precise separation of the two a matter sometimes of considerable diffi

culty.

   A recent examination however of Norfolk has produced a totalc hange

in the opinions previously entertained by the author upon this subject,
for he finds that not only are the bones of land animals constantly found
in the so-called crag of that county, but that they are of most frequent
occurrence in those particular beds which furnish the strongest evidence
of tranquil deposition; and further, the bones strictly belonging to these
beds of marine origin can be at once distinguished from those of the
overlying diluvial or lacustrine deposits by the peculiar chemical change
which the former have undergone. The list of mammalia enumerated
by the author belonging to the tertiary period includes six or eight
species of rodentia and ruminantia, one of the genus lutra, besides teeth
of the elephant, hippopotamus, and mastodon. Dr. William Smith was
the first who announced the discovery of the mastodon in our own
country, and though geologists have generally refused to place it upon
the list of British fossil pachydermata, the existence of this genus has

recently been most completely established by the researches of Mr.
Fitch and Mr. Woodward of Norwich, and Captain Alexander of Yar

mouth.
                  TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                                       80

The author in the next place proceeds to discuss the relation which
this mammiferous stratum bears to the two tertiary deposits of the ad
joining county, showing that it is not, as he had anticipated, an exten
sion of the red crag of Suffolk, but a deposit altogether distinct from
it and the coralline, differing essentially from both in the number and
nature of its organic contents. Its geographical limits are not confined
to Norfolk, since it may be traced from Norwich to Aldeburgh in Suf
folk, overlying some part of the coral reefs in that most interesting

locality. It may be most advantageously examined in the immediate
neighbourhood of Norwich ; at Southwold, and on Thorp Common near
Aldeburgh. This stratum as regards relative age may be looked upon as
holding a station intermediate to the red crag, and those deposits in

which the testacea appear to belong almost exclusively to existing species
of mollusca.
The beds above the chalk in Norfolk, Suffolk, and Essex may be

grouped into two sections, determined by the presence of terrestrial
                                               of               which in
mammalia      ftohllroowugs h: o--ut  a  part      the series,            descending  order

will be as

1 . Superficial gravel, containing bones of land animals, pro
   bably washed out of stratified deposits.
2. Superficial marine deposits of clay, sand, &c, in which the
shells very few in number (10 or 15 species), may all be
Exaidmenptleifsie. --d wBritichk  such as are now existing.
                                   earth of the Nar, Norfolk.

3. Fluviatile and lacustrine deposits, containing a consider
able number of land and freshwater shells, with a small

proportion of extinct species. (Mammalian remains in great

Locaabluitnideasn. --ce.I)lford, Copford, and Grays in Essex. Stutton in
Suffolk.
4. Mammiferous crag of Norfolk and Suffolk, hitherto con
founded with red crag, containing about 80 species of
                                         extinct species
    shells :  --proBpraomrtieorntoonf    near Norwich ;   undecided.  and  Thorp
Localities.                                               Southwold

in Suffolk.

5. Red crag, containing 150 to 200 species of shells : propor- ,
   tion of    e--xtWinaclttosnpeacineds
Localities.                              undetermined.          ; Felixstow, New-
                                         Dovercourt, Essex

bourn, and Bawdesey, Suffolk.
6. Coralline crag, containing 3 to 400 species of shells : pro

    portion   of  extinct species undetermined.                 (beneath   red
Localities.   --  Ramsholt, Sutton, Tattingstone

crag), Aldeburgh, Orford.
7. London clay.

8. Plastic clay.

   The author next adverts to the remains of birds which he has re
cently obtained on several occasions in the mammiferous stratum of
86 SIXTH REPORT 1836.

crag. The bones, principally belonging to the phalanges, have not yet
been minutely compared with the corresponding portions of skeletons
of existing species. These remains occur at Southwold, and have un
dergone the same chemical change as the bones of mammalia.
   No remains which can be satisfactorily referred to the reptilia have
been discovered in the crag.
    The remains of fish are very abundantly dispersed throughout the
red and mammiferous crag, but are less plentiful in the coralline. Oc
curring only as detached bones, it is not very easy to arrive at any very
                      in      atshefoirlloewxasm:--ination.
satisfactory results  is                                     Their distribution throughout
the three deposits
Mammiferous Crag. -- Bones of the genus Platax in immense numbers ;
several species of the genus Raia, vertebrae of genera totally new to

Agassiz.
   Red Crag.-- Teeth of Carcharias, several species, including C. Megalo-
don of Agassiz ; palates of Myliobatis ; teeth of Lamna, Notidanus,

Galcus.        Crag. -- Genera  undetermined.
    Coralline

On the Fallacies involved in Mr. Ly ell's Classification of Tertiary Deposits
wachcicohrditnhgeytocotnhetaipnr. opoBrtyionEa.teChnaurmlebserwoofrtrhe,ceFn.tGS.Spe. cies(Tohef  Molluaca
                                                                                                   abstract
of this communication has appeared in Jameson's Edinburgh Phil.
t Journal ; and the author has subsequently treated of the subject in
the Phil. Mag. and Annals for January, 1837, and also in the new
Series of Loudon's Magazine of Natural History.

On  certain    Limestones     and associated Strata           in the Vicinity  of Manchester.
                          By                                 F.R.S., 8,c.
                              Professor Phillips,

    The subjects treated of in this Memoir were those members of the
saliferous and carboniferous formations near Manchester which offered
circumstances of interest in the general study of these deposits, or spe
cially important as bearing on a general conclusion presented by the
author, that between Manchester and Shrewsbury a great deposit of
coal probably exists below the new red sandstone rocks, though, from
its want of conformity to these rocks, and the great depth at which only
it could be found, the search for it might be at this moment (inadvisable.

    Referring to the previous notices of thin limestones associated with
coloured marls and inclosed between rocks of red sandstone at Colly-
hurst near Manchester, the author proved by sections and analysis of
specimens, and accounts of organic remains, that these certainly be
longed to the magnesian limestone formation. On the contrary, the
limestone of Ardwick, near Manchester, was proved to belong to the
upper part of the coal formation, and to contain, in its position with
reference to the coal, its fossil remains, mineral composition, and asso
ciated deposits, perfect evidence of identity with the limestone of the
Shrewsbury coal-field, first noticed by Mr. Murchison.
               TRANSACTIONS OF THE SUCTIONS.                                  87

The author having recognised in the Ardwick limestone the same
minute shells
rock, at Le    (Microconchus caSoonarius, Murchison)  which exist in the
               Botwood, Pontesbury, Uffington, &c.    near Shrewsbury,
and found similar plants in the neighbouring shales, and a similar
succession of strata, was induced to visit some localities in Shropshire
to complete his knowledge of the facts before stating his conviction that
the limestones of Shrewsbury and Manchester were deposited in the
same great branch of the sea, under circumstances so very similar as to
render it very probable that they and the coal strata about them were
really parts of a continuous deposit. (The organic remains hitherto
collected by different individuals from these deposits were described by
the author, who ascribes to Dr. Phillips of Manchester the honour of
first recognising the true geological relations of the Ardwick limestone.)

On  the Removal of    large Blocks   or Boulders  fProhmillitphes,  Cumbrian  Moun
                      directions.   By Professor
    tains in various                                                 F.R.S.,  S(C.

This communication was intended to convey information on a subject
proposed by the Committee of the Geological Section at the Dublin
Meeting. Confining himself, for the sake of an accurate induction, to a
case within his own personal knowledge, the author described the geo
graphical and geological features of the North of England, and traced
the distribution of blocks of granite, sienite, metamorphic slates, and
other rocks of the Cumbrian mountains in various directions.

Contemplating this detritus, with reference to its abundance, the
form and magnitude and nature of the masses, the configuration of the
country over which they have been drifted, and the distances which they
have thus reached from their native sites, the author stated as a general
conclusion that in all the ascertained examples the distribution of the
detritus from the Cumbrian mountains was such as no existing watery
agencies could explain, nor any imagined simple relation of the level
of land and sea allow ; but that the phenomena required the somewhat
difficult supposition of most powerful currents of water, guided in their
direction by the general configuration of the land as it now appears,
and assisted in their effect not merely by a single elevation of land,
but by several risings and sinkings. The influence of the existing re
lations of the masses of land on the dispersion of boulders was shown
by examples in the Vale of Eden, the Vale of York, the western border
of Lancashire, &c, and the Pass of Stainmoor, in all which, and many
other cases, the detrital masses were found to be accumulated against

the ranges of high ground, and never to have passed these natural
barriers except at comparatively low points. It was thus evident that
the causes, whatever they were, which produced the phenomena were
not capable of overcoming, except inalimited degree, the natural obstacles
of the country, and this condition must be fulfilled in any satisfactory
theory of diluvial action.
The hypothesis that extensive deposits of detritus, such as there de

scribed, were accumulated before the land was raised above the sea,
88 SIXTH REPORT-- 183G.

would remove much of the difficulty experienced in the study of this
subject, but it appeared not generally applicable to the examples in ques
tion, because of the evidence afforded by ossiferous deposits and caverns
in Yorkshire, that some parts of the country were dry land at the time
of the occurrence of the diluvial floods.

On the Ancient and Modern Hydrography of the River Severn. By R.
                               I. Murchison, V.P.R.S.

On the western side of the Vale of the Severn, Mr. Murchison has ob

served the distribution of coarse gravel to be generally such as implied
local action of water from the N.W. to the S.E., or down the slopes of
the rocks, as they decline from the principal axes of elevation which run
N.E. and S.W., and in the arrangement of the boulders of Cumbrian
rocks which pass in a long line of drift through Lancashire and Cheshire
to the plains of Shrewsbury and the Vale of the Severn, he found reason
to conclude that between the Mersey and the Bristol Channel the waters
of the ocean had flowed in a strait, and there had distributed the de
tritus. This strait must have existed in a comparatively recent geolo
gical period, since the remains of many marine mollusca now living
on the shores of England abound in some of the gravelly deposits on
the line of what is presumed to have been a former channel of the
ocean. In accounting for the position of the great boulders, coarse
gravel and sea-shells, found at different heights, the author expressed
his belief that   they were all   accumulated     under the   sea, and
into dry land    by movements                                intensity.  --coSneveertAebd-
                                 of elevation  of unequal
stracts of the Geological Society's Proceedings.

                 Cave in
J.On       Bone
      the                 Carboniferous Limestone  at  Cefn  in Denbighshire.

                                 By E. Bowman.

The author, referring to a memoir by the Rev. Edw. Stanley in the
Edinb. New Phil. Journal for Jan. 1833, and to a ground plan which
accompanies it, gives the following description of the present state of
the cave. The recent excavations have been carried on in the main
cave about 25 feet beyond D, and as far in the inner lateral fissure,
commencing at 6*. The floor has also been sunk 3 to 4 feet along its
whole extent by the removal of an immense quantity of diluvium and
bone earth, and is now on a level with the entrance. Holes have been
dug in several places down to the solid rock, which was very uneven
and   free from stalagmite in every  instance.
      perpendicular section of the   intruded   matter,  as now laid     bare  at
   A

the inner extremity  of   the main cave, exhibits the  following         appearance,
commencing about          inches below the roof :-- A  series of         innumerable
                     18

thin beds of impalpable silt, some reddish, and irregularly alternating
with others of different shades of pale ochre, slightly micaceous, the

                 * All the references are to Mr. Stanley's ground plan.
TRANSACTIONS OF THB SECTIONS.  89

whole when dry easily separating into laminae, often not thicker than
the -j^th of an inch ; the reddish beds effervesce with acids, but not so the
ochrey micaceous ones. The whole series varies from 18 inches to two
feet and a half in depth in different places, and rests upon a stratum of
marl or clay two feet thick, which imbeds a few water-worn pebbles of
greywacke' and angular pieces of limestone, and a little way from
the top contains some fragments of bone. Lower down the proportion
of the latter increases, so much so that the middle portion consists almost
wholly of a mass of broken and splintered bones much decayed, and
some teeth, closely jammed together by a mixture of clay and commi
nuted bone earth. Among the teeth those of bears, hyaenas, the rhino
ceros, of ruminating animals, and probably of the hippopotamus have
been recognised, and on a few of the broken bones are evident marks of
the teeth of carnivora. This stratum imperceptibly passes below into
another of very compact coarse diluvium of clay and pebbles of clayslate,
with a few splintered bones and broken stalactites, also about two feet
thick and reaching down to the present artificial floor. On breaking
up this floor the writer found a series of beds of coarse and fine sand,

alternating with others of loam and clay, precisely as may be seen on
the bank of a river, but without any bones, pebbles, or shells ; the whole
about three feet thick, and resting on the solid limestone rock.

    Another section at the extremity of the lateral fissure on the right
corresponds in every respect, except that in the middle of the bone
stratum is an additional interpolated series, about 20 inches thick, of the
thin beds of parti- coloured silts, already described, which here contain
a few small pieces of bone, and alternate with other beds of fine cal
careous matter, probably bone earth. This series has also a horizontal
arrangement, and seems to have been deposited by water in a hollow in
the bone stratum.

   Mr. Bowman then describes the strata found below the present floor
in the anterior portion of the cavern, the material that formerly blocked
it up even to the roof having been long since removed. For some yards
round B the floor is a perfectly horizontal layer of stratified stalagmitic
matter, 18 inches to two feet thick ; and below it is a bed of yellowish
ochrey loam, very different to the marly diluvium already described, but
containing, like it, smooth pebbles of primitive rocks, pieces of lime
stone, broken stalactites, with some splintered bones and teeth of car
nivora and ruminantia. It is of uniform complexion down to the solid
rock, a depth of from four to five feet. In another excavation nearer the
mouth of the cave the stalagmitic matter is replaced by sand, but below
is the same ochrey loam, &c, with molar teeth of bears and fragments
of jaws, and a few quartz pebbles ; while in a third, at the very entrance,
about three feet of gravel and coarse sand was found under the loam,
without bones, some of the polished clay slate pebbles being from nine
inches to a foot in diameter. Below is the solid rock slanting inwards
from each side, and about five feet lower in the middle than the foot
path in the front of the cave.

   There are, therefore, at the extremity of the openings, 1st, a series
of fine silts ; 2nd, the marl overlying and passing into the 3rd or bone
90 SIXTH REPORT. 1836.

stratum ; 4th, the lower marl or coarse diluvium with very few bones
5th, the beds of sand, extending down to the limestone rock. Again,
near the entrance are, 1st, the bed of sand and stalagmite forming the
                                                           bottom of the 4th or
present floor, on about  ;  the same level with      the
lower marl just named        2nd, yellow ochrey     loam,  with bones, &c, ex
tending along the vestibule from A to B, and passing down to the solid
rock, but at the entrance resting upon coarse gravel. There is no trace
of the ochrey loam deposit at the upper end of the cave.
The author forbears to speculate further on the above appearances,
than to consider the upper series of fine silts to have been derived from
two different sources, viz., the red and more compact layers from in
filtrations of the decomposed limestone of the cave, and the ochrey mi

caceous and more friable ones from water entering the mouth charged
with a muddy sediment of the decomposed primitive rocks of the neigh
bourhood, and having a common origin with the water-worn pebbles so
abundant within and about the cave. That the valley was occupied by
water to at least the level of the cave before the deposition of the ossi

ferous strata, is proved by the beds of sand and smooth pebbles under
neath. Immense masses of these pebbles, more or less water- worn and
mixed with diluvium, mask the face of the limestone rock in many places,
and lie even on its summit, 40 or 50 yards above the level of the cave.
Appearances about a very picturesquely perforated rock much below it,
show that this diluvium must have been transported hither long subse
quent to the disruption and elevation of the limestone, and that not
simultaneously, for the pebbles still adhere to its irregularly excavated
sides, and there is an intermediate horizontal layer of them of smaller

size.

   The author does not decide whether there are two distinct deposits
of bones, viz., one in the yellow loam under the vestibule, and another
at the upper extremity of the cave ; though the different materials in
which they are respectively found, the disparity of level, and the inter
mediate beds of sand, favour such a conclusion.

From the concave trough-like shape of the sides about the entrance,
as well as from the beds of sand and gravel within, the author infers that
the cave must once have been a water-course ; for the abraded portions
have been scooped out, alternately right and left, precisely in those places
to which, from the opposite projections, the water-borne pebbles would
have been driven with the greatest force.

OnMRaailngenayeds,diaiMtnio.DnCa.ol,ngSalpnoedmcieSersaamtoeuf oethlfeDSuntreudwthclayhm-dbisuDckooyvwe,nre,Ad.nLeS.aSar.u*BriraisntoAl.nimByalsHienntrhye

   The remains about to be described were found in quarrying the brcc-
ciatcd beds of dolomitic conglomerate, which rests upon the highly in-

   * In  March, 1836, a paper  "froAm   the same    authors was read before the Geological
Society  of London, entitled,          description  of various Fossil remains of three di

stinct Saurian animals discovered in the autumn of 1834, in the Magnesian Conglonic
                           TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                             91

clinerl carboniferous limestone at the south-eastern extremity of Durd-
ham Down, near Bristol.

Havinj in the memoir read some time since before the Geological
Society entered into the particular characters of this formation, it is
not necessary here to repeat them further than to show the proofs of
this deposit be:ig formed upon the spot, and not the effect of accumu
lated diift.
    ' In all the dolomitic formations we have been enabled to examine in
this neighbourhood, we find them composed of fragments of the rock
on which they rest. These observations equally apply to the conglo
merate beds of the new red sandstone. For instance, in the quarry
from whence these bones have been recovered, /ragments of the lime
stone only upon which it rests are found. In i.he beds which rest upon
the old red sandstone, such as those of Ham Green, Valley of Kein,
Thornbury, &c, it is found to be composed of quartzose pebbles, frag
ments of friable sandstone, and limestone boulders, in fact the precise
components of the conglomerate beds of the old red sandstone which
they immediately overlie. In the conglomerate or brecciated beds of
the new red, which occur in the New Cut or River, and flank Brandon
Hill, are found pebbles of quartz and of compact millstone grit, pre
cis"elFyroidmentthiecsael  with   the formation of Brandon Hill itself.
                           facts  it naturally follows that the animals were  destroyed

at a period of great local disturbance without transport from a distance

or great movement. If the latter had taken place the bones would
have been distributed over a large space, and. not as now confined to a
spot not exceeding half an acre in extent ; besides which, although

the limestone and bones themselves were dislocated and fractured to a

gre"aTt heaxttentht,e  still there  is no evidence of abrasion.  subtile and  fluid  is
                       magnesian      cementing paste was once
exhibited in all the bones, and beautifully evidenced in a fragment of
jaw which is exhibited to the Section, in which will be seen the sub
maxillary canal, filled as if injected, also the alveoli of the jaw, hollows
of the teeth, &c. That it quickly became viscid and tenacious is also
evidenced by its holding up in its substance the portions of bones and
fragments of limestone even of great weight, while smaller portions had
gravitated to the bottom. In many instances, although the bed of
dolomite is now at this place near twenty feet thick, some of the bones
were found even resting upon the carboniferous limestone itself, and
by careful selection would represent fossils occurring in the last-named

formation."

The authors next describe the various bones which had been col

lected : as the right half of a lower jaw with teeth ; an ulna ; a ra
dius ; a metatarsal bone ; an ungual phalange ; two left ilia ; an is

chium ; a left femur ; caudal vertebra? ; and discuss seriatim their rela
tions to existing and extinct forms of Saurian*.

rate on Durdham Down, near Bristol ; by Henry Riley, M.D., and Mr. Samuel Stutch-
lniry." In the above-mentioned memoir the authors have established two new ge
nera : 1st, Palaosaurus, of which they describe two species, P. cylindrodon, and P.
platyodon; 2nd, The codontosaurus, the species of which they had not designated.
92 SIXTH REPORT -- 1836.

"ThTeo  authors then proceed to        some general views :                        be  necessary         to
        make our present notice
                                        more complete it will

extract from a former memoir the characters exhibited by a section
through the axis of the vertebrae, which exhibit a peculiar form in the
spinal canal. In this section we have a mould of the vertebral or spi
nal canal formed by the matrix showing a very peculiar form in the up
per portion of the annular element, forming the inferior boundary of
the canal. Thus its inferior surface would not be on one level plane
like other vertebral canals, but would present a succession of hollows
or depressions corresponding to the body of each vertebra, for the in
ferior surface would present a concavity to the depth of -A-th of an inch
in "ouIrnstpheicsimweany. the vertical diameter of the canal would, at the middle of
each vertebra, be at least one third more than at either of its points of
junction with the next vertebra : traces of the same peculiarity may
               in other
be."fouIfndwe   retrace  specimens.    shall  find the                    pieces   lately under  review
                         our steps we
                  at least two
pre"seTnotintghe  first belong  types.      vertebrae                     with the chevrons, and the
                                the caudal

two others described immediately after them ; that is, a sacral and first

caudal ; the two ilia and ischium, the large and small femur, and the pha

lan"geTso. the second the series of caudals without chevrons, and the re

ma"inTinhge  bones of the members.     of jaw  with                       the  latter would  be  assu
             association of the piece

ming more than we could prove ; although its characters are more those
of a lizard than a crocodile, yet we cannot show that it belonged to
the same animal, for it might have belonged to another extinct sub
genus of lizard. We must recollect that the blocks of stone in which
these remains are met with, are sometimes so filled with bones that

they would be called osseous breccia by those not aware of their origin.
This is a sufficient proof of the multitude of animals whose remains
are here enveloped in the magnesian conglomerate, and at the same
time a plausible justification of our opinion, that by a careful examina
tion and study of these remains we shall be enabled to make out seve
ral"suItbgisenseirnaguolaf rSathuaritanins,ailnl dtehpeenvedretenbtlryae  of the remains of fishes.
                                                                           hitherto met with in this lo
cality we should find the double concave system only. We have al
ready dilated upon the greater resemblance of the vertebrae to the cro
codilian type than to any other ; we have moreover pointed out analo
                         of     their skeleton.
gie"s  with other parts  of     crocodilian remains                       is both  frequent  and nu
       The occurrence

merous in Great Britain as well as elsewhere : an examination of them
according to their geological position, commencing with those at pre
sent in existence on the surface of this earth, and extending to those
found in the new red sandstone of Guy's Cliff by Mr. Conybeare, and
the instances before us from Durdham Down, will show a regular se
ries of progressive changes in the type of their vertebrae, from the con
cavo-convex of the present day to the same in the newer extinct spe
                      TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                                            93

cies, and thence through the gradually disappearing concavo-convex to
the superficially double concave, and to the deeply concave instances

bef"orIen  us.   lizards,  with  the    exception                 of the monitors,  we have the
            the

sam"eWoerdesrhooufld  phenomena.        a  right              to  conclude  that the double    con
                        therefore have

cave system is more ancient than the concavo-convex, and that the
deep concavity indicates an earlier state of existence than the superfi
cially concave ; seeing that the Durdham Down specimens are more
ancient than those of the chalk, of Honfleur, Caen, Sussex, Monheim,
      Jura, &c.
the"  To carry   &c.   disquisition     further,              to attempt    to show a succession
                 this
of creations or changes from the ichthyoid type to the crocodilians
(ascending as in the diagram), would require an infinitely more pro
fou"ndWaecqnueavinertathnecleesswitthhintkheousrusbejlevcets
                                                              than is at  present  attained.   that
                                                               justified  in the   assumption

the saurian type approaches the ichthyoid by two parallel lines, the one
represented by the crocodiles, the other by the lizards."

                                      Recent Crocodile.

      Lumbar Vertebra.                     First Caudal V.                          Second Caudal V.
            <M SIXTH REPORT -- 1836.

                                                                         New Saurian.

                               Lizards.                          Saurians,      Crocodiles.

Locality.              Type.   Iguanodon,                       S2                                                  Type.    LaeaUf.
Wealdcn.      Concavo-convex,  Mososaurus,                       22             Stencosaurus, Concavo-convex,               Honneur.

Maestricht.   Concavo-convex,                                    =3 =S          Tclcosaurus, Superf. concave,              Caen.

Monheim.      Concavo-convex, Geoaaurus,                       . SKaiuihrouid.  l'lesiosaurus,  ,,                          Lyme.

Stonesficld   fSupercfaivcei,allycon-lj"1w^,,_1,i0i,,losaums,                   Ichthyosaurus, Deeply concave,             ILyme.
andTilgate.j
                                                                                Paleoaannu,     ,,                         Durdhasi

Tilgttc.      ^P^ca^ve,^-tHyJlao*saurus,                                        Thecodontosau-

                                                                                rus,

Thuringia.    Doubtful,        Monitor,

                The Rev. Mr. Clauke stated the existence of two springs on the
            north side of Hales Bay (part of Poole Harbour), whose flow is constant,
            and whose temperature is also constant, day and night, summer and
            winter, at 5l£ degrees of Fahrenheit. The line of junction of these
            springs is parallel to the elevated vertical range of chalk which runs
            through the Isles of Wight and Purbeck.

               Mr. Boscawen Ibbotbon exhibited two models constructed by him
            self ; one of the Principality of Neufchatel, copied from the map of
            Osterwald, and on the scale of ^ an inch to the mile, and the other of
            £ a mile of the Undercliff in the Isle of Wight, on the scale of 3 feet
            to 1 mile.

              A letter from Dr. Mantell was read, accompanying Drawings by

            Mr. Dinkel of various Reptilian Remains.

               A Drawing was exhibited by Mr. Murchison of a remarkably large

            J.unknown Fish in the possession of the Rev. Mr. Noble from the Old

            Red Sandstone of Clashbcnnie in Fifeshire ;* communicated by Mr.
            Robinson, Sec. R.S.E.

               * A drawing of this fish having been forwarded to M. Agassiz, he has named it
            Holopiychus Noiilimmui. A figure and description of it will appear in Mr. Murchi-

            son's new work.
             TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                                                  95

  A letter was read from Dr. Traill referring to some specimens of

fossil fishes from the Caithness schist of the Island of Pomona (Ork
neys), and from Clashbennie, which were exhibited to the Meeting.

A Classification of the old Slate Rocks of the North of Devonshire, and on
the true  position of tfe  C'-lm Deposits               in the central portion              of that
County.    By Professor    Sedgwick and                 Mr. Murchison.

The authors began by observing, that this was a mere outline of a more

detailed memoir on the physical structure of Devonshire, which they
were about to lay before the Geological Society of London. In the
published geological maps of that county the whole system of the
older slate rocks was represented under one colour, without any at
tempt at subdivision ; and one colour also represented different lime
stones, without any discrimination. The object of the authors was to
remedy these defects, to ascertain and represent the true position of
the successive deposits and their natural subdivisions, so as to com

pare them with corresponding deposits in other places. They also
wished to determine the exact place of the remarkable carbonaceous de

posits l f central Devon, which had been previously regarded as belonging
to one of the lowest portions of the grauwacke formation.
   A section was exhibited of part of that county, from the north coast
to one of the granite peaks of Dartmoor immediately south-west of

Oakhampton.
In the ascending order this section exhibits--
1 . A system of slaty rocks, containing a vast abundance of organic
remains, generally in the form of casts. These rocks sometimes pass
into a fine glossy clay slate, with a transverse cleavage ; sometimes
into a hard quartzose flagstone, not unusually of a reddish tinge ; some
times into a reddish sandstone, subordinate to which are beds of inco
herent shale. In North Devon they are very rarely so calcareous as
to be burnt for lime, but in South Devon rocks of the same age appear

to be much more calcareous.

   2. A series of rocks characterized by masses of hard, thick-bedded

red sandstone, and red, micaceous flagstone, subordinate to which are
bands of red, purple, and variegated shales. The red colour occasion
ally disappears, and the formation puts on the ordinary appearance of
a coarse, silicious grauwacke, subordinate to which are some bands of
Iimt piserfseecvterarol ofefientginslathteic. kneIsns,  this series are  very few organic
                                                          occupying the   whole coast from  remains.
                                                                                            the west

end of the Valley of Rocks to Combe Martin.
3. The calcareous slates of Combe Martin and Ilfracombe, of very
great aggregate thickness, abounding in organic remains, and contain
ing in a part of their range at least nine distinct ribs of limestone burnt
for use. This limestone is prolonged into Somersetshire, and appears
to be the equivalent of that on the flanks of the Quantock Hills.
   4. A formation of greenish and lead-coloured roofing slate of great
thickness, and occupying a well-defined zone in North Devon, its upper
beds alternating with and gradually passing into a great deposit of sand
96 SIXTH REPORT -- 1836.

stones of various colours and micaceous flagstones. These silicious
rocks alternate with incoherent slates, and are in some places sur
mounted by great masses of red unctuous shale, which, when in a more
solid form, generally exhibit cleavage oblique to the stratification.
5. The lower part of the Silurian system rests conformably on
the preceding, and on the north-western coast, near Barnstaple, con
taining subordinate beds of limestone. In its range towards the eastern
part of the county it gradually thins off, but its characters are well
preserved, and it contains some characteristic organic remains.

   6. The carbonaceous system of Devonshire ranges in a direction
east and west across the county, in its southern boundary so close to

Dartmoor, that its lower beds have been tilted up and altered by the

granite. It occupies a trough, the northern border of which rests partly

in a conformable position upon the Silurian, and partly upon older rocks,
probably of the division No. 4. Its southern border also rests on the
slate rocks of South Devon *. It everywhere exhibits a succession of
                      In some places it is overlaid by patches of the
violent contortions.
Green Sand formation, and west of Bideford by conglomerates of the
New lied Sandstone. The lowest portion of this vast deposit is gene
rally thin-bedded, sometimes composed of sandstone and shale, with
impressions of plants, sometimes of indurated compact slate, containing
wavellite. These beds are surmounted by alternations of shale and
dark-coloured limestone with a few fossils. Subordinate to these, on

the western side of the county, are thin veins and flakes of culm or an

thracite ; but this is wanting on the eastern side, and the calcareous
beds are more expanded. The higher beds of this deposit are well
exhibited on the coast west of Bideford. These often contain impres
sions of vegetables.
Though in a state of greater induration than the ordinary coal-mea
sures of England, and even in many places destitute of coal, these beds do

not differ from the great productive coal or culm field of Pembrokeshire.

loTsiiafhtrieiottsnoa,ou--trthghefaoronrosmilcdecmrorenirmsnoeecaqkirnusasel no--stntlrytuwhcihtcsuiocrdnehecpl--iuotdsrfeiertdos,mmtsa--tyhaabawtsneidtnfhrcoforemoumtofthhtehesselaitotasryptdieoeccnrleifaiocvbfaecgshreueapfrepearerpcrcoteuedr
to the regular carboniferous series.
In the course of the details a remarkable elevated beach was alluded
to, occupying two miles of coast, on the north side of Barnstaple Bay,
a more special account of which has since been prepared for the Geolo

gical Society.

On the Site of the Ancient City of Memphis. By the Marquess Spinkto.
   The author read a paper, entitled, " A Report of the Attempts made to

ascertain the Latitude of the Ancient City of Memphis :" he considers
the site of this city as having been in the present bed of the Nile, in
latitude 29° 46' north, and longitude 31° 30' east from Greenwich.

   * The authors have since read a Memoir before the Geological Society, on the gene
ral structure of Dcvonsliire, in which the age of the strata of South Devon is pointed
out.
                 TRANSACTIONS OF 1'IIK SECTIONS.                                   97

                 ZOOLOGY AND BOTANY.

An  Account  of  Jtahme esOrgMaancaorftnVeoyic,e   in the  New Holland   Ostrich.  By
                                                           F.R.S., iic.
                                                  M.D.,

   Those who have visited zoological gardens containing the os
triches of New Holland, must have remarked the very singular
sound produced by these animals ; it is a species of grunt, but much
softer than that of the hog, and involving the vibration of so large a
volume of air, that the persons standing near the bird may feel a
tremor communicated to their own bodies. Having had an oppor
tunity of examining the structure of the animal, Dr. Macartney
found that there exists a mechanism amply sufficient for the pro
duction of the extraordinary sound above mentioned. In the middle
of the trachea there is a large opening, directly communicating with a
membranous cell of very considerable extent, which is placed
under the skin of the neck. There is no peculiarity of structure at
the bifurcation of the air tube into the two bronchi, and this part is
only furnished with the two long muscles usually found in the organ
of voice in birds when it possesses the simplest mechanism ; conse
quently the peculiar sound belonging to the New Holland ostrich is
entirely occasioned by the reverberation or resonance produced in
the membranous bag connected with the front of the trachea.

    Several birds of the duck and merganser genera are known to
have the voice modified, and the volume of tone increased by dilata

tions or convolutions of the trachea. It is by a convolution of

this kind that the land rail also is enabled to utter the creaking
sound for which this bird is so remarkable. The neighing of the
horse and the hideous cry of the ass are effected by the addition of
some membranous chambers situated near the exit of the air from

the wind-pipe. In some monkeys there is a membranous bag commu
nicating with the top of the trachea, and the howling baboon has cham
bers composed of bone conjoined with the larynx. The bull-frog, which
is heard to so great a distance, is provided with reverberating pouches ;
but Dr. Macartney is not aware of any example in the class of birds,
except the New Holland ostrich, where the organ of voice is furnished
with a membranous bag for augmenting the sound, nor any instances
amongst the other classes of animals in which pouches are connected
with the middle part of the trachea. The structure of the organ for
producing sound in the New Holland ostrich is therefore considered
to be peculiar to that bird.

    As the animal from whence these observations were made was a male,
the author was inclined to suppose that the peculiarity of voice did not
belong to the female, which is usual in birds ; but he has since ascer
tained that it belongs to both sexes, which is a still further deviation

from common rule.

vol. v.-- 1836.
98 SIXTH REPORT 1836.

On the Fool of the ' Two-toed' RiOlestyri,chM.(DSt.ruthio Camelus). By Henry
   In this communication Dr. Riley showed that the number of toes in

the foot of this bird was the same as that of the Cassowaries and the
Nandua or Struthio Rhea. The difference observable is, that in Stru
thio Rhea the internal toe is fully developed, while in the ' two-toed '
ostrich it is in a rudimentary state, and completely covered and con
cealed by the integuments of the foot. In the specimen exhibited (a
young bird) there was a well defined condyle on the inner side of the
phalangic extremity of the tarsal bone, smaller but similar in all other
respects to the other two heads or condyles, serving the purpose of re
ceiving the first phalanges of the two toes already described by natu
ralists. Articulated with this condyle was a rudimentary toe about an
inch and a half in length, and consisting of two phalanges; the first or
tarsal phalange completely ossified, one inch long, cylindrical, and of
the calibre of a crow's quill. It was articulated with a second pha
lange, not yet ossified, cartilaginous, and barely half the length of the
preceding.

On  the  Manati   or  Cowfish  of the Inland Waters                    of Guiana.  By John
                                 Hancock, M.D.

   This communication contained the author's observations on the na
tural history of the Manati, descriptions of the principal points of its
remarkable organization, and habits of life.

   Mr. Curtis exhibited some specimens of the terminal shoots of a
Pinus which had been attacked by the Hylurgus piniperda, and made
some remarks upon the habits of this insect.

Robert Ball, Esq. of Dublin, exhibited for the purpose of eliciting
information, several crania of a large species or rather genus of Seal,
which had hitherto unaccountably escaped the notice of naturalists as a
native animal, though very common on the coast of Ireland.
   Professor Nilsson of Lund pronounced the crania^to belong to the
Halicharus griseus (synonymous with Pkoca Gryphus of Fabricius),
found in the Baltic, North Sea, and Iceland, and recorded as the type
of a new genus in his Fauna Suecica.

  Mr. Ball also exhibited the skull of a seal taken on the coast of Sligo,
agreeing with the principal descriptions of Phoca Vitulina, and much
lResilsecyompmroodnucethdanthetheskfeolerteognoinogf                   of Ireland ; and
stinct                                                on the shores     in the Severn,    Doctor
fessor                                                a seal captured                    very di
        from the
                  preceding (though                   under the same denomination). Pro
        Nilsson    stated the former                  to be Phoca variegata, and the latter
Phoca annellata, which with P. barbata had long been confounded
under the name of P. Vitulina.

         On Aranea avicularia. By S. Rootsey, M.D.
            TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                    99

On tlte Probability that some of the early Notions of Antiquity were
                  derived from Insects. By Rev. F. W. Hope.
   In  this essay the author has endeavoured, by the aid of the knowledge
now    attained concerning the natural history of insects, to explain the

origin of many remarkable and erroneous opinions prevalent among an
cient nations, such as equivocal generation, the transmigration of
souls, &c.

Notice of Sixteen Species of Testacea new to Scotland. By Mr. Forbes.

Abstract of Dr. Pritchard's Views of the Criteria by which Species are to
  be distinguished in Zoology and Botany. By W. R. Carpenter, Esq.

On the Means of Preserving Animal and Vegetable Substances.  By
                      James Macartney, M.D., F.R.S., SfC.

    When dead bodies were obtained with great difficulty for dissec
tion, Dr. Macartney has preserved them in a state quite fit for the
purpose upwards of two months before the time they were wanted,
by injecting the arteries so forcibly that the cellular system received a
part of the fluid. The compound used for this purpose was a con
centrated solution of equal parts of alum, nitre, and common salt in
water, and an equal quantity of proof spirit, to which, the essential

Joil of lavender or of rosemary had been added in the proportion of

to a quart of the spirit. When dead bodies have been thus prepared
they are rendered incapable of the putrefactive process ; they remain
with an agreeable odour until they dry up or become mouldy, which
may not take place for three or four months.
    When it becomes an object to preserve the whole body or a portion
of it in a dried state, the injection above mentioned, either with or
without the salt, according to circumstances, is to be used. The cu
ticle is then to be removed by scalding with hot water, and the
surface having been washed over with the brown or impure pyrolig-
neous acid, the preparation is exposed to dry air.
    Animal substances thus preserved on becoming dry acquire great
hardness, and shrink but little ; they appear to be perfectly impe
rishable, and more capable of resisting all external influences than the

mummies of Egypt.

   If the injection be made with the salt, the forms fade so little that
the resemblance of the original parts is retained, and if the prepa
ration be coated over with a solution of wax in any of the essential
oils, (which is found to be the best security against the exudation of
the salt,) the part possesses considerable flexibility and softness.
The empyreuma of the pyroligneous acid operates more suddenly
and effectually than the smoke of burning wood, but in the same
manner : thus, fish wiped over with it and hung up to dry, in a very
short time acquires all the flavour and appearance of that cured by
wood smoke, and hams or bacon washed over with the pyroligneous
acid resemble those from Westphalia. For every purpose of preser

            n2
100 sixth uF.roRT-- 1836.

vation Dr. Macartney Las found this acid in the impure state quite

as effectual as the creosote.

Some very curious examples have been met with in Ireland of en
tire bodies being preserved in bogs very perfectly for a period probably
amounting to many centuries. One of these bodies, in the posses
sion of the Royal Dublin Society, was clothed with an undressed
skin only, fastened by a rude skewer in front, a national dress of
which we have no account either by history or tradition. Another

body has been more lately found eighteen feet under the surface of
a bog in the county of Roscommon. It appeared to have belonged to
a female of rank ; the dress was injured in taking it up, but the hair
was tastefully arranged, and ornamented by a pin. Her shoes were thin
and nicely made, with only one seam at the heel, a method of con
struction which Dr. Macartney believes is only met with in Eastern
nations. Some bones which had been taken from a bog, and are in
the author's possession, exhibit a very curious change of composition,
as if they were converted into wood, which appearance they retain even

after being burned. (Specimens shown.)
   The different essential oils have great powers in preventing putre
faction of animal substances, and also of destroying the vegetable
mould which forms on the surface of vegetable infusions and other
fluids. Mr. Carlile has employed for preserving animal jelly or size
a few drops of the essential oil of cloves and of rosemary with com
plete success. No animal matter goes sooner into putrefaction than
size, yet it has been preserved perfectly sweet for more than a year by
the addition of a very small quantity of essential oil : this fact ap
pears very important to scene painters and all artists using what are
called body colours. Dr. Macartney has likewise used essential oils
to prevent the mouldiness of paste and of solution of gum arabic.
   In preparing the dried skins of quadrupeds it is customary to be
smear the inner surface of the skin with an arsenical paste, or with a
solution of corrosive sublimate. Independently of the objection which
exists to the employment of poisonous substances, it has been found
that these means have not been always effectual in protecting the ex
ternal surface of the skins from the attacks of insects. The following
is the process which Dr. Macartney has made use of: the skin in the
first instance is immersed for two or three days in a concentrated so
lution of alum and nitre, which has the effect of partially tanning it ;
next, both surfaces of the skin are wetted with the impure or brown

pyroligneous acid ; this hastens the drying, and when the skin is com
pletely dried it becomes exceedingly hard, and whether from this cir
cumstance, or from the presence of the empyreuma, it is found that
         of any description are not disposed to attack those
insects  stain remain on the hair it may be removed by        so prepared.
                                                              brushing the
If any
surface with camphorated spirits.
It is known to botanists that it is impossible to preserve by the
usual means the forms of massy or succulent plants ; in order to effect
this object Dr. Macartney has employed a method which exceeded
his expectations -, it consists in dipping the flower fresh pulled into
                      TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                         101

a mixture of the finest plaster of Paris and water, made about as
thin as milk, or by coating the parts of the plant carefully with this mix
ture by a camel-hair brush : the plant on drying within this thin shell
of plaster is easily detached, leaving the forms of the stamina, pistils,
and petals in their natural position, with very little change of colour.
Flowers thus preserved retain their peculiar odour for years, from which
last circumstance it appears probable that this mode of drying vege

table productions would be found very valuable if employed for medi

cinal plants, roots, or fruits.

J.On tlte Longevity of the Yew, and on the Antiquity of Planting it in Church

                          yards. By E. Bowman, Esq.

Being curious to ascertain how far the reputed longevity of the yew
would be sustained by an examination of the annual rings of its trunk,
and how far De Candolle's average standard of increase at different
periods of its growth was correct, the author measured the trunks of
18 yews now standing in the churchyard of Gresford in North Wales,
which were planted out in 1726, and found their average diameter to
be 20 inches or 240 lines. By comparing these with the dimensions
of others whose ages are also known, he came to the conclusion that
for yews of moderate age, and where the circumference is less than six
          least two   lines or ^th of an inch of their
feet, at  for annual  increase, and even three lines or  diameter   should  be
allowed                                                            growing  in
                                                          more if

favourable situations. De Candolle says this tree increases little more
than one line in diameter annually during the first 150 years, and a little
less than one line afterwards, and in very old specimens he considers
their age to be at least equal to the number of fines in their diameter.
This average is too high for young yews, and, as will presently be seen,
too low for old ones.

The author described a noble yew in Gresford churchyard whose
mean diameter is eight feet six inches or 1224 line3, and whose age,
by De Candolle's method, would be as many years. Sections taken
from different sides of its trunk contained as follows :

Average number of annual rings "j On the north side. . 43
          Jper inch counted on the hori- >On the south side. . 46
          zontal plane  On the S.W. side. . 15

giving a general average of 34$ rings in an inch of the diameter. As
suming that this yew, when 120 years old, had a diameter equal to the
average of the 1 8 already mentioned, and among which it grows, and
that it continued to increase in the same ratio up to 150 years, and also
making additional allowance for an intermediate rate of increase between
150 and 250 years, we arrive at the following result : at 150 years old
its diameter would be 25 inches, at 246 years old 33 inches, leaving
five feet nine inches of the diameter for subsequent increase, the radius
of which, at 34 rings to the inch, would contain 1173 rings or years'
growth. To this add 246, and its present age will be 1419 years.

   A still greater yew in Durley churchyard, Derbyshire, having a mean

diameter of nine feet five inches, was next described. Sections taken
102 SIXTH REPORT -- 1836.

from its north and south sides gave 44 annual rings in the inch, so that
its radius would contain 2486 such rings, supposing them of equal
thickness throughout ; but making the same deductions as before, its
present age may be estimated at about 2006 years.

   This examination shows the Gresford yew to be about 200, and that
at Darley about 650 years older than De Candolle's standard of one
line per annum of the diameter would indicate, and consequently that
for old trees his average is too low. It also shows that the Darley tree,
with a greater diameter than the other of only 1 1 inches, is 587 years
older, the excess arising from the extreme thinness of its annual de
posits. No precise rule can therefore be laid down, and actual sections
must be resorted to if anything like accuracy be required. Even this
plan is liable to errors, unless sections from different sides of the tree be
obtained, owing to the great and constantly recurring inequality in the
thickness and parallelism of the rings. The same ring often alternately
swells out and contracts several times in the course of its circuit round
the trunk, and groups or fascicles of rings also do so as if by common
consent, while other neighbouring series or individual rings, both within
and without, will be thickest where the first were thinnest, and vice versd.
Other sources of error are also pointed out.

   Mr. Bowman considers the custom of planting the yew in church
yards to be of very high antiquity, anterior even to the introduction of
Christianity. It is well known that this tree was used by our Pagan
ancestors as a substitute for the cypress, both in religious rites and to
place upon the graves of their deceased friends ; it was indeed consi
dered scarcely less sacred than their temples near which it was planted.
On their conversion to Christianity these temples were not destroyed,
but by an express order from Pope Gregory were converted into Chris
tian churches, the better to reconcile them to the change. For the same

reason the sacred yew remained unmolested.

  Abstract of Observations on the Marsiliaceee. By G. Lloyd, M.D.

    Finding in authors many contradictory statements on the nature
of the organs of reproduction in this small but interesting order of
plants, and having last year, for the first time, had an opportunity of
examining Pilularia globulifera, the only British species (since Isoetes is
transferred to the Lycopodiacea?), Dr. Lloyd was induced to endeavour
to ascertain their true nature.

    Without going into a lengthened detail of the structure of the
involucre and its contents, it is necessary to state that when opened it
is found to contain two distinct kinds of seed-like bodies, differing in
size, shape and structure, the larger being the true seeds, and the small
er appearing to perform an office similar to that of the anthers of phse-
nogamous plants. The smaller bodies make no discernible attempt
at germination under any circumstances. The seeds of Pilularia germi
nate when taken from the involucre previous to its natural bursting, and
when entirely separated from the smaller bodies or granules ; so that if
any impregnation be essential to the perfecting of the seed, it must take
place within the involucre, and not after dispersion in water, as some
             TRANSACTIONS OF THE SUCTIONS.                103

have supposed. To determine the manner of germination, some seeds
were placed in water in watch glasses, seeds alone, and seeds with
granules, in separate glasses, and in a few days the seeds appeared
swollen about the apex, which became of a blackish brown colour, and
in a few days more a green point presented itself in a direction vertical
to the axis of the seed and became a leaf. The leaf having attained
about half an inch in length a white radicle appeared in the opposite
direction. When the root had grown about half an inch the young
plants all died, probably from exposure to too much light, and from being
deprived of other advantages which soil might afford. Suspecting this
might be the cause, a glass vessel was nearly filled with mud and water,
which was covered by a bell glass, and a number of seeds placed on the
surface of the mud and others buried a little below : germination soon
commenced, but in this experiment the first leaf proceeded at right an
gles to the axis of the seed. The leaf invariably appeared before the
radicle. In about a week a second leaf and radicle, and again a third
appeared, with a rudiment of an horizontal stem, proceeding from the
point of union between the first leaf and root. The seed or rather the

external covering remained attached to the plants for many weeks.
The number of leaves and roots previous to the appearance of the stem
is uncertain in different plants. The first leaf is perfectly straight from
its first commencement, but all succeeding leaves are coiled after the
manner of the fronds of ferns.

The plants obtained from the latter experiment are still growing,
though indicating no signs of fructification at present.
The embryo in all cases proceeds from one determinate point at the
apex of the seed, which is plainly discernible in the seed in all its
stages of development, at first in the shape of a minute conical point,
gradually contracting and flattening ; and when the seed is matured it
appears like a circular opening closed by minute converging teeth,
through which the seminal leaf protrudes. The circulation of the sap
seems to be carried on chiefly by endosmose and exosmose, as the sub
stance of the stems and leaves consists for the most part of oblong cells
of various sizes, their extremities being closed ; but in the centre of
both stem and leaf may be observed a bundle of vessels of minute
dimensions which appear to be ducts. No spiral vessels could be
detected. Professor Lindley has noticed ducts in Marsilia. The de
velopment of the seminal leaf in Pilularia before the radicle is analogous
to the germination of some of the Cyperaceae, as, according to Mirbel,
in Scirpus sylvaliats, &c. The habit of this plant also resembles some
of the species of that order. When it is considered that so many of the
essential characters of the cellulares do not apply to the Marsiliacese, as
in the plant in question, the embryo proceeding uniformly from a deter
minate point of the seed, the stems and leaves being vascular, and no
other order of the cellulares having a true stem or so perfect an or
ganization, it leads to the conclusion that this order is intermediate be
              monocotelydons and the cellulares,     or at least first among
tween the    as Mirbel and some other continental  botanists have placed it.
the latter,
104 SIXTH REPORT -- 1836.

Abstract  of a Paper  on Alcyonella Stagnorum.  By Thomas Pbidgin
                              Teale, of Leeds.
   In this paper it was stated that from August to November, 1835, the
Alcyonella was found in great abundance in a pond near Leeds, having
never previously been observed in that district. It occurred in masses
of considerable size, incrusting stones, leaves, twigs, earthenware, &c.
The author described the anatomical peculiarities of the polype, digest

ive apparatus, and reproductive system.
The paper was illustrated by drawings, and numerous specimens, and
preparations in spirit.

   A more detailed account of the structure, habits, and literary history
of this zoophyte was read by Mr. Teale before the Leeds Philosophical
and Literary Society, and is published in the fasciculus of Transactions
of that Society.

   The animal was supposed to be new to Great Britain, unless it be
proved, as maintained by Raspail, that Plumatella and Cristatella are
varieties of Alcyonella.

- Mr. Mackay read a       communication he had  "reOcneivtehde  from John Nut-
tall, Esq., of Tittour,                                         management of
                           county of Wicklow,
the Pine tribe," in which he stated that having observed almost all the
plants of Pinus sylvestris and other species, when planted in a light clay
slate soil on exposed situations, grow too rapidly, or out of proportion to
their rooting, and thereby became windwaved, and that those which by
accident had lost their leaders took a strong hold of the ground, he
commenced a series of experiments as follows. In the spring, when

the buds were fully developed, he went over those that were suffer-
ing from the foregoing causes, and broke off all the buds except those
on short branches. By this process their upward growth is checked for
a year, the trunk increases in bulk, and the plant roots much more freely

than if the shoots had been allowed to grow. New buds are formed
during the summer, and in the following spring these plants present the

most vigorous aspect.
The larch he cuts down to a strong lateral branch, on the windward
side, when possible. These soon begin to spread their roots, increase
in size similarly, and ultimately become choice trees. In some instances
he has cut them down a second time, when he found it necessary, and
with equally good effect.

On a new and scandent Species of the Norantia, or Ascium of Guiana.
                               By John Hancock, M.D.

   This species of Ascium, which constitutes a remarkable and splendid
climber (* Bush rope,') in the forests of Guiana, was minutely de
scribed.

Notice of Experiments, now in progress at Oxford,  on the       Effects pro-
   ducedby Arsenic on Vegetation. By C. Dauiibny,               Profcssorof
                                                   M.D.,

Botany, Oxford.
Dr. Daubeny was led to undertake these experiments from having
TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.  105

received a communication from Mr. Davies Gilbert, in which he stated
that there was a district in Cornwall where the soil contained a large
proportion of arsenic ; and that no plants could grow in it except some
of the Leguminosre. By analysis, this soil yielded him about fifty per
cent, of arsenic, in the form of a sulphuret ; the rest being composed
principally of sulphuret of iron and a little silica. He had already as
certained that a little of the sulphuret mixed in soils produced no inju
rious effect on Sinapis alba, barley, or beans ; and that they flowered
and seeded freely when grown in it. Although the want of solubility
in the sulphuret might be assigned as a reason for its inactivity, yet it
was certainly taken up by water in small quantities, and imbibed by the
roots of plants. Upon watering them with a solution of arscnious acid
he had found that they would bear it in larger proportions than was

presupposed.

                      On Caoutchouc. By Professor Royle.

    Professor Royle stated that he had been induced to draw up the sub
stance of the present communication in consequence of a conversation
which he had lately held with the director of an extensive establish
ment for the manufacture of this substance into various articles of com
merce, from whom he learned that the demand at present exceeded the
supply. Professor Royle asserted that, in the East, there might be any

quantity of the article procured from a great variety of plants, if the
natives could only be induced to collect it with sufficient care. The

South American caoutchouc is generally collected with so much greater
care than that from the East Indies that it bears a very much higher
price in the market. - That from the latter country is of excellent qua
lity, but generally much mixed with a considerable quantity of dirt,
bark of the tree, and other extraneous matter. Professor Royle then
enumerated several of the uses to which caoutchouc is now applied, and
stated that the East Indian kind, from its great impurity, can only be
used for the purposes of distilling from it the volatile spirit caoutchou-
cine. At the present time, the article from the East is selling at 2d.
per pound, whilst that from Para fetches from 2s. 6d. to 3s. per ponnd.

It is very remarkable that a substance so incorruptible in water, and so

insensible to a variety of chemical re-agents, should have remained so
long unknown in Europe. Professor Royle then recapitulated the chief
circumstances of its early commercial history, and the method employed
for procuring and preparing it. The substance is probably also pro
duced in the southern parts of China, and is now exported from the
island of Singapore. The Mauritius, Madagascar, Java, Penang, were
then instanced as other localities from whence caoutchouc was obtained,
and reference was made to the manner in which it was prepared in the
latter country. By experimenting upon other species of the same fami
lies as those which were known to contain caoutchouc, it would pro
bably be found that the list of plants from which it could be obtained
might soon be much increased. Professor Royle then mentioned
those families in which it had already been observed to exist in greater
106 SIXTH REPORT -- 1836.

or less proportion. These were, the Cichoracese, Lobeliacese, Apocynete,

Asclepiadeae, Euphorbiaceae, Artocarpeee. It is remarkable that many

plants of the families which yield caoutchouc are characterized by the
strength and tenacity of their fibre, and in tropical countries birdlime
is prepared from plants of the same families. These observations, con
nected with the fact that the silkworm feeds on several plants of the
families which yield the caoutchouc, though otherwise little allied to each
other, induced Mr. Royle to suppose that this substance might possibly
form a necessary ingredient in those plants upon which only they can
feed, and that it was in some way employed in furnishing the material
from which the tenacity was given to their silk. This induced him to
inquire whether caoutchouc existed in their favourite food the mulberry,
and a friend having analysed the juices of this plant, substantiated the
validity of his conjecture.

On the Acceleration of the Growth of Wheat. By G. Webb Hall, Esq.

    The usual period required for the growth and maturity of wheat
(eight, ten, or even more months,) might, according to the results of
experiments conducted by Mr. Hall, be considerably abridged. By
the use of particular seed, planted in a peculiar situation, wheat, sown
early in March, has been ripened before the middle of August. Mr. Hall
is of opinion that, in consequence of the transmission of special quali
ties from plants to their seeds, the seeds of wheat which had ripened in
five months would be more likely to exhibit a like acceleration than
grain taken from plants which had been longer in ripening.

Notice of Crystals of Sugar found in Rhododendron ponticum.  By Pro
                                     fessor Hbnslow.

    Some crystalline fragments of pure white and transparent sugar, re
sembling sugar-candy, and of considerable dimensions, which had been
naturally formed in the flowers of Rhododendron ponticum, were exhibited
by Professor Henslow. There is a minute glandular spot near the base,
and on the upper surface of the ovarium, from whence exudes a thick
clammy juice, which, on desiccation, crystallizes into the substance here
mentioned.

On the Fruits, cultivated and wild, of the Deccan, in the East Indies.
                                 By Lieut. -Col. Stkes.

   The author stated that they amounted to forty-five cultivated (many
of which are found wild also), and twenty-one wild fruits. They were
illustrated by many drawings which were formed from careful measures,
and had scales of length attached to them. The times of flowering and
fruiting were mentioned, and the uses of the various fruits in the arts, in
the general oeconomy of the people ; and, deriving his intelligence from
                  TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                107

several ancient Sanscrit works, the author detailed their medical qualities
according to the opinion of the Hindus ; and enumerated the religious
ceremonies and ideas with which the plants and their products were asso
ciated. He found the Annona, Anacardium, and Carica in universal
cultivation, although they are supposed to be natives of the Western
world. He described what he considered to be the original of the Citrus
family, as abounding in the wild state as a good-sized tree along the
Western Ghauts of the Deccan ; and he stated the wild nutmeg to be
a noble forest tree at the source of the Beema river. Colonel Sykes
gave, also, the names of various fruits in the Mahratta, Sanscrit, and
Hindustanee languages ; and noticed that, wherever a Sanscrit name
was wanting, the probability was that the fruit was not indigenous.

   It appeared there were three kinds of mulberry, the species of one
of which was unknown ; and it was suggested that the Deccan afforded

a fine field for their cultivation, and the profitable production of silk.

On Sugar,  Malt,  and an Ardent Spirit extracted  from Mangel  Wurzel.
                         By S. Rootsey, M.D.

On the Formation of Peat. By Mr. Phelps. {Illustrated by Specimens.)

On Imbibition of Prussiate of Potash by Plants. By Dr. Corbet.

    Many specimens illustrative of particular subjects in Natural History
were presented by Mr. Hope, Mr. Bowman, Mr. Hewitson, Mr. Ball,
Dr. Riley, Mr. Yates, Dr. Tyarck, Mr. Mackay, &c. &c.

                          MEDICAL SCIENCE.

On the Treatment of some Diseases of the Brain. By Dr. J. C. Prichard.

After a general view of the state of knowledge as to the efficacy and
modus operandi of the remedies and methods of treatment usually em
ployed in these diseases, the author gave the following account of a
process adopted in the Bristol Infirmary.
As the means which are within our reach for treating disorders of
the enccphalon are so circumscribed, it appears so much the more ne
                                    in the most
cessary  to endeavour to  aIpapmly  not disposed  efficacious  manner such re
sources  as we possess.                           to believe   that any material

improvement can be made in the ordinary rules for the use of evacuants

or measures of depletion, but I have no doubt that an important ad
vantage may be gained by directing, in a particular manner, the mode
of counter-irritation, and it is chiefly with the view of recommending
this attempt that I have premised the foregoing remarks. Long ex
  108 SIXTH REPORT -- 1836.

  periencc has convinced me that the most efficacious way of applying
  counter-irritation in diseases of the brain is a method not often practised
  in other places, which has been for many years in almost constant use
  at the Bristol Infirmary. An objection would probably arise in the
  minds of those who have not witnessed the application of this remedy
  on account of its apparent severity. I hope to convince the Medical
  Section, and through this opportunity to make more general than would
  otherwise be done, the persuasion that the method of treatment to which
  I refer is by no means so painful or severe a remedy as it might be
  supposed to be, and that it greatly exceeds in efficacy all other means
  by which physicians have attempted to relieve diseases of the brain on
  a similar principle. The application I recommend is an issue produced
  either by means of a soft caustic, or what is much better, by an incision
  over the scalp. The incision is most frequently made in the direction
  of the sagittal suture, from the summit of the forehead to the occiput.
  The scalp is divided down to the pericranium. The incision, when that
  method is used, or the aperture left by the slough, when caustic is em
  ployed, is kept open by the insertion of one or two, or in some instances
  three rows of peas. The discharge thus occasioned is considerable,
 and it obviously takes place from vessels which communicate very freely

 with the vessels of the encephalon. It would appear, d priori, very

 probable that an issue in this particular region, just over the sagittal
  suture, would have a greater effect on the state of the brain than in
  any other situation, and the result of very numerous trials has abund
 antly established the fact. I can venture to assert, that in all those
 cases of a cerebral disease in which counter-irritation is at all an avail
 able remedy, an issue of the kind now described is, next to bleeding, by
 far the most important of all the means which have yet been, or are
 likely to be discovered. The kinds of cerebral disease in which counter-
 irritation is beneficial, include, according to my experience, all those
 complaints which are accompanied by usual stupor or dimitriotical sen
 sibility, excluding all affections, attended by over-excitement, such as
 maniacal and hysterical diseases. In the latter, I believe all such mea
 sures to be for the most part highly injurious.

    A case has lately occurred in my practice at the Bristol Infirmary,
 which strongly exemplifies the efficacy of the treatment which I have
 recommended, and which I have fortunately an opportunity of bringing
 before the Medical Section in the most convincing way. A youth

 about eighteen came into the Infirmary labouring under complete
 amaurosis, which had been coming on gradually for a week or ten days
before his admission. At that time it had become so complete that
vision was entirely lost, and the pupils were totally insensible to light
even when the rays of the sun were suffered to fall immediately into the
open eyes. At first he was freely and repeatedly bled from the arm
and temporal artery, had leeches applied to the scalp, blisters to the
nape of the neck, and took calomel so as to render his gums sore.
Finding that no effect whatever was produced by these measures, I
gave up the expectation which I had at first entertained of his recovering
sight, but was resolvjed to give the remedies a complete trial. I ordered
TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                                     109

him to be bled, ad deliquium. This took place after a small quantity
of blood had flowed from his arm while he was in an erect posture.
After a few days, he was still perfectly dark: an incision was now

made over the sagittal suture from the forehead to the occiput. It
was filled with peas. In three or four days, precisely at the time when

suppuration began to take place, the patient declared that he perceived
light, but was scarcely believed, since the pupils were still widely dilated
and quite insensible to a strong light. In the course of a few days it
was quite evident that he saw ; he could tell when two or three fingers
were held up. For some weeks the iris was still quite irritable, though
vision had become in a great degree restored.

    The subsequent treatment of the case consisted chiefly in occasional
leechings, purging, and low diet : when the issue healed, which was
not till it had been kept open for some months, a seton in the neck was
substituted. Under this treatment the case has terminated in a complete
recovery of the blessings of sight.

Abstract of an Unpublished Work on Tetanus. By James O'Beirne, M.D.
               Surgeon Extraordinary to the King, fyc. 8sC, Dublin.

· Dr. O'Beirne commenced by showing the very extensive opportunities
which he had enjoyed, both in his military and civil life, of observing
and treating this most fatal and mysterious disease, the laborious re
search, and the patient and strictly clinical observation which he had
devoted to the investigation of the subject from a very early period,
particularly for the last fifteen years. He then repudiated all other
species of the malady than the
of which he applied the term    "traautmraautmic aatincd,"  the   idiopathic, to the latter
                                                              as   being more expressive

and scientific. He admitted no such varieties as trismus, tetanus, rectus,

or pleurosthotonos, recognising only opisthotonos and emprosthotonos.
Instead of dividing the latter varieties into acute and chronic, he pro
posed dividing them into the peracute, acute, subacute, and chronic.
He agreed with most authors upon the causes, but considered certain
unknown electrical states of the atmosphere as the most general and

operative. The extreme periods of the accession of the traumatic
species, he stated to be the fourth and seventeenth days from the inflic
tion of the wound, and also stated that it never attacks after the cica
trization of a wound, or during an inflamed state of a wound, and that
it does not supervene upon burns, scalds, military flogging, or other in
juries of the skin which do not penetrate the fascia; or the muscles. He
asserted the general character of the disease to be the same in all
climates and countries, and to have been the same in all ages. He de
nied the existence of any premonitory symptoms, and stated that the

disease is never ushered in or attended by cutaneous eruptions, or by
any febrile symptoms ; that it has no tendency whatever either to crisis

or to sudden disappearance ; and that recovery invariably takes place
slowly, the period varying from eighteen days to seven, eight, and even
nine weeks. After making these and many other novel statements re
specting the attack, course, and termination of the malady, he described,
110 SIXTH REPORT -- 1836.

with great minuteness, all the phenomena of the disease, and the general
laws by which it is regulated, in order to show what constitutes genuine
tetanus ; and, amongst other interesting facts, he mentioned that he has
seen the peculiar tetanic expression of the face retained for fourteen
years. (Here a lithographic representation of the face of a patient,
during and between the tetanic paroxysms, was exhibited to the sec

tion).
   He considered the singular alteration of the countenance to be the

only true pathognomonic sign of the disease, and declared the pheno
mena and laws of this affection to be more uniform and definite than

those of any other. He considered that there were many strong reasons
for believing that the degree of general suffering which the patient

endures, is by no means so great as is universally supposed, or as the
external and very frightful characters of the malady would seem to in
dicate. He then stated, that, after post-mortem examinations made in
several cases of opisthotonos, and which he knew to be genuine, the
only morbid or abnormal appearances were great distension of the
circura and colon, and rigid contraction of the rectum: but that in cases of
emprosthotonos, either the heart or lungs, or both of these organs, were
always found more or less diseased. He next showed the extraordinary
extent to which the disease has been confounded with injuries of the

temple, face, mouth, and pharynx, and with hysteria, rheumatism,
spinal irritation, spinal                                      tonsillaris, and
affection to which he      gaarvaechtnhiteis,nacmyenanocf,he"  pseudotetanus."   a  peculiar
                                                                                    He also

showed how satisfactorily the knowledge of such mistakes explained

numerous perplexing circumstances relating to the pathology and treat
ment of the disease.

Dr. O'Beirne then described the difficulties which he had encoun

tered in founding a correct pathology of tetanus, the means and steps
by which he was enabled to overcome those difficulties, and ulti

mately to arrive at a satisfactory solution of those long contested and
unsettled points, the seat and nature of the malady. He placed its seat
in the substance of the anterior columns of the spinal marrow, and
showed that its nature is purely functional, and consists in either an
accumulated or a peculiarly intense condition of the motific principle
residing in the anterior spinal columns or pyramids, and perhaps their
prolongation to the optic thalami and striated bodies. But he considered
that an affection of the origin of the pneumogastric nerves is super
added in cases of emprosthotonos. The remedial agents which he em
ploys he stated to be tobacco, the gum-elastic tube, and croton oil, and
then mentioned the rules which should guide their employment, and
without a knowledge of which life might be sacrificed at the very mo
ment of success. He next laid before the Section a tabular view of
twenty cases treated upon his plan, from which it appeared that eleven
had terminated in perfect recovery. From this document it also ap
peared that, of the remaining nine fatal cases, one would have been
successful if the use of the tube had been known at the time, while in
six others it was found that the patients had laboured under organic
disease of either the heart or the lungs for a long period previous to
                         TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                                 Ill

the attack of tetanus. He then asserted this amount of success to be
far greater than had ever been obtained, and that the uncomplicated
disease is no longer to be considered as either incurable or mysterious.
Dr. O'Beirne concluded by stating that Mr. Walker, a veterinary sur
geon of Dublin, to whom he had communicated his mode of treating
the disease in man, had succeeded in recovering seventy-three horses
affected with tetanus.

On    the  Cause,        the  Prevention, and         Ft.hRe.SC.u,reSsc.of  Cataract.  By Sir D.

                                  Brewster,

   Having submitted to the Physical Section an account of a singular
change of structure produced by the action of distilled water upon the
crystalline lens after death, Sir D. Brewster was desirous of communi

cating to the medical section some views which this, and previous

observations, have led him to entertain respecting the cause and the
                         cure of cataract.
pre"veTnhtieonchaanngde   of structure to which       I have referred       consists   in the de

velopment of a negative polarizing band or ring between the two posi
tive rings nearest the centre of the lens ; the gradual encroachment of
this new structure upon the original polarizing structure of the lens ;
and the final bursting of the lens after it had swelled to almost a globu
lar"                             of                   distilled
      form by the absorption   floats                   in its   water.     there can be no doubt
      As the crystalline lens                                    capsule
that it is nourished by the absorption of the water and albumen of the
aqueous humour, and that its healthy condition must depend on the
relative proportion of these ingredients. When the water is in excess
the lens will grow soft, and may even burst by its over absorption, and
when the supply of water is too scanty, the lens will, as it were, dry and
indurate, the fibres and lamina? formerly in optical contact will sepa
rate, and the light being reflected at their surfaces, the lens will neces
sar"ilyTheixshdibeiftetchtatinwthhieteheopaaltchityy   which constitutes the common cataract.
                                                      secretion of the aqueous humour, as well

as the disposition of the lens to soften or to indurate by the excess or de
fect of water, may occur at any period of life, and may arise from the
general state of health of the patient ; but it is most likely to occur be
tween the ages of 40 and 60, when the lens is known to experience that
change in its condition which requires the use of spectacles. At this
period the eye requires to be carefully watched, and to be used with great
caution ; and if any symptoms appear of a separation of the fibres or
laminae, those means should be adopted which, by improving the general
health, are most likely to restore the aqueous humour to its usual state.
Nothing is more easy than to determine at any time the sound state of
the crystalline lens ; and by the examination of a small luminous image
placed at a distance, and the interposition of minute apertures and
minute opake bodies of a spherical form, it is easy to ascertain the exact
point of the crystalline where the fibres and laminae have begun to sepa
rate, and to observe from day to day whether the disease is gaining

ground or disappearing.
112 SIXTH REPORT 1836.

" In so far as I know, cataract in its early stages, when it may be
stopped or cured, has never been studied by medical men ; and even
when it is discovered, and exhibits itself in white opacity, the oculist
does not attempt to reunite the separating fibres, but waits with pa
tien"ceCotnilsl idtheerinlegnscaitsarraecatd, y
                                                  to be couched   or extracted.  arises          from  the
                                                 therefore, as a  disease which
                                                 aqueous humour, I
unhealthy secretion       of the                                        have no hesitation in    say
ing that it may be       resisted                 in its early stages,                           may
                                                                        and in proof of this I
adduce the case of my own eye, in which the disease had made consi
derable progress. One evening I happened to fix my eye on a very
bright light, and was surprised to see round the flame a series of brightly
coloured prismatic images, arranged symmetrically and in reference to
the septa to which the fibres of the lens are related. This phenomenon

alarmed me greatly, as I had observed the very same images in looking
through the lenses of animals partially indurated, and in which the fibres
had begun to separate. These images became more distinct from day
to day, and lines of white light of an irregular triangular form afterwards
made their appearance. By stopping out the bad parts of the lens by inter

posing a small opake body sufficient to prevent the light from falling
    it      the vision became perfect, and by placing an aperture of the
upon   it,
same size in the same position, so as to make the light fall only on the
dis"eaBseedinpgarntoowf  the lens, the vision
                         quite aware of the      entirely failed.                of         the  disease
                                                 nature and locality

though no opacity had taken place so as to appear externally,
paid the greatest attention to diet and regimen, and abstained from                              ;

                                                                                                     I
reading at night, and all exposure of the eyes to fatigue or strong
lights. These precautions did not at first produce any decided
change in the optical appearances occasioned by the disease but
in about eight months from its commencement
                                                 a                            saw the coloured

                                                     I

                                                                          a

                                                                       I
images and the luminous streaks disappear in moment, indicating in

the most unequivocal manner that the vacant space between the fibres
or lamina? had been filled up with fluid substance transmitted through
the capsule from the aqueous humour. These changes took place at
that period of life when the eye undergoes that change of condition
which requires the use of glasses, and have no doubt that the incipient
separation of the laminae would have terminated in confirmed cataract
had not been observed in time, and its progress arrested by the means
already mentioned. Since that time the eye, though exposed to the
hardest work, has preserved its strength, and now as serviceable as
Ifhad"                                           I                                                     al it
      ever been.
          the cataract                                                    is
                         had made greater        progress,                    and resisted  the simple
treatment which was employed, should not have hesitated to puncture
the cornea, in the expectation of changing the condition of the aqueous
humour by its evacuation, or even of injecting distilled water or an
buminous solution into the aqueous cavity."

On the Nature and Origin           of                Cancerous and Tuberculous Diseases. By
   Mr. Carmichacl having
                                                 R. Cabmichabl.
                                                 stated that the averaged mortality in these
TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.  113

 islands arising from tuberculous diseases amounts to one-fourth of the
entire population, proceeded to describe the appearances of tubercles in
 the lungs, and entered into a consideration of the prevailing doctrine
respecting their nature, viz., that they are inorganizable bodies consist
ing of lymph of a vitiated character, and analogous in every respect to
the depositions which take place in scrofulous tumours near the surface
of the body, and that therefore those most influential authorities, Clarke,
Carswell, and Todd, insist upon the actual identity of the two diseases.
From this opinion Mr. Carmichael altogether dissents, although willing
to admit that the scrofulous constitution is above all others most dis

posed to tuberculous consumption, and argues from the following facts
that tubercles are parasitic entozooa, in the possession of independent
life, and no further connected with the animal in which they are lodged
than that they draw from it the materials of their growth, which they
imbibe and assimilate by their own innate powers.

    1 . Scrofulous tumours are preceded and attended by more or less
inflammation, which tubercles are not, as is admitted even by those who
contend for the identity of the two diseases.

    2. Tubercles either present the appearance of grey semi-transparent
vesicles, or of round compact granular-like bodies of a medullary ap
pearance, totally unlike the depositions that are formed in scrofulous
tumours ; but when they are clustered together in great numbers they
may be compressed into each other, so as to give the appearance
of an extended inorganized substance, and in such a state may be
moulded into the form of the parts in which they are found ; a cir
cumstance that lias afforded an argument not deemed conclusive by
Mr. Carmichael in favour of the opinion that the tuberculous substance
is nothing more than vitiated lymph or strumous matter.

    3. Tubercles cannot be injected (as was evinced by the prepara
tions laid before the Meeting), while no one will contend that scro
fulous tumours are not easily injected ; therefore, as the former have
no communication by vessels with the surrounding parte, and as they
increase sometimes even to an enormous extent, it is inferred that their

production and growth depend upon their internal powers, by which they
imbibe nourishment from the surrounding parts.

   4. The tuberculous substance, as long as it maintains life, will not
give the stimulus of an extraneous body, as is exemplified by the facts
adduced respecting the Filia medinensis, or Guinea worm ; but when it
dies it causes inflamination and its consequences in the surrounding
parts : the softening process then takes place in the tuberculous sub
stance, which (when these bodies are produced in the lungs) is either
expectorated by its making its way into the bronchial tubes in the
form of a peculiar well known tenacious matter which has neither the
properties of pus nor mucus, or it is absorbed, leaving scarcely more
behind than the earthy particles it contained, which appear in the con
sistence of chalk and water, or soft putty, lodged in a shrivelled carti

laginous cyst.
    5. Pathologists and chemists agree in the fact that a large proportion

of phosphate and carbonate of lime is found in tubercles, and it is
114 SIXTH RKPORT -- 1836.

therefore common to find them at their last transmutation changed into
a mixture resembling chalk and water, or even into solid calcareous or
bony concretions. Now as these substances are not found in coagula-
ble iymph, but are furnished in large quantities in the last transmuted
state of hydatids (acknowledged animals), a strong argument is thus
afforded against the present opinions respecting tubercles, and in favour
of those which the author supports.
    6. By feeding rabbits on unhealthy diet, in damp places where they
are deprived of exercise, hydatids and medullary tubercles will be pro
duced in the course of a few months in the organs of the different cavities.
Doctors Jenner and Baron were thus able to produce hydatids, which
were afterwards transmuted into solid bodies. Mr. Carmichael by a
similar experiment ascertained that medullary tubercles might also be
produced ; and therefore, though he has no doubt but that tubercles are

frequently transmuted hydatids, yet he infers from his experiments that
they are also as often found ab initio in the medullary solid form.
   7. It is only on the principle of the parasitic origin and growth of
the tubercle, that we can satisfactorily account for those enormous
masses of tuberculous growth found in the abdomen and elsewhere,
which are not connected by vessels with the surrounding parts, are not
occasioned by inflammation, and which only destroy the patient by their
increase to an extent that interferes with the functions of the organs
in which they are imbedded or surrounded.
   In a work on cancer, published in 1806, Mr. Carmichael advocated

the independent vitality of that disease. At that period he supposed
      the entire mass was of zoophytic nature. He has
that  there are two distinct substances in the cancerous  now ascertained
that
                                                          mass, --the one

medullary, the other cartilaginous. The first he considers to be the true
entozooa ; the last, which is capable of being injected, is part of the

parent animal, and the barrier which it throws out to protect it from
the progress of this entozooa. In cancer the great bulk of the morbid
growth is cartilaginous ; in fnngus medullaris and fungus nematodes
it is medullary. Hence the more rapid progress and destructive nature
of the latter, which may generally be esteemed as constitutional, or
owing to some fault in the habit ; and hence the ill success attendant
"Ifupon all attempts to remove the disease by surgical operation.
The author observes) :  my views of these diseases are correct
and founded in nature, another, but a lower link will be added to tie
entozooa, which according to Cuvier belongs to the second class of zoo

phytes."
The following species may at present be enumerated :
    1st. Tubercle of the lungs and other parts, whether commencing in
the form of a grey semi-transparent vesicle or of a whitish medullary

substance.

2nd. Masses of tuberculous matter in the abdomen, which either
commence in the hydatid form, or in that of medullary tubercle ; these
are called by Dr. Baron tuberculated accretions.

3rd. Fungus medullaris and fungus nematodes.
4th. Carcinoma.
         TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTION'S.                                                      115

   Under these views Mr. Carmichacl proceeded to offer some general
suggestions on the subject of medical treatment in the diseases discussed,
and referred to a work on scrofula which he had published in 1806.

On  the  Structure  oBfythJeamTeesethM, awcitahrtanneAyc,coMu.nDt .,ofFt.hRe.Spr.o, ceSsrsc  of their
           Decay.

   It is universally known that human teeth are composed of two sub

stances, one which determines the figure of the teeth, and another
superposed on the surface subjected to friction. Anatomists agree in
considering the first of these as the production of the peculiar structure
called the pulp, and the enamel as the secretion of the capsule or mem
branous bag which inclosed the pulp, and the rudiments of the proper
substance of the teeth. All the other natural forms of osseous matter,

whether they be original or provided for reparation, are preceded by a
nidus or preliminary tissue, which is either of a gelatinous or cartila
ginous nature ; for Dr. Macartney has ascertained that the bones of the
cranium are produced, like all the others in the body, by the deposition
of earthy matter in a cartilaginous substance, which is previously formed
between the dura mater and the periosteum of the skull. The teeth
therefore in all essential circumstances differ from common bone, and

more nearly resemble in their mode of growth, and their natural tem
porary existence, the external coverings of the body.

    The pulps of teeth are known to be very vascular, and so sensible
that they are popularly called the nerves of the teeth. When a pulp
is successfully injected with size and vermilion, and examined in a soft

state, it appears of a pink colour, as if it were stained throughout, in

stead of deriving its colour from vessels charged with the matter of the
injection. In this circumstance it differs from the capsule, which ex
hibits, after injection, distinct though numerous red vessels. If, how
ever, the pulp be dried on glass, its fine vessels become so apparent,
that their arrangement can be easily seen. Dr. Macartney has been en
abled to see the disposition of the nerves in the pulp by the same
means he has employed for rendering visible the ultimate arrangement
of the nervous filaments in the brain. Thus if a section be made of the

pulp in a recent state and a solution of alum applied for a few minutes,
and the part examined with a lens, a number of white filaments appear
at the base of the pulp. These coalescejaelow the middle, so as to form a
whitish cloud, from whence more distinct filaments radiate in great num
bers towards the surface of the pulp. This appearance may be considered
as a ganglion of the most delicate structure in the nervous system, and
fully explains the high degree of sensibility possessed by the pulps of
teeth, and also the sympathy which is known to exist between them
and the rest of the nervous system.

    After discovering the structure of the pulps of the teeth, and com
paring it with the inferior degree of organization which belongs to the
capsule, Dr. Macartney is disposed to attribute the irritation which
so often attends the eruption of the teeth to pressure on the pulp,
UG SIXTH REPORT-- 1836.

rather than to the tension of the capsule, against which opinion the
immediate relief obtained by cutting the gum and capsule forms no
argument, as this operation would also have the effect of liberating
the pulp from pressure. When we contemplate the ultimate structure
of the nerves in the pulp, and consider that they are branches of so
complex a nerve as the fifth, we see sufficient cause for the numerous
morbid feelings and actions which may attend the development of
the teeth, and we may admit their connection with this event to the
extent supposed by Dr. Ashburner in his ingenious little work on
dentition.

    In the teeth we have an example of an animal substance resembling
the cartilaginous material of common bone, but placed out of the circu
lation, and apparently carrying on no vital action, yet in immediate
contact with a pulp which is perhaps the most highly organized sub
stance in the body, and adhering on the outside without a vascular
union to the periosteum which lines the alveola of the jaws, and the
vascular structure of the gums, and subject also to a peculiar species of
decay, which is neither like the mortification of living structure, nor
the putrefactive decomposition of the dead. The destruction of the
substance of the teeth by what is improperly called caries, takes place
in the following manner, which it is believed has not yet been accu
rately described by any author. At first a dark green speck is observed
on the enamel. When a section is made of the tooth, the enamel at this
part appears to have lost its animal substance ; it is more porous, has a
more opake white colour, and appears as if it were charred by heat. To
this change succeeds the first step of decomposition in the proper sub
stance of the tooth, which is marked by a greenish streak leading from
the place where the decay began in the enamel, to the nearest part of
the cavity holding the pulp. The enamel afterwards breaks down, and
is lost where it was first affected, and the fluids of the mouth are ad
mitted more freely to the proper substance of the tooth, which becomes
soft, and gradually wears away, until the decay reaches the cavity of
the tooth. The pulp is then exposed, and usually inflames, causing one
species of toothache. Like all other very delicate tissues, such as the
brain and the nerves of vision and hearing, the pulp cannot bear ex
posure and inflammation without sloughing more or less, and when
a part of it is thus lost, it is never repaired, nor properly speaking even
healed. The inflammation of the pulp maybe excited, and kept up by
the slightest external causes, such as contact of foreign bodies or any
unusual degrees of either heat or cold. The tooth-ache is frequently
produced by secret irritations of the sentient surface of the alimentary
canal, or of some other part of the nervous system, and hence it is
sometimes removed by an active purge, by baths, or by strong mental

impressions.

   That the decay of the substance of the teeth is not a vital action, as
supposed by Mr. Hunter and others, is proved by the fact of its taking
place even more readily in artificial teeth, than in those naturally fixed
in the head, whether these artificial teeth be taken from the human
subject or made of the teeth of an animal : and that it is produced by
    TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                                         1 17

the fluids of the mouth is demonstrated by the decay taking place in
those situations where these fluids are longest detained, as between the
natural teeth, and most frequently in the back teeth and in those of the
lower jaw, or on those parts of artificial teeth where the ligature, wire,
or  pivots are employed for
                                fastening them.
    It is diificult to explain                       the  fluids  of the  mouth
                                the manner in which
act on the teeth. It is evidently not by an acidity of the secretions of
the mouth, which would dissolve the earthy part instead of affecting
the animal substance of the teeth. There is every reason for believing
that the state of digestion influences the secretions of the mouth, and
prepares them for acting on the teeth. The qualities of the food seem
to have considerable effect. Some nations, as the Americans and the
French, suffer from decay of the teeth even at an early age, while some
other people scarcely ever lose their teeth by the process of decay.
Mechanic trituration has no effect in producing decay. The inhabitants
of Greenland, who chew the tough skin of the whale, have their teeth
worn to the stumps, which are nevertheless perfectly sound.

On the Chemistry of the Digestive Organs. By Robert D. Thomson, M.D.

   Having shortly reviewed the progress of knowledge on the chemical
actions which take place in the stomach, the author proceeded to the
further consideration of the subject under two heads :

   I. Chemical state of the stomach: 1st, in health; and, 2ndly, in

disease.

   II. The chemical state of the mouth and oesophagus in health and

disease.

   I. 1st. He noticed Dr. Prout's discovery of free muriatic acid in the
stomach during the excitement produced in it by digestion. The author
mentioned the successful repetition by himself of an experiment of M.

Blondelet, in which a substance similar to chyme had been prepared by
digesting muscle in dilute muriatic acid at the temperature of the human
body. He found, on repeating the experiment by digestion at a tem
perature of about 100° in the sand bath during ten hours, the fibre still
retained a portion of its original colour. From these facts it may be
inferred that free muriatic is an important auxiliary in the process of
digestion.

    2nd. The most common departure from the natural state of the sto
mach is a redundancy of acid, occasioned by the introduction of acid
fruits and by the fermentation of vegetable matter. This form of dys
pepsia is sufficiently well known under the common name of heart-burn.
But the author showed that an alkaline state often exists which has
hitherto been unobserved. He showed that pyrosis, or water brash, con
sists essentially of an alkaline secretion, instead of the natural acid se
cretion. A detail of the chemical analysis of the fluid emitted from the
stomach in that disease showed that the alkali present was ammonia,
and probably also free soda : 1 50 grs. were evaporated in a platinum
crucible ; when reduced to one third of its original bulk, the fluid con
118 SIXTH REPORT -- 1636.

tinued to render reddened litmus paper blue, and emitted a somewhat
caustic odour, not an ammoniacal one. When evaporated to dryness,
the residue was white, and covered the bottom of the crucible in the
form of a dried membrane. When heated, it became first red, then black,

and gave out dark fumes and a strong smell of decomposed animal mat
ter. When ignited 0"8 gr remained at the bottom of the crucible in
the form of a white fused mass. Water being poured on the mass, the
whole of it dissolved, with the exception of a few flocks. During the
evaporation the evolution of ammonia was apparent. The nature of this
complaint being thus quite obvious, the treatment consequent upon it is
apparent. The author accordingly has found the employment of acid
an effectual remedy. He recommends, however, when the disease is
of considerable standing, to employ also anodynes, because the nerves
being affected they require a direct application. He has found also that
if the acid treatment is carried further than is necessary to re-establish

the natural secretion, acid dyspepsia is apt to supervene. It is there
fore proper to use in the first instance acid, and then bark or quinine.
He has observed the disease to be excited in many cases by apples and

porter ; but has detected no general laws which seem to regulate the
disease, as it occurs in persons of all ages, and of different constitutions

and countries.
II. 1st. From an extended series of observations the author has de
duced the conclusion that the fluid of the mouth in the natural state is

either alkaline or neutral, generally the former, in conformity with the
results of Dr. Donne- of Paris. This gentleman has observed that when
one of the poles of a delicate galvanometer is placed on the tongue and
the other on the cheek, the needle deflects 15°, 20°, or 30°, in which

case the mucus of the mouth will be the negative side and the skin the
positive side ; consequently the current proceeds from the mouth to the
skin. Hence we have a kind of bile, which is formed by causing an acid
and an alkali to communicate by means of an intermediate body. These
experiments have been repeated and confirmed by Matteucci of Florence.
2nd. The author has confirmed the results of Donne" relative to the

secretions from the mucous and serous membranes being acid in inflam
mation. He has found this particularly in laryngitis, bronchitis, pneu
monia, and in low typhoid fever, as well as in inflammatory diseases.
He found the principal constituent of the membrane deposited in croup
to be a substance approaching nearer to albumen in its properties than
any other known matter, which would give support to the opinion that
                                                         secreted on the surface of
mmoermbbidranperso.ductIsf  are   deposited by the acid  the case, the author sug
                            this  should turn out to be

gested that an excellent method of retarding the formation of the mem
brane in the treatment of croup would be by the inhalation of ammonia.
The author, in conclusion, directed the attention of the Medical Sec

tion to the importance of these facts as features of diagnosis, and also
as pointing out an improved method of practice by the local application
of alkaline solutions, frequently repeated, to inflamed surfaces, as in

gonorrhoea, sore throat, erysipelas, and all diseases where the natural

secretion was alkaline and the abnormal one acid.
                TRANSACTIONS OF THB SECTIONS.                                     119

A  short  Exposition of the Functions            Roef idth,e   Nervous Structure  in the
          Human Frame. By Robert
                                                              M.D., M.R.I.A.

   The principal object of this communication was to enforce the method
of studying the nervous system under three divisions : viz. the gangli
onic, the spiral, and the cerebral systems. Dr. Reid pointed out what
he conceived to be the principal function and province of each of these
systems, and stated his opinion that all diseases should be arranged, and
all remedies selected, according as the latter have their action directed
to, and the former are found to affect one or other of these divisions of

the nervous system in particular.

                On Absorption. By Dr. Carson.

   Dr. Carson, having shortly sketched the history of discoveries on the
subject of absorption, and explained the nature of the questions relating
to the functions of the red veins, lacteals, and lymphatics in this respect,
proceeded to state his view of the operation of the red veins, with refer
ence to the manner in which these veins communicate with the arte

ries. The author contended for an intermediate communication by
means of cells, in all cases ; that into these cells the extreme arteries

poured their contents ; that an extreme capillary artery had two com
munications, one with the particle which it had deposited for a fixed
purpose, and another with the cell or channel common to it with the

corresponding extreme vein, which was to receive the blood not to be

deposited. The extreme vein in like manner had a double communi

cation ; one through the cell with the artery, another with the particle
which had become useless in the system, and which was to be displaced

by that deposited from the artery.
   The change of colour which takes place at this point of union of the
arterial and venous systems, the nature of the motion in the capillary
vessels, the permanence of their tubular character, owing to the resist
ance of their parietes to external pressure, the nature of the changes
taking place in the blood as it passes to the lungs, were then discussed.
The lacteals and lymphatics being shortly noticed as employed in sup
plying nutriment to the system, by absorbing from the alimentary canal
and from other internal surfaces, the author examined the analogous
action of the imbibers to the lungs, stating reasons founded on the me
chanism of respiration for the conclusion, based on experiments, that

all the air which passes the bronchi enters the cavities of the veins and

performs the circulation with the blood, yielding heat and ultimately
nourishment
    Dr. Carson  toobtsheervfersa,m"e. It  would  appear  that the change  or renovation

of the frame is far more rapid than is generally supposed ; that air ex
pired in respiration is supplied by this renovation ; and that the change
must, in the course of any stated period, exceed the whole substance of
the air expired in that period, as there are other channels through which

other matters not so readily evaporable are discharged. It is contended
120 SIXTH RKPOBT -- 1836.

that the process of putrefaction proceeds as rapidly at least before death
as it does after it, but that the products of it are carried off before they
become offensive to the senses."

   The last absorbent process mentioned is that by which the water in
the ventricles of the brain is renewed. That this fluid is constantly in
a state of renovation is certain from the fresh condition in animals that
have been recently killed, and from the smell of substances of a foetid
nature being soon perceived in the water of the ventricles of the brain.
There are no lymphatics in the brain. It would appear that the inter
nal cavity of the ventricles, or the veins of the arachnoid coat, are sup
plied with imbibers, after the manner of the lungs ; and that it is by
these vessels, in connection with the exhalants, that the water of the
ventricles is renewed. As there are no surfaces within the cranium
from which liquids required for the repair of the system could be taken
up, there would he, according to Dr. Carson's views of the uses of the
lymphatic system, no employment for it ; and he regards the total abs
ence of these vessels from the brain as confirmatory of those views*.

On the Gyration of the Heart. By Augustus F. A. Gheeves, Fellow
       of the Royal Colleges of Suregons of Edinburgh and London.

    The following are the propositions which the author endeavoured to

establish :

   1 . Muscular fibres can act as levers without a solid fulcrum, if there
                 of fibres set
be  another set   organ may     at  an angle and contracting simultaneously.
                                be   dilated by the contraction of such an ar
    2. A hollow
rangement of fibres, if in contracting they become more parallel to a
plane passing longitudinally along the axis of the organ.
    3. That there are two spiral, two longitudinal, and one diagonal set
of fibres in the heart interlacing each other.
   4. The ventricles gyrate incessantly to and fro upon their axis ; a. In
systole or involution, as the left hand pronates ; b. In diastole or evo
lution, as the left hand stipulates.
    5. The double spiral curve of the two great arteries forms a compen
sating and regulating movement, causing,
   6. First, a diminution of friction ;

    7. Second, steadiness and celerity of motion, on the principle of the
tilt-hammer ;

    8. Third, an isochronous action, on the principle of the balance-wheel

and spring ;
    9. Fourth, the progression of the whole heart.
    10. That the function of the auricle is to maintain the equilibrium of

the venous system.

    1 1 . The first sound is produced by the sudden tension and sudden

   * See on this subject Reports of the Association, Vol. IV., Transactions of the Sec
tions, p. 92, 93.
              TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.      121

change of gyration, occasioning vibration of the ventricular walls. The
second sound is from flapping of the sigmoid valves.

    12. The impulse is partly caused by the progression, partly by at
mospheric pressure, and chiefly by the left ventricle first gyrating into
the proper position to do so, carrying the apex against the thorax with
a force equal to the difference of strength between the right and left

ventricles.
    13. The pericardium forms a peripherad axis for the motions of the

organ.

On the Functions of the Muscles and Nerves of the Eyeball. By John
            Walkeb, Surgeon to the Eye Institution, Manchester.

   The action of the oblique muscles of the eyeball is explained by Mr.
Walker as rotating the eye inwards, but by opposite rotatory movements ;
so that if the eye were rotated in one direction by the action of one of
these muscles, it would be returned to its former position by the action
of its antagonist ; while, if both muscles were in action together, there
would be no rotation at all, but a direct drawing of the eye inwards.
An explanation of the reason for the complicated muscular apparatus of
the eyeball is afforded in Mr. W.'s opinion by a reference to the arrange
ments of the nerves. The distribution of the third nerve to the supe
rior internal and inferior rectus, and to the inferior oblique, points out
the association of these muscles in all corresponding motions of both
eyes. And the two other nerves (the 4th and 6th) with which the two
remaining muscles, viz. the external rectus and superior oblique, are
severally supplied, are required for the direction of one eye outwards,
while the other is turned inwards, as is the case when even an object is
viewed laterally.

Notice of a   newly -discovered Peculiarity  in  the Structure of the Uterine
                                                 Montgomery, M.D., Pro
    Decidua,  or Decidua Vera. By W.         F.

fessor of Midwifery to the King and Queen's College of Physicians in
Ireland.

   The author confines himself exclusively to a brief notice of a pecu
liarity in the structure of this product ; which, as far as he is aware,
has never been described, although perhaps one of its most important

and interesting features.
    About four years ago, while preparing the component parts of a

human ovum in the third month for lecture, he observed that when the
decidua vera was immersed in water, with its uterine surface uppermost,
there appeared amongst the floating and shred-like processes which
covered it certain small circular openings, which at first he took to be
merely foramina in the membrane ; but on attempting to pass the point
of a fine glass rod through the opening, he found it to be a cul-de-sac,
and being thus incited to ascertain how the matter really was, and ex
amining carefully then, and having repeated the examination frequently
122 SIXTH RBPORT 1836.

since, he has fully satisfied himself and others, who have examined the
part with him, or to whom he has exhibited it in his lectures on em

bryology, both of its existence and peculiar character.
There are on the external or uterine surface of the decidua vera a

great number of small cup-like elevations, which project from it. They
are like little bags, the bottoms of which are attached to or embedded
in the substance of the decidua ; they then expand or belly out a little,
and again grow smaller towards their outer or uterine end, which is in
by far the greater number of them an open mouth, when separated from
the uterus ; how it may be while they are adherent. Dr. Montgomery
does not decide. Their form is circular, or very nearly so, and in size
they vary in diameter from ,v to of an inch, and are elevated to aboutit
                                               -J-
iV of an inch above the surface to which they adhere. In the way of
comparison he would say that they were miniature representations of
the suckers of the cuttle-fish. They are not confined to'any one part of the
decidua, and the author thinks they are usually most numerous and
most distinct in those parts of which are apart from the situation of
the rudiments of the placenta, and at the period of gestation which
precedes the formation of the latter (the placenta) as a distinct organ
hence the best time for examining them up to the third month in
                                                    I                            :
                                                                                        ;
                                                          is
the advanced periods of gestation they are not to be found, at least Dr.
Mo"ntgaommerreyadhyastoncootnsfeesesn                       The author observes further
                                       them then.            am not prepared to offer any:
                                       at once that
I

very decided opinion as to the precise nature or use of these decidual
cotyledons, for to that name their form as well as their situation appear
strictly to entitle them but, from having on more than one occasion
      ;

observed within their cavity milky or chylous fluid, am disposed to
                                       a                             I

consider them reservoirs for nutrient fluids, separated from the maternal
blood, to be thence absorbed for the support and development of the
ovum. This view appears strengthened when we consider, that at the
early periods of gestation the ovum draws all its support by imbibition
and by means of the connexion existing between the decidua and the
villous processes on the surface of the chorion."

An Account Human Twin                                                            of Brain,
   Heart, Lungs, and Liver
   of                                                         which  was devoid  and Cause
                                                                     the Nature
                                   ;

                                           of
                                       Foetuses, one

                                       with Observations on
                                                            By John Houston, M.D.,
oMf.Rth.eI.AC.i,rcuSliact,ioDn ubilnin.such Monsters.

    Dr. Houston's observations were principally directed to the circu:
lating system in the monster, though he described in full the various
anomalous conditions of other organs in its body.

    The placenta was double, with separate membranes and chords for
each foetus the placenta of the imperfect infant was considerably
smaller than that of the perfect one. The points of attachment of the
two chords were several inches asunder.

   The umbilical vein arising from the smaller placenta passed through
the umbilicus, and opened into the vena cava abdominalis, the branches
TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.  123

of which all through the body were totally devoid of valves. The ar
terial system, commencing from the capillary terminations of the veins,
ran together into a central vessel on the front of the lumbar vertebrae,
making there a sort of aorta, like that in fishes, from which two umbi
lical arteries arose, and proceeded in the usual manner to the placenta.
There was no communication between the venous and arterial systems
such as that established in the natural condition by the foramen ovale
and ductus arteriosus. By whatsoever system the blood entered the
umbilicus of the foetus, by the same it must have been distributed through
all the textures of its body.

   A round tumour existed in the substance of the chord outside the.

umbilicus, which during the growth of the foetus had interfered with
the freedom of the circulation : the umbilical vein was varicose between
the tumour and the placenta, and the arteries were similarly affected
from the opposite side of the same point, as far back as the aorta, as
was readily ascertained by a comparison of the sizes of these vessels
before and after they had passed the tumour.

    Reviewing the facts of this case in connection with the published
views of physiologists, Dr. Houston adopts the opinion that the blood
in the placentae and chords of both infants takes the same course, but
that in circulating through their bodies the currents run in opposite di
rections ; viz., that in both it arrives at the placenta by the veins, but
that in the natural infant it is transferred from the umbilical vein to the
aorta by the foramen ovale and ductus arteriosus, to be distributed
thence in the usual manner ; whilst in the monster, in which there is
no such communication between the venous and arterial systems, it is
 conveyed all through the body by the veins, and is returned therefrom

 by the arteries.
     As to the mode of circulation in the body of the monster, it is obvious.

 Dr. Houston observes, that the blood had but one course, and that the
 very reverse of what is usual. Having been conveyed thereto by the
 umbilical vein, it passed into the vena cava, and was distributedby the
 valveless branches of that vessel throughout all the textures of the
 body ; it was there taken up by the capillaries constituting the roots of
 the aorta, and conducted thence out of the body again by the umbilical

 arteries.

On the Pathological Condition of the Bones in Chronic Rheumatism.
                                   By R. Adams, Esq.

   The various changes taking place in the extremities of the bones
which constitute the joints principally attacked by this disease, were
minutely described, and illustrated by interesting specimens, casts, and
drawings.

On the State of the new Circulating Channels in the case of double Pop
                       liteal Aneurism. By R. Adams, Esq.

   Mr. Adams exhibited to the Section a preparation and drawings il
124 SIXTH RKPORT -- 1836.
lustrative of the changes which take place after the operation of tying

the femoral artery, and pointed out some deductions of great importance
to the surgeon which were to be drawn from a knowledge of the ra
pidity with which theanastomosing channels enlarge, with respect to the
proper place of applying ligatures to wounded arteries.

Case  of  extensive  DAanveiudrisJm.   of  the Arteria Innominata and Thoracic  Aorta.
                                      H.
          By Sir                           Dickson, M.D., F.R.S.E., F.L.S.

This paper was accompanied by a drawing of the diseased parts.

On  the   Question whether the Sense of Taste          is dependent on Nerves     from

                 the Spheno-palatine Ganglion.         By Mr. Alcock.

   The statements in this paper were confirmative of the report by Dr.
Hall and Mr. Broughton on the sensibility of the glosso-pharyngeal

nerve.

    On some particulars in the Anatomy of the Fifth Pair of Nerves.
                                 By Mr. Alcock.

   Dr. Howell communicated a case in which a large portion of the

ilium was eliminated from the body, the patient surviving more than
twelve months : it was illustrated by drawings.

The Report of a Committee appointed in Dublin to pass opinion upon a Case
exhibited by Mr. Snow Harris to the Section at the last Meeting
Association was read by Dr. Evanson.                                              of the

   The Committee are decidedly of opinion that this interesting case
was not one of fracture of the neck of the thigh-bone, as had been sup
posed, but an instance of the disease known under the name of '* Mor
bus Coxae Senilis."

On a new  Instrument  fHobrtlitnheg,       removing    of Ligatures at pleasure.  By
                                             Surgeon,  Infirmary, Bristol.
           William

   In consequence of the pain, danger, and delay arising from the pre
sent mode of detaching the ligatures of arteries, Mr. Hetling invented

the simple and easily constructed instrument, of which a description is
appended, and verified its utility in cases which occurred in the Ho
spital at Bristol. He remarks that it is applicable not only to cases
of amputation and aneurism, but to a ligature on any occasion, whether
to an artery, vein, tumour, excrescence, polypi, haemorrhoids, &c, and
that in any unfortunate case of retained ligature, as commonly applied,
it could easily be removed by a slight modification of the instrument.
                    TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                                   125

Description of the Instrument. --It consists of a canula and two sti-
lettes.

   1st. A small silver flat canula, about one quarter of the diameter of
a common female catheter, and like that instrument smoothly rounded
at its extremity, through which a small hole is drilled, large enough to

admit freely the silk thread of the ligature. It is light, and about two
inches and a half long.
2nd. A flat and blunt silver stilette fitted to the tube of the canula,
not quite long enough to reach the eye-hole through which the ligature
passes. This stilette is for the temporary purpose of merely preventing
the tube of the canula from becoming encrusted or clogged with blood,
pus, lymph, &c, &c, till the period arrives for the removal of the ligature.

   3rd. A steel cutting stilette ground to a sharp edge, flat and fitted to

the whole tube of the canula, and extending beyond the hole through
which the ligature has been drawn so as to admit of its dividing the
noose of the ligature close to the knot, which when effected, enables
both the ligature and instrument
   Mode of using it.-- The artery  to come away with the utmost facility.
                                   is to be denuded quite in the usual
manner. The ligature is then to be drawn through the eye of the ca
nula, previously armed with the blunt silver stilette, and then passed
round the artery in the usual way, tying the knot of the ligature close
to the eye of the instrument. The ligature is then to be loosely twisted
once round the canula, and both together left to lie obliquely out of
the wound, as in the ordinary way. The instrument and ligature
are then allowed to remain in this state until the period arrives
for the removal of the ligature, which is easily accomplished by with
drawing the blunt stilette, and introducing in its stead the cutting one.
The ligature and canula are then to oe held together with the left hand,
whilst the cutting stilette is pushed down the canula with the right, till
encountering the noose stretched across its path, the edge cuts it oft' close
to the knot, and the whole comes away without the least disturbance

of the artery, by merely twisting the ligature between the finger and
thumb (as well described by Sir Charles Bell for the removal of a comr
mon ligature), instead of the usual dangerous and painful practice of
pulling and tugging it away with more or less violence.

   Mr. Gordon exhibited a correct anatomical Model of the Human
Body, carved in ivory, upon which he has been engaged for many years.

On the Sensibility  oHf tahell,Gloasnsdo-Sph. aDry.nBgeuaolugNhetorvne,.    By Dr.  Marshall
                                                                          Esq.

    The Committee of the Medical Section at the Cambridge Meeting of
the Association appointed Dr. Marshall Hall and Mr. Broughton to
investigate by experiments the disputed subject of the sensibilities of

the cerebral nerves. A report was accordingly drawn up, and the results
of the investigation were printed in the Transactions of the Association.
To that report the authors have, at present, nothing further to add beyond

a short notice respecting the sensibility of the glosso-pharyngeal nerve.
120                          8IXTH REPORT-- 183G.

   " It may be remembered that this nerve was the only one of the sen
sibility of which no demonstrable account could be rendered, no satis
factory experiment having been made upon it beyond what led to a
mere negative result. It was freely exposed to view in an ass, irritated
and divided, but no response occurred indicative of any apparent func
tion. No muscular fibres were made to quiver by pinching or bruising

the nerve ; nor was any movement indicating pain observed ; and when
it was divided there was no apparent loss of any function. On the
contrary, when the lingual branch of the fifth nerve was irritated,
pain was expressed, and when it was divided, the surface of the tongue
was deprived of tactile sensibility : also, when the ninth nerve was
irritated, no sign of pain appeared, but the muscles of the tongue qui
vered ; and when this nerve was divided, the voluntary motions of the

ton"guTeheweevreidednecsetsrooyef dth, easnednsteheofatnaismtealwewreasnuont ainbvleesttoigautseed  its tongue.
                                                                                                      at all, being
considered as satisfactorily demonstrated by Sir Charles Bell and M.
                                           to the lingual branch of the fifth nerve.
Ma"jeOndf itehetoincboerrreecftenreasbsle  of this hypothesis we never entertained a                doubt
until the appearance in this country of Professor Panizza's details of a
course of experiments of ten years' standing upon the cerebral and spi
nal nerves*. Dr. Craigie's translation of the professor's account of his
labours and results in the Ed. Med. and Surgical Journal is highly sa
tisfactory, and leaves no doubt of the correctness of the experiments

det"ailIetd.has been gratifying to find that our results in reference to our

paper read at the Edinburgh Meeting, stand generally confirmed by
those of Panizza, with the important exception that the professor's
experiments supply the deficiency of ours regarding the glosso-pharyn-
geal nerve, and explain the reason why we could not discover its sen
sibility by simply irritating and dividing it, without reference to the
               function   of the
gus"taTtohrey  professor  found            tongue.            surfaceof  the tongue became
                                           that although the

insensible to mechanical injury when the fifth nerves were divided, yet
the sense of taste remained evidently recognised by the rejection and
preference of certain substances. The ninth pair of nerves also being
divided, the sense of taste continued to be exercised as usual, whilst

the animal was thus deprived of the power of moving the tongue ; and

the glossopharyngeal      '  nerve being divided, no sense of taste                                  was after
wards recognised.            The dog,' says Panizza, ' in which                                     the glosso

pharyngeal nerves were divided, having recovered from the state of
ifdepression in which he was immediately after the operation, (the other
nerves remaining entire,) lapped water, and ate as freely as                                        he had

suffered no injury, and afterwards mastication and deglutition were per
fect ; but he had no other guide than smell in the choice of his food,
so that he stcallowed with the same readiness the most disgusting and the

most noxious, and the most agreeable and beneficial articles, provided
either they did not smell, or their odour was artificially disguised, or

               * See Ed. Med. and Surg. Journal for January, 1836.
             TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                                                                                           127

blended with another agreeable to the animal. The dog ate with equal avi

dity fresh animal food, or that rendered bitter by the same substance. A
morsel of    Ifrleeessxthpeoprfoimuthneednetfeldudidmuiinpnuotntehelyanvoientshsceeorl.lo' --dqougi'n,AlivtinathwseohlisucathimoneI  he eat, and even
                                                                                                                                     time (continues
licked the                                                                                                                           had cut off the
Panizza)
two lingual nerves (branches of the fifth pair), and after swallowing
morsels of flesh with avidity, he swallowed an embittered portion also ;
but it was scarcely in the gullet when he was attacked with vomiting,
and obliged to disgorge it : when it was presented to the dog in which
the glosso-pharyngeal nerve was divided on each side, he ate it imme

gdeiaa"tlelWyneirwtvhieth, roetuhstpeeacpntryotfseoisgstnhoerofsaandyaisstg,oum'sitIc.n'al    distribution  of the                    glosso-pharyn
                                                                                            man, the dog,    &c,                     it is wholly dis

tributed to the mucous membrane of the tongue, and the other parts
which have the sense of taste in common with the tongue, and towards
the base of the tongue, where the nerves are most numerous and the
sen"seNooft
             taste is most  acute.'   of these observations,                                                we were neverthe
             doubting the   accuracy
less desirous of communicating to the Section at the present Meeting
our repetition of Panizza's experiment on the glosso-pharyngeal nerve
and its results, which are quite in accordance with those of the Italian
professor, and thus render our original task more complete. The ex
periment was conducted with great care and caution in the dissecting
rooms of our talented and skilful friend Mr. Lane of Grosvenor Place,

to whose hands, as an independent party, was consigned the necessary
ope"raPtrioenv.iously to the experiment, accurate dissections and surveys were
made of the parts concerned in the intricate distribution of the nerves

about the throat. A small dog of the terrier breed was preferred, with
a long and lanky neck, one central incision sufficing for both nerves :

|the glosso-pharyngeal nerve was divided on each side, and a piece cut

out of about of an inch long. No attempt was on this occasion made
to prove the sensibility of this nerve to pain, as this cannot be so well
effected in a dog as in a horse or an ass, the latter having (in our ori
ginal experiments) been allowed to stand up unconstrained after the

exposure of the nerve, so that any feeling experienced on irritating the
nerve might be freely expressed ; the struggles of an animal held down

forc"ibAlsy  being likely to embarrass the                                                  observations made.                       exhaustion  of
             soon as the dog had recovered                                                  from the necessary
its situation, a piece of meat rubbed over with aloes was offered to it,
which it ate, and it lapped water as usual. The next evening we re-as
sembled, and offered the dog fresh meat, which it eagerly ate. The next
morsel offered was rubbed over with a strong solution of the extract of

colocynth, which he snapped up, but instantly ejected from the mouth,
took it up again, and swallowed it with a little hesitation. Although
the odour of the extract is very slight, we resolved on the next occasion
to use the coloquintida powder, which is quite free from odour, and
also the quinine. A second similarly embittered morsel was however
offered the dog, which he ate unhesitatingly ; a third morsel was smelt
128 SIXTH REPORT 1836.

at and rejected, and so indeed was a piece of fresh meat untainted,
                                            satisfied or yielding to instinctive caution.
his  "aIpnpeatitfeewbedinagys  apparently  assembled and introduced another terrier
                                we again
dog, not experimented upon. Some pieces of fresh meat were cast

before each dog on this occasion, and they both indicated voracious ap
petite. The next morsels were successively rubbed over with quinine,
extract of colocynth, and coloquintida powder : the dog not operated
upon bolted the morsel with the quinine, but rejected the others in suc
cession ; but the dog on which the experiment was performed ate all
the medicated morsels without reserve, exhibiting at several repetitions

some degree of caution and distrust, more than might perhaps have
                 in eating the
bee"n   evinced   stirred up a  sound and fresh meats.    the extract  of colo
                                considerable quantity of
       We then
cynth in a bowl of milk, which the dog not operated on began to lap,
but instantly desisted with an expression of disgust: it was next placed
before the dog operated on, and he instantly and voraciously lapped it all

up." Such has been our experiment on the sense of taste ; and on compar

ing the phenomena mentioned by Panizza with those just detailed, a strict
coincidence is observable. After the division of the nerve no diminution
in the power of protruding the tongue occurred, and the dog could still
lap, masticate, and swallow, and although in possession of the other
nerves of the tongue entire, when the glosso- pharyngeal nerve was di

vided on eanh side, the recognition of the sense of taste was obviously lost,
for substances of disgustingly pungent and bitter flavour, which dogs
will not eat if tasted, were devoured indiscriminately with solid meat

and milk.
   *' We therefore beg to submit to the deliberate consideration of the

Section, whether there be not grounds sufficient to warrant the pre

sumption of that hypothesis being fallacious, which ascribes the specific
sense of taste to the lingual branches of the fifth pair of nerves, and
the power of deglutition to the glosso-pharyngeal nerves ? We feel
that we are fully warranted in acknowledging the conviction to which

Panizza's experiments tend, as to the separate functions and sensibili
ties of the nerves of the tongue, corroborated as they are by our own

obs"erTvhaetionses.nse of taste has never long together enjoyed any fixed locality
amongst the lingual nerves, and each nerve in its turn has been deemed
the gustatory nerve, whilst all three pairs have also been supposed to
be concerned in the propagation of flavours to the sensorium. Latterly,
indeed, the experiments of Sir Charles Bell and M. Majendie have in
duced a train of reasoning which terminated the question in favour of
the fifth pair of nerves being alone concerned in the sense of taste, and
anatomy is referred to in support of this notion ; nevertheless. Pro
fessor Panizza was led to doubt the hypothesis on anatomical grounds,
and his researches confirmed his doubts, he having found this nerve ra
mified upon the mucous membrane of the tongue only. Without, how
ever, entering upon the controversial details of the case, it may be as
well to state, that Mr. Owen, the intelligent comparative anatomist of
         TRANSACTIONS OF THK SECTIONS.                                                                                                               129

the College of Surgeons'              museum, has observed (before be was aware
of Panizza's experiments)              in Dr. Todd's Cyclopedia, in the article upon
awBnihrdidchst,haintthtamhteamhgemlonaselisvaoer-ispchcouuallrldeydndtgihseecaogvluersnetvaavtneoyriysnfernreveeerlvyecodriirnsetrstihpbeountteodndingguaesmwoointhfgbstirtdhthsae,t
soft papilla of the tongue, and lost where the tip in some birds is covered
with n horny cuticle. The glosso-pharyngeal nerve moreover, is not
found in fishes, which have no papilla: for the propagation of taste, but
the organ of smell powerfully developed, and whilst the fifth and the
ninth branches are liberally distributed. In the assumed function of
the glosso-pharyngeal nerve we find a close analogy to the optic nerve
and the retina ; the latter possess no sense of common feeling or tact,
but they are the media of a specific sense exclusively of all other sen
sations, and have no influence upon motion ; and such appears to be
the character of the glosso-pharyngeal nerve.

Anatomy, both human and comparative, appears to corroborate the
notion   toe"frmttahecedtilgelionssesfnous-tpiubhrialeitryyn"g"egatuol stthaneteorlvirneygbu"eai;lngbartatnhtchaheteswshaomicfehtheotuifmgifhetht ,
to be                                                                                                                                                properly
                                                                                                                                                     we may
ascribe                                                                                                                                               and de

glutition and mastication to those of the ninth pair of nerves exclusively.

         MECHANICAL SCIENCE.

On the Theory of British Naval Architecture. By Henry Chatfield,
                                         Naval Architect.

The author, after noticing the general disadvantage under which this
country has laboured from not having applied the principles of science
to ship-building, and the insufficiency of the experiments hitherto made
on the construction and qualities of ships, proposes as a means of re

ducing the theory of British naval architecture to correct principles, to
make it a part of an official system in the department of naval architec
ture to register, in a very systematic manner, the minutest calculations
by which it is attempted to predict a ship's qualities at sea; and to make
an equally systematic arrangement of faithfully oljserved results to which
the calculated predictions refer. Comparisons might thus be instituted
which would tend gradually to the establishment of correct principles
in cases where pure mathematics are insufficient.
Mr. Chatfield contrasts with the precise information which would
                                                      d"atsah,ipwsh' icshailhinavgeqbueaelin
thus be gathered, th? vague notions, rather than
collected in the official reports of what are called
fications" ; replies to objections which have been urged against the at
tempt at numerical precision in recording observations of this nature
made at sea, by showing that the nature of the problems to be solved
requires accurate data expressed numerically ; admits that to prosecute
thevosul.bjevc.t--in18a;'nG.adequate               with a reasonable  chance                                                                         of suc-
                                      manner  and
                                              K
130 sixth REPonT -- 1836.

cess, would be a laborious task ; but shows by reference to the excellent
condition of the science of navigation, that by great attention in col
lecting and classifying facts, the practice of naval architecture might be
raised to a corresponding degree of perfection.

            On certain points in the Theory of Naval Architecture.
                                    By Mr. Henwood.

            On the Tides. By the Rev. W. Whewell, F.R.S.
   In this communication Mr. Whewell explained the state of knowledge

concerning the tide, to which recent investigations had conducted ;
pointed out the importance of a continuous tide register in furnishing
data for the improvement of this important branch of science ; and ex
hibited a model of a tide machine now in the course of erection under
Mr. Bunt's direction.

   Dr. Lasdnbr explained his views of the most advantageous modes
of forming a steam communication with the East Indies and North
America*.

J.On the Application of our Knowledge of the PfuenomenaofSW. aRvuesssteollt.he

 Improvement of the Navigation of Shallow Rivers. By

   John Robison, Esq., suggested, and illustrated by a diagram, a

method of measuring the interval and the velocity of waves at sea, by
two ships kept parallel to and equidistant from each other, and counting
the crests of waves between them.

On  certain points connected with         the Theory  of locomotion.  By
                               Professor
                                          Moselet.

On the Performance of Steam-Engines in Cornwall. By John S. Ents.

   The object of the paper was to point out that within the last few
months the work done (or the duty) per imperial bushel of Welsh coal,
weighing on an average ninety-four lbs. had been more than doubled
as compared with similar engines, by two engines employed in stamping
ore, erected by Mr. James Sims ; and that, making allowance for the
difference of lifting stamp heads (or actual weight) with an uniform
resistance, and lifting a weight of water, calculated from the size of the
pumps, with a variable resistance exactly suited to a high-pressure
expansion engine, a duty of fifty million lbs. raised one foot high per

                   · See on this subject the Edinburgh Review. 1837.
TRANSACTIONS OF THK SECTIONS.  131

bushel of coal might be considered equivalent to eighty millions lifted
in a pumping engine. Taking the quantity of water lately found, chiefly
through the exertions of John Taylor, Esq., to have been evaporated per
bushel, it was shown that the cubic feet of steam which could be
formed by the consumption of the known quantity of coal per month,
would readily supply the quantity of steam required in the cylinder
per month, and be capable of producing at each stroke a mean pressure
in the cylinder equal to the sum of the work done in the pump (that is
the calculated weight of the water), the friction of the pit work, and
the friction of the engine itself.

    The calculations most relied on referred to a large engine, the press
ure of whose steam had been ascertained by an excellent indicator
from the North of England.

   Joseph T. Price of Neath Abbey exhibited the model of a pair of
paddle-wheels which he had fixed on the Lord Beresford steamer at
Southampton, in substitution of a pair of ordinary wheels.

   It has an eccentric wheel fixed to the side of the vessel, in which a

band is placed, having rods leading to cranks on each paddle iron ; these
have each an axis, and hence as the engine moves the shaft and its pad
dle arms, the eccentric with its rods and cranks produces a motion which
ensures the nearly vertical insertion of the paddle board or irons into
the water, and when lifting turn it in like manner nearly vertically,
hereby avoiding the pernicious effects of ordinary paddles, when from
any cause they happen to be wading in water beyond the limit allotted

J.them in smooth water, with the ship in exact trim.

   The effect T. Price described to be great relief to the engine, in
so much that about two thirds the coal would produce an effect in the
speed of the vessel, otherwise under equal circumstances, equivalent to
her former speed, by cutting off part of the steam equal to the reduced

J.resistance of the paddles in the water. The objection to these paddles

   T. Price fully iidmitted to lie in the additional liability to require

repair, and the consequent need of attention ; but he resolved this into
a simple question of expense, and assuming that it mi^ht cost 1 00/ per
annum more to maintain these than the ordinary paddles, which if all
needful spare articles were constantly kept ready, he contended would
suffice for a pair of forty-horse engines (say eighty-horse power), there
appeared to him a clear advantage in their favour in the oeconomy of fuel
or in accelerating the voyages to be performed by the vessel employing

them.

   Mr. Gower described the nature and construction of the boiler used
in the steam-packet Vesta, the bottom of which is covered to a small
depth with mercury, for the purpose of equalizing the distribution of
heat, and regulating the evolution of steam.

k2
132 SIXTH REPORT 1836.

   Mr. Bhaham exhibited an improvement on Pope's fluid compass, by
which he hoped to prevent wear of the pivot and cap, unsteady action,
change of direction in the card, and obliteration of the points stamped
on it.

   Dr. Daubknt exhibited an instrument intended for drawing up water

from great depths.

   Mr.  bHy aJw. kNin. sCoesxshhibaitmed,   and  described    an  improvement  of Napier's
Rods,                                      Esq.  of Bristol.

The invention consists in cutting each of Napier's rods into ten cubes,
and in stringing the cubes together by means of pins passing through
two perforations in each cube, the perforations being made at right an
gles to each other, and parallel to the planes and boundaries of the fi
gured faces, and passing by without crossing the middle of the cube.
By this arrangement the cubes may be readily placed in such positions
that the product may be obtained by addition only, without the necessity

of previously transcribing the number from the cubes, thus avoiding a
great liability to error, and effecting a saving of time in the calculation.

   Mr. John Murbay forwarded for exhibition a model of a life boat
upon a new construction, accompanied by descriptive notices, and a
work printed upon paper made from the New Zealand flax, {Phormium

tenax.)

                                  STATISTICS.

Researches relative to the Price of Grain, and its Influence on the French
   Population. By Baron Dupin, President of the Institute of France.
   In this communication the Baron observed that the small annual va

riation in births, deaths, and marriages, even for years of great difference
of price, induced him to search for a function of these three social ele
ments, which would both render the variations more perceptible, and
correcting one by the other, would remove the perturbations arising
from accidental causes. This function is the mean between the numbers
of births divided by the number of deaths, and the number of marriages

divided by the number of deaths. It is sufficiently obvious that this

function is independent of the amount of population, and the Baron
considered that the magnitude is a very fair test of social prosperity.
He proposed to name it the function of vitality. In the years of extreme
scarcity, the function of vitality averaged 0-5937 ; in the years of high
prices it averaged 0"6092; in the years of intermediate prices it ave
raged 0"6168. He then observed that according to Dr. Cleland's paper,
read on the preceding day, the function of vitality in Glasgow was about
0'7000, a clear proof that social happiness was greater in England than
in France. He trusted that this function would be calculated for the
principal continental nations, and for different epochs, in order to com
pare their social prosperity by a precise and identical standard. As one
      TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.      133

valuable result, he showed that this function was far less in England
during seasons of commercial depression than of agricultural distress.

    [This extract is taken from Dr. Cleland's Statistical Documents re
lating to Glasgow.]

   Mr. Porteh presented the following statement of data drawn up by
himself, for the determining of this function in England :

      Price of Wheat.  Baptisms. Burials. Marriages.

1801  Shillings,       237  204      67
1802                   273  199      90
1803  11511            294  203      94
1810    67-9           298  208      84
1812                   301  ISO      82
1815    57-1           344           99
1822  1032             372  197      98
      122-8                 220

        63-8
        43-3

    Baron Dupin explained two maps of Britain, shaded so as to repre
sent, 1 , the density of population ; 2, the degree of criminality. He
presented tables showing the relative amount of male and female offend
ers, and the relation of criminality to education.

       Report on the State of Education in the Borough of Liverpool,
                                           in 1835-- 1836*.

   This report was communicated to the Section by the Manchester Sta
tistical Society, having been drawn up by a Committee of that Society,
under whose direction the inquiry was conducted. The report has been
published by the Society since the meeting of the Association.

   In collecting the materials for this report, each school of every class

had been visited, and the facts thus obtained by personal inspection and
the testimony of the teachers were classified in numerous tables. The
result proved that the returns made to Government in 1833 were ex
ceedingly defective ; in the parish of Liverpool alone the deficiency
amounting to no less than 13,500 scholars, the returns from the out-
townships being also grossly inaccurate.

    The whole number of children attending the schools in the borough 

Jof Liverpool was found by the Committee to be 33,183, viz.

17,815, or 7 per cent, of the population, attending day or evening
                schools only.

11,649, or 5 per cent, of the population, attending both day and Sunday
                schools.

 If3,719, or per cent, of the population, attending Sundayschools only.

33,183, or 14f per cent, of the population.

                          · See in relation to this subject, vol. iv. p. 119.
134 SIXTH REPORT -- 1836.

    Of this number about 6000 were under 5, or above IS years of age.
Thus 27,200 children between the ages of 5 and 15 were found to be
attending school, whereas it is estimated that there are in the borough
57,500 children of corresponding age (or one fourth of the total popu
lation of 230,000) ; and it consequently appears that 30,300 children
between 5 and 15 years old (or more than half of the whole number of
children of that age), were not attending any schools whatever, at the
time of the inquiry.
    The Report minutely examines the quality and extent of the instruc
tion professed to be given in each class of schools, with the exception
of those where the children of the wealthier ranks are instructed. The

appendix contains a detailed account of the charity schools, which are
numerous. Most of them are connected with the Sunday schools or
congregations of particular sects, the members of which contribute to
defray the expenses of their schools. The Sunday schools themselves
form a very unimportant item in the sum total of the existing means of

education.
    The Committee state in the following general terms the conclusions
    Fwirhsict.h--thOefirthinequwihrioeles
to                                         have led them.
                                           number of children
                                                               in  the  borough  of an age to

be instructed more than one-half are receiving no education in schools,
eitSheecrornedalyll.y--orOnf othmoisnealwlyh.o do attend school, more than one-third are
the children attending dame and common day schools, soii.e of whom
acquire nothing by their attendance at school to which the term educa
tion can reasonably be applied, and the remainder, with few exceptions,
recFeiifvtehlya.n--edTuhceatiroenmaoinf inthge
                                                very lowest   description.   of the children
                                                schools, for  the education
of the lower classes, consist chiefly of charity schools, some of which
have infant, and most of which have Sunday schools attached to them ;
they receive, within their walls, about forty-five per cent, of the whole
number of children attending school in the borough, and are supported,
in great part, by the funds of private individuals. The education given
in these schools is of a more effective kind. The school rooms are

more airy and spacious ; and the teachers are often of a higher and

better educated class, and have stronger motives to the zealous discharge

of Ftuhretilriedru. t--iesT. he result of the Committee's inquiries may be expressed
in the following condensed form :
"12,000 Children of all ages receiving, entirely at the cost of the parent,
                      an education of a very low order.
13,000 Children of all ages receiving, partly at the expense of the

            parents, partly from private benevolence, an education
            more or less effective, but in all cases of some real value

            to the child.

3,700 Children of all ages receiving some little instruction in Sunday

            schools, but no regular education.
4,000 Children of the upper and middle classes, educated in superior

            private schools.

32,700 Children of all ages receiving instruction, of whom 26,700 are
between 5 and 15 years old ; and there are not less than 30,000
children between the ages of 5 and 15 receiving no education in schools
either really or nominally.
                  SSSc                MX -   mm8K  ©
                                                   s»

                  S »- 5   2"a               1* 3
                   fl<9 B
                >2§3       £23
             "
                 1.13!

                  OB< 5 '

c·osJ                      Scr».O2--  = 3.5
                                      t'^"3
M                          Sig
                                             S =§
c                          05© -*            |S
o
c                          g Kg
mo                         £ iS

cq
M

CO                                                                          3

3                                     ftCel SiXi I- CI --

cJ                                               !*<- 2
o

o

<

aooo3en           J
tn
         OO       c
C·n
         Kg

%                                                        32

sg 9-hJ                               T

p                                                          i% ill.

Cfi

H                                                                              8
HU
             cO                       It                                       I£ -:
             n                               s«                                3    *
                                                                               0§5
             uo.                             33 Jq                             M
                                                                               s

                                                              .«2 £*,,-"-3     1
                                      ·3 111
                                                                               I
                                           Sill.
                           « 91                                                en "5
                           |°us                                                     I
                                                                               i
                           fill                                                     &

                                                                               5<
   136          SIXTH REPORT 183G.

   COMPARATIVE STATEMENT OF THE                    IN THE BOROUOHS                &       IN THE BOROUGH
   NUMBERS RECEIVING INSTRUCTION                   OF MANCHESTER                       1   OF LIVERPOOL.

                                                     SALFORD, 18S4.5.                                1835-36.

                                                                Per Crntagc.                    Per Ccnlage.

                                                   gf£SO        Of the     Of the                Of the     Of the
                                                          I, ' total Po-     total              toul Po      total
                                                              'pulation   number                pulation   number
                                                                estima-   of Scho                estima    of Scho
                                                                 ted at      lars.                            lars.
                                                                255,000.                         ted at
                                                                                                 230,000.

   Attending Day or Evening Schools only           32:1               MO 23-56
   Attending both Day or Evening and Sunday        !                                    17815   775 53-69
        .'.                                               i             '_·!·.            1619              35-10
      SchooU                                                        :.
   Attending Sunday Schools only..                                                      2tfJ6l
                                                   261)60       110-16    4/-45          3719   12-81) 8879
                                                   29529          158     52*55                   1-62 11-21

   Number of Scholars estimated to be under five   56189                                33183
      or above fifteen years of age                12000                                 6O00

   Children between five and fifteen years of age  63750                            27183
      attending SchooU                                                              575O0

   Estimate of the total number of Children in
      the boroughs between five and fifteen years
      old

   Estimated number of Children between five         10561                          30317
      and fifteen years old, not receiving any in  30 7pc                           52-7 pc
      struction at Schools

   Proportion which the number of Children
     between five and fifteen, receiving no in.
      strvction at School, bears to the total num
     ber of Children between the same ages
             of                                                                            I
                                     .'
   On the Statistics Popular Education in Bristol, liy C. B. Fbipp, Esq.                         is
                                                                                                                   a
   After some general remarks on the importance of statistical inquiries
   into the state of education in the different towns of the kingdom, with
   the view of comparing their condition in this respect, and of illustrating
   the deficiencies which exist in our present means of instruction, the

   author stated that, as the hest means his power of obtaining the rein

   quisite information in Bristol, he had addressed eighty circulars to the
   clergy and other ministers of religion, soliciting their replies to various
   queries annexed in schedule. With very few and unimportant ex
             a

   ceptions, these schedules were returned duly filled up, and from these
   returns various tables were compiled, exhibiting the details in such
   manner as to admit of their comparison with those published by the
   Manchester Statistical Society. Due care was taken to avoid errors

   from duplicate returns where the children attended more than one
   school, and although some errors of omission may have occurred, the
   author considers the returns as indicating very nearly the actual extent
   of popular education in Bristol.
                it                                        to be observed however that the
                      It
   returns are confined to public schools, whether day, infant, or Sunday,
   and do not include the children attending private schools or dameis is
   schools. The instruction given in the latter class of schools so very
   limited and elementary, that hardly deserves the name, and as most

   of the children attending them also attend Sunday schools and are re
                                                                of little practical importance.
   turned under this head, the omission

\
                       TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                 137

The returns relative to the Roman Catholic schools were not received
in time to include them in the tabular statements, and are therefore to
be added to the numbers exhibited in the following abstract. In these
schools there are boys, 123 ; girls, 92 ; total 215 ; being an increase of
58 boys and 33 girls since 1821. The number of Roman Catholics in
Bristol at that period is estimated at 3000, at the present time it is above
5000. The instruction is wholly gratuitous, and embraces book-keeping
and some of the practical mathematics.

    The population of Bristol and its suburbs (now incorporated in the
new borough) according to the census of 1831 was 104,378.

    Which number at the usual rate of increase (1-J per cent, perann.)
would now amount to 112,438.

    The total number of schools of which returns have been obtained

is 128, of which there are,

                       Scholars.   Scholars.

Day schools 51 with 4,130, of whom 1526 attend Sunday schools also.
ISnufnadnayt......689  .. 1,124
                       .. 11,108.      119 ditto.

128 16,362

Deduct duplicates.. 1,645, leaves scholars 14,717.

In both day and infant schools the number of boys is greater than
that of girls ; in the Sunday schools the proportions are reversed.
   Of the 14,717 scholars:

....Attend day or infant schools only  Scholars.      Per cent, of Pop.
                                           3609               3-20

day or infant and Sunday schools 1645                 1*46

Sunday schools only                    9463           8-42

                                       14,717         1308

   Thus it would appear that the number of children receiving instruc
tion every day is only 35 "70 per cent, of the total number under in
struction, and 64-30 per cent, of that number receive only Sunday
instruction.

   On comparing the number of children under instruction in Bristol
and some other places of which we have accurate returns, the results
are as follow :
138 SIXTH REPORT -- 1836.

                                          Per cent, of Population.

Receiving Instruction in                  Manchester
                                          and Salford.
                               Bury.                    Liverpool.  BriatoL

Day and infant schools ....    131        10-46         12-81       4-66
                               15-5       11-58           1-62      8-42
Sunday Schools only

Total                          28-6       2204          14-43       13 08

       or 1 to 3-5 1 to 4-6 1 to 6-9 1 to 76

                                          pers ons.

   It is evident from this comparison that after making the most ample
allowance for accidental omissions and for the private schools not in
cluded in the Bristol returns, the state of education in this city is far

from satisfactory, looking merely to the number of the children recei
ving instruction.

   Classified according to age, the returns obtained exhibit

                                                                                   Per cent, of

                               Scholars.         Pop.               Est. No. of

                                                   114              Scholars.
                                                 11-23
Under 5 years                     1290                              8-77
Between 5 and 15 years. . . .  12,630             0-71
                                                        .. ..       85-82
Above 15, or not specified. .       797                              5-41

                               14,717           1308                10000

   It has been usual to employ an analysis of this sort for the purpose

of showing the proportion of the instructed and uninstructed in the
youthful population, but the author pointed out the fallacy of assuming
that because the numbers at any one time under instruction between
the ages of five and fifteen fall greatly short of the proportion between
the same ages in the population at large (taken by the Manchester
Statistical Society at twenty-five per cent.), the whole of those thus

unaccounted for must be entirely without instruction. It is evident

that a great number of children may receive instruction for short inter
vals and from time to time, though not being at school when the returns
are made, they would appear among those unaccounted for, and consi
dered uninstructed. The only mode to obtain correct results on this
point, would be to ascertain the number under instruction, according
to their several ages, from year to year, between five and fifteen, and
then to compare these numbers with those of the same ages in the po
pulation at large at the same time. From the neglect of this distinc
tion, some very startling results, which can hardly be received as true,
have been laid before the public on high statistical authority.
           TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.              139

   Maintenance of Schools. Of the day schools there are twelve wholly,
and ten others partially supported by endowment ; twenty-one by pub
lic subscription and payments from the scholars ; four by public sub
scription only ; two by the sole payments of the scholars ; and two out
of tie poor rates.

   The nine infant schools, with one exception, where there is a partial
endowment, are maintained by subscription, and payments from the
children.
Of the sixty-eight Sunday schools, sixty-five are wholly supported

by private and public subscriptions ; one by the poor rate ; and two by
endowment, subscription, and payment jointly.
   The rate of payment by the scholars varies from a halfpenny (in one
school) to threepence per week (in two schools), but in the majority
of cases it is either a penny or twopence per week.

   Instruction. In sixty-six out of the sixty-eight Sunday schools, the

instruction is confined to reading, religion, and morals ; in the other
two (under the management of the Society of Friends) writing is also
taught.
   Writing and arithmetic are taught in two of the infant schools ; in
the other seven, only reading and the elements of religion.

   In forty-three out of the fifty-one daily schools, the pupils learn to
write ; in thirty-seven to use figures ; in fifteen they have some instruc
tion in geography and history ; and in two, a slight admixture of mathe
matics. Drawing is not taught in any of the schools.
   Religious Distinction. In connection with the Established Church

there are

           Day Schools                         26

           Infant                                  5

           Sunday                              18

                        Total .... 49

which (after deducting duplicate returns) contain 4375 scholars, with
214 teachers. The average attendance is about eighty-five per
cent, of the number on the books.

   In connection with the Wesleyan Methodists there are

           Day Schools                          4
           Sunday                              19

                        Total                  23

containing 3839 children, with 626 teachers. The average attendance
is about seventy per cent, of the number on the books.

   In connection with other religious bodies distinct or dissenting from
the Established Church, there are

           Day Schools                         11

           Infant                              3

           Sunday              "25

                        Total .... 39
140 SIXTH REPORT -- 1836.

containing 5026 scholars, with 591 teachers. The average attendance
is about eighty-five per cent, of the numbers on the books.

    Unconnected with any particular denomination there are

                          Day Schools                      10
                          Infant
                                                             1
                          Sunday                             6

                                               Total .. 17

containing 1477 scholars, with 74 teachers. The average attendance
is about eighty-five per cent, of the numbers on the books.

    Almost all the endowed schools are connected with the Established
Church. In many schools (particularly Sunday schools) which are
supported at the charge of particular denominations, scholars of all
creeds are received, and in few comparatively is a strictly exclusive
character maintained.

   Dates of Establishment. On this point the returns were consider
ably defective, but on the whole, it appears that of the total number of
schools now existing in Bristol, nearly one-half have been established

since 1820, and nearly one-fourth since 1830.

   Mr. F. concluded his paper with some remarks on the influence of
education in its present state as compared with what it should be on a
wider and more efficient basis. He referred in illustration to the course
of primary instruction established in the Canton of Zurich, as one
of the most complete and rational schemes of cultivating the mind of a
people that have yet been proposed. In an appendix, the author gave
an account of the foundation and nature of instruction pursued in the
endowed schools of Bristol.

EDxrt.rCaclbtslanfrdom*,  Statistical Documents relating to Glasgow, drawn up by
                          President of the Glasgow and Clydesdale Statistical Society.

                                  Population of Glasgow.

Year.                     Souls.        Year.      Souls.       Year..  Souls.

1560                       4500         1740       17034   1791           66578
1610                        7644        1755       23546   1801           77385
1660                      14678         1763       28300   1811         100749
1688                      11948         1780       42832   1821         147043
1708                      12766         1785       45889                202426
1712                      13832                            1831

The suburbs were included, for the first time in 1780. It will                        be
seen that the             population    fell  off  immediately after the restoration
                           1660, and    that  it   required more than half a century  of
Charles II., in                                                                       to
                          it had lost.
make up what

       * In connexion with these documents see vol. iii. p. 688.
                             TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                    141

   Education. -- In 1816, exclusive of the University, and 13 institutions
in the city wherein youth were educated, there were 144 schools. In
cluding the public institutions, 1 6,799 scholars, of whom 6,516 were taught
gratis in charity or free schools. Several of these however attended
more than one school. In 1820 there were 106 Sunday schools, 158
teachers, 4,668 scholars, viz. boys 2,235, girls 2,433, besides 3 adult
schools, where there were 3 teachers, and 25 male and 54 female

scholars. Since 1820 the number of Sunday schools has greatly in

creased.
   River Clyde. -- In 1653 the merchants of Glasgow had their shipping
harbour on the Ayrshire coast. This port being distant, and land-car
riage expensive, the magistrates in 1658 negotiated with the magistrates
of Dumbarton for the purchase of ground for a harbour ; after some
                             negotiation broke up, the authorities of
dsiisdceursinsigont,hatthe"  the great influx of mariners would raise  Dumbarton con

                                                                       the price of pro
visions to the inhabitants." In 1662 the corporation of Glasgow pur
chased ground and laid out the town of Port-Glasgow for their shipping
harbour, and in 1668 they built a small quay at the Broomielaw ; Mr.
John Golburn, civil engineer, inspected the river, and on the 30th
November 1768 reported that it was in a state of nature, and that as far
down as Kilpatrick there were only two feet of water. In 1775 Mr.
Golbum had so far improved the navigation that vessels drawing six
feet water coxdd come up to Glasgow at the height of a spring tide.
Less than 50 years ago gabbarts, and these only about 30 or 40 tons bur
then, could come up to the city ; and Dr. Cleland recollects when for weeks
together not a vessel of any description was to be found at the port. The
increase of trade consequent on the improvements of the river almost

exceeds belief. By the year 1831 vessels drawing 13 feet 6 inches
water came up to the harbour ; and now large vessels, many of them up
wards of 300 tons burthen, are to be found three deep along nearly the

whole length of the harbour. During the year 1S34, about 27,000
vessels passed Renfrew ferry, and at some periods in that year between
20 and 30 in an hour. A few years ago the harbour was only 730 feet
long, and all on the north side of the river. It is now 1,260 feet long
on the south, and 3,340 on the north. There are four steam dredging
machines and two diving bells employed in deepening the harbour and

Amount of the Revenue, Expenditure, and Debt of the River.

Date.                        Revenue.  Expenditure.                    Debt.

              £ s. d.                  £ s. d.                      £ s. d.

1770           147 0 10                2,680 4 11              2,533 4 1
1780        1,515 8 4                                       21,305 3 1
1790        2,239 0 4                  1,509   0     Ol\j
1800        3,319 16 1                 1,884  17             17,864 18 5£
1810                                   1,904         8       11,001 7 5
1820        6,676 7 6                           8
1830        6,328 18 10                                     28,706 16 6
1835      20,296 18 6                  35,210 9 7           49,736 18 10
1836                                                       113,947 2 8
          31,910 19 3                  7,076 12 2          124,003 13 9
                                                           129,882 10 5
          35,577 16 0                  24,821 8 8

                                       29,609 13 11
H2 SIXTH REPORT -- 1836.

    Another proof of the increase of trade from the improvements on the
river will be found in the duties paid at the Custom-house, as exhibited
in the following table :

Amount of Customs Duties collected at Glasgow in years ending 5 th
                                              January.

i Duties.         li                imtit-s.   &s            Duties.        i Duties.
                  >.
Jx                                                                          >i

         £    s.  d. £ s.                      d.           £ ».      d. £ t. d.
             2                                  4 1825
1812  3124   6    -1j 1819          8384 3      9 1826   41,154 6     7 1831 72,053 17 4
1813        12    5J 1820 11,000 6              0 1827   78,958 13
1814  7511    4                                          71,922 8     8J 1832 68,741 5 9
1815  7419   9                      11,428 19   7 1828   7-1,255 0          1833      97,041  11   11
1816  8300  18    8} 1821           16,147 17            70,964 8     01$'  1834     166,913   3    3
      8422        :s: 1822          22,728 17  2J 1829   59,013 17
1817  8290    1                                                       4 1835 270,667 8 9
1818  6802        2j 1823                       0 1830

                  1 1824 29,926 15                    1               3 1836 314,701 10 8

                  31                                                              '

      Steam Vessels which sailed from Glasgow in 1831 and 1835.
                                                   ABSTRACT.

                                                             1831.                   1835.

                                                         Vessels. Tonnage. Vessels. Tonnage.

      ....Outsea Boats . . .                             12 1947            18 3203

      Goods and Passengers                               8          600     11                834
      Passengers
      Luggage                                            25 1728 26 1927
      Towing
                                                         7 431 8 470
                         Total . .
                                                         3 199 4 257

                                                         55  4905           67              6691

   In 1836 there are 75 steam vessels plying from Glasgow, some of
them as long as frigates of the first class.

   Intercourse with Glasgow. --The intercourse with Glasgow by coaches,
steam boats, track boats, and railroads is so great that it almost exceeds

belief. As several of the coaches and steam-boats depart and arrive
more than once a day, and the mail coaches every day, the following
may be taken as a low average of passengers by stage coaches and steam
boats, while the others are from the books of the respective companies.
In 1834 Dr. Cleland published the names and destinations of 61 stage
coaches which arrived and departed during 313 lawful days, each avera
ging 12 passengers. This gave 458, 232 in the year. By 37 steam-boats
25 passengers each, 579,050. By the swift boats on the Forth and Clyde
Navigation and Union Canal, 91,975. By the light iron boats on the
Paisley Canal, 307,275. By the boats on the Monkland Canal, 31,784 ;
and by the Glasgow and Garnkirk Railroad, 118,882. These together
make the gross number of persons passing and repassing to Glasgow
yearly amount to 1,587,198. A number of these leave Glasgow and
return to it on the same day.
                        TRANSACTIONS OF THE SUCTIONS.                                     113

   Increase of Passengers. --The increase of passengers by                        :t--he    canal
boats and railroads will be seen by the following statement
                                                                                          viz. In
1836 by the swift boats on the Forth and Clyde Navigation and Union
Canal, 198,461. By the Paisley Canal, 423,186. By the Monkland
Canal, one boat making one trip per day, 33,400. By the Glasgow
and Garnkirk Railroad, 146,296. Showing an increase in two years of
251,427 passengers. Experience has shown that the estimate of pas
sengers by coaches and steam- boats in 1834 was taken rather too low.
Iron works in Scotland--quantity of pig iron made in the year ended
                                  on 1st May 1836.

Erected        Name of Works.  i        Tons.  Erected      Name of Works.     \  Tons.
  in or                                          In or
 about                         1                about                          I
                                                years.
years.

....1763                                                                          18,200
                                                                                    3120
1785
          Carron Company.      5 10,400        1805         Calder . . .       5
          Clyde                4 14,560        1805         Shotts . . .       1

1786 Wilsontown . . 1                   4160 1825 Monkland . . 3                  10,920
....1790 Muirkirk . . .
                               3        7800   1828 Gartsherrie                5  18,200
1790 Cleland . . .                      2080   1834 Dundy van . .                 14,560
1790 Devon                     1
                               9        6240

                                                                Total . 34 110,210

    Exclusive of the above furnaces there are 22 additional ones in a state
of forwardness, viz. 4 at Somerlie, 4 at Govan, 4 at Carluke, 1 at Shotts,
2 at Monkland, 4 at Coltness, 1 at Gartsherrie, and 2 at Calder. These
will make 79,560 tons, and the whole 56 furnaces will make 189,800
tons of iron annually. In 1825 the quantity of pig iron made in Scot
land amounted only to 55,500 tons, of which 2,862 tons was exported
from Glasgow. In 1836, 23,792 tons were exported from this city.

   The above works are all in the neighbourhood of Glasgow excepting
five, and none of them are thirty miles distant from that city.

   Post-office. -- On 17th November 1709, when the magistrates of Glas

gow applied to Parliament for a riding post between their city and Edin
burgh, the whole Post-office revenue of Scotland was under 2,000/.

                              Revenue at the following Dates.

               £ s. d.                         £ *.         d.                       £    t. d.

Ju--ly,  1781     4341   4  9  Ju--ly,  1826   34,190    1  7   Ju--ly,  1833     36,481  O 0!
         1810  27,598    6  0    --     1830   34,978   9   04   --      1834     37,483  34
-- 1815        34,784       0    --     1831   35,642       5            1835     39,954  46
'-- 1820       31,533   16  3           1832   36,053  19
                         2                              0   0

   Quarter ending 5th April, 1835, 10,019/. 11*. 3rf. ; 5th July,

9,904/. 8*. Ad. ; 5th October, 9,814/. 18*. 8</. 5th January, 1836,

10,215/. 6*. 3d.

   Bridewell. -- In 1835-6 there were 1613 commitments, --viz. males

above 17 years of age, 738 ; ditto below 17 years, 213 ; females above
17 years, 589 ; ditto below, 17 years, 73. Persons committed during
the year, 1946; ofwhomliberated,1632; remaining on 2nd August 183 6,
144 SIXTH REPORT 1836.

314. Average number daily in the prison, 270; viz. males, 157;

females, 113.

    Abstract accounts for the year ended 2nd August 1836,

Disbursements                                          £2,G27 17 6

Receipts for work, &c                    £2,267 1 7 6

Balance, being the cost to the public
    for maintaining and keeping pri
    soners, including all salaries, bed
    and body clothes, washing, furni

ture, working utensils, machinery,

repairs on the buildings, keeping the
ground in order, and everything
else connected with the- internal

management of the establishment. .         360 0 0

                                                       2,627 17 6

   The deficiency of 360/. when applied to 240, the daily average num
ber of inmates sentenced to labour, shows the expense of each prisoner
to be only 1/. 10s. per annum, 2s. Ad. per month, or nearly \d. per day.

   In 1828 Dr. Cleland ascertained that from 1st May 1827, to 1st May

1 828, there were 1 7,840 bullocks slaughtered in the city and suburbs, and
144,900 sheep and lambs. The value of the butcher meat in the above
year (details published in the Annalsof Glasgow) was 303,978/. 14s. bd.\
bread, 177,566/. 10s. 8d.; milk, 67,342/. 10s. Total value of meat, bread,

and milk, 548,587/. 15s. lrf.

On  the comparative Value of the  Mineral  PTroadyuclotior,nsF.Ro.fS.G,re#act.  Britain
        and tlie rest of Europe.  By John

A calculation, he said, was made by Mr. C. F. Sniidt, in 1829, of the
value of the mineral productions of Europe, at continental prices ; and,
from the accuracy of the statements coming within Mr. Taylor's own
knowledge, he was disposed to believe in the others. It should be
borne in mind that the continental prices differed greatly from those in

England, and, consequently, that the amounts were comparative, and
not absolute >alue. The value of the mineral       products of Europe, in
                                                  1,943,000; other metals,
cluding Asiatic Russia, were, --gold and silver,
28,515,000; salts, 7,640,000; combustibles, 18,050,000 ; making in
round numbers v total of about 56 millions exclusive of manganese.
Now to
one half  tins amount <Jreat     Britain contributed considerably more than
                               in the following proportions :-- silver, 28,500;
          --viz. 29 millions,
copper, 1,369,000; lead, 769,000; iron, 11,292,000; tin, 536,000;
salts, 756,250 ; vitriol, 33,000 ; alum, 33,000 ; coal, 13,900,000. He
then gave « sketch of the history of mining in Great Britain, dwelling
strongly on its vast increase since the introduction of the steam-engine.
The following is Mr. Taylor's estimate of the quantity of lead raised
in Great Britain in the year 1835.
Northumberland,                Mines of                                         Tons.
Cumberland, and T. W. Beaumont, Esq. .. 9,500 Fodders 10,000
                 Manor of Alston, Green- ) 14,139Bingsof
Durham.

                 wich Hospital             ) Ore, producing 3,850
                    TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                   145

                    Greensides Mine in Pat-                    231  Tons.
                         terdale, and other                    140       700
                        Mines in the West of                   100
                        Cumberland                             250   1,000
                                                                     1,200
                    Dufton, CrossfelL Hilton      11,100 Bings
                        and Lunedale              of Ore                 721
                                                                      2775
                    Derwent Mines

                    Bollihope
                    Tynehead

                    Fallowfield

                    jSherlock and Co. and!

                       Jobling and Co
                                Teesdale.

                    Duke of Cleveland's Li- "I
                       berty, and Mr. Hutch- >
                       inson's of ShornburyJ

Yorkshire                      SwALEDALE,                           ,«««*

Derbyshire . .      i/Arkindale, and country"!                      100°
Shropshire . .          adjacent
                    Grassington, and other                            700
                                                                    100° *
                      JManors of the Duke >
                                                                    4000
                        of Devonshire
                                                       1300
                    /Pateley, Greenhough 1        · 1554
                       Hill, &c
                                                        685
                    )About 8 furnaces in con
                       stant work, at 10 Tons             40
                        per week                        100
                    Snailbeach Mine
                    Bog Mine
                    Grit and Gravel Mines . .

Devonshire and Wheal Betsy                                          3539
Cornwall            And other small Mines                             140

North Wales. . . .  TheLead smelted in Flint- '   13415 Tons
                       shire in the year, was
                                                  177
                    In Denbighshire                                  13593

Flintshire ....     Of which was produced"]                         9380

Denbighshire         Jfrom Ores raised in >                         177

                       Flintshire

South Wales.        Smelted in Flintshire         1020
Cardiganshire                        Bristol . .    180

                                                                    1200

vol,, v.-- 1836.
1+G SIXTH REPORT 1836.

Ireland .         Smelted in Flintshire                                            Tons.
                                   Ireland . .
Isle of Man ....                                                                      1200*
                  Smelted in Flintshire . .                                            850
Scotland          Scotch Mine Company
                  Wanloch Head Mines. .                             600
                                                                    700

                                                                                        1300

The numbers on which Mr. Taylor has no certain information are marked

Observations on the Periodicity of Births, showing the total Number
born in each Month ; the Number of Premature Children ; the Sex,
tic. S(C. ; the Number of Stillborn Children, and Children Dying -,
also with regard to the Death of the Mothers, and the most important
  Complications   met  BwyithRoibneeDtelivCeroyl,lindsed,uceMd .Dfr.o,mlattehe   Experience   of
  16,654 Cases.
                                                                                Master of    the

  Dublin Lying-in Hospital.

   This communication was supplementary to a former series of tables
and deductions!, derived from the same accurate registry kept by Dr.
Collins in the Lying-in Hospital, Dublin, for a period of seven years,
commencing November, 1826, during -which 16,654 births took place.
These are classed with reference to several important points in the fol
lowing table, (37 being omitted, because the sex was not noted). The
following are extracts.

    .Mouths.      I                                   I r2                      P "8
                                                                 5
                  ra                                  eE 5

                  llsi                                EL
                              *3S

                                     o

  January . .     1493   761                 39       18 418 23 209
  February. .     1315   676                 34
  March. . . .    1475   754                          10 366 19 190
  April           1382   738                 .38      15 410 17 216
  May
  June            1375   701                 43       12 405 17 225
                  1352   702                          14 417 19 203
  July            1389   747                 44       10 391 24 216
                  1366   718                 42       17 405 24 221
  August . . .    1367   686                 41       14 440 28 234
                         663                 49       13 407 1G 220
  September        1371                      34       22 434 ·20 227
  October. . ,           701                 54
                  1369   701                          13 472 1!) 254
  November.       1363                       34
                                                      14 422 23 207
  December.                                  4C

  1_Totals.. .. LC617 8548              498           172 4987                  255 2622

  I
t"   A short abstract is given in                                                               of
  Transactions of the Sections,"   Vol. iv.  Reports  of the Association,       under the bead
                                    p. 106.
              TRANSACTIONS OF THK SECTIONS.                                                                                                           147

rteegrsIan,rdaosrtdogeirvmetonostiansocftehrtethaeisnuacbctoheveeedriencasgulcluttsalabtalieotn:ds--i,fferIendtivipdeerdiodthse  of the  year, with
                                                                                                                                  years  into quar

                    if 41         IfJ
                                                 £.
                                  li--                                                                                           ·5.2?

Quarters.                         8                                                                                                      5  a§
                                                                                                                                         S
                    2o  c      o                                                                                                                      "1
                        ^      6                  u                                                                              £5c
                                  a. a.                                                                                                               o

Jan., Feb., March.  4283    2191  111  43 1194 59                                                                                                     615
April, May, June.           2141       36 1213 60                                                                                                     644
July, Aug., Sept.   4109    2151  129  44 1252 68                                                                                                     675
Oct., Nov., Dec.    4122    2065  124  49 1328 68                                                                                                     688
                    4103          134

Totals              16617 8548 498 172                   4987 255 2622

   The total number of children still-born in the Dublin Lying-in Ho
spital during the seven years the medical charge was intrusted to me,
was one thousand one hundred and twenty -one ; thus eighty-four occurred
in January, and so on.

        i IIm"                                                                                                                   11
                        a. 5"     «3 CO
        E     a         <              s1                     3                                                                             a
                                  ·3                 «EL
        o§
                                                                                                                                 b              p1
                                                                                                                                 SB

        84 74 91 93 85 95 98 97 98 117 83 106

    The following statement with respect to children dying in the Ho
spital, exhibits a similarly near approach at all seasons of the year ; thus,
of the total number, 284, 26 died in January, &c.

        19 S  IJ3                 I | i ia                                                                                       kj             .nS3
        91
              a         a.                                                                                                       s

                                  >-> 1              CO                                                                                         1

        26 19 24 25 23 20 25 20 23 30 24 25

   The following table shows the periods at which the several women
died, during my residence in the Hospital. The total number was one

l2hundred and sixty-four ; of these eighteen died in January, &c.
148 SIXTH REPORT -- 1836.

j - i| ia4 Sa                                                 V

            E               ·--c      6     "3  b3o  e        3   3          a
            w                         11-9      <    02Ca9.   O   SB

18 20 10 13 17 15 6 11 15 11 16 12

In order to ascertain accurately the result as to periodicity, with
                                      as well as the most important complica
respect to   the  most frequent,   I  have taken the dates from my registry,
tions met   with   in delivery,
and arranged them in tables in the following order.

Labours complicated with Hemorrhage of every variety.

    i i - 0a)                               if'                   SB a It    S Hs 1
                                < --5                1
<-* en
                                                  9 1|

                                                   li
91                                              o9to PV.                 >o
          9

       si

                                8
                  n12
                                   12 10 17 i<r               11  9

Of 131 cases of labour complicated with hemorrhage of every variety,
                                            (17) occurred in  -July; the least (8)
the greatest proportionate number           complicated with   twins, the largest

in April. Of 239 cases of labour
proportion (33) occurred in July;           the least (12) in December.         Other
                                            presented, from which, owing        partly
tables of complicated labours are
to the fewness of the cases, Dr. Collins does not venture to draw any

inferences as to the periodicity of the occurrences.

Facts and Calculations on the present. State               the Bobbin Net Trade,
                                            of
                                                       of
and the past and present State                  the Hosiery Trade. By W.
Felkin, Nottingham.
               of
From these very laborious and detailed communications, the following
                         ;
are extracts relating to the bobbin net trade.                yarn required          -- in
   Capital employed in spinning and doubling the                             ;
                                                                                  :
1831, 935,000/. 1833, 760,000/.

Capital employed in bobbin net making :-- 1831, 2,310,000/. 1833,

1,932,000/.

Numberof hands employed :--in 1831, 211,000; 1833, 159,300.
Value of raw material and manufactured goods --
1831. Amount of South Sea cotton, 1,600,000 lbs., value,"!   :

120,000/                                                          J 1J V     150,000/.

,, Amount of raw silk, 25,000 lbs., value, 30,000/.. .                       r.,, qqq/
      The same when made into a state fit for the bobbin

            net makers
                  TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTION'S.                        149

/1831. Value of 23,400,000                                         "1 ,L8Q9n1l'8,,7_5.'.-
             of bobbin net
                            square varus,       annual  produce

                                            .'

1833. Amount of South Sea cotton, 2,387,000 lbs., raw 224,000/.
,, The same in yarn fit for the bobbin net makers . . 766,000/.*
,, Value of 30,771,000 square yards of English bob
bin net
                                                                   1,850,650/.

1 835. Amount of South Sea cotton, 1 ,850,000 lbs., worth 1 85,000/.
,, Amount of raw silk . ."
                                                                   25,000/.

The same when fit to be used in the bobbin trade                   664,330/.

,, Value of the bobbin net                                         2,212,000/.

   Mr. Felkin also communicated some observations on the difficulties

which impede the collecting of accurate statistical information.

On the Utility of Co-operating Committees of Trade and Agriculture in
the Commercial and Manufacturing Towns of Great Britain, Stc. as
projected by Mr. Holt Mackenzie and Mr. Forbes Royle, and advocated
by Sir Alexander Johnston and Sir C. Forbes, for investigating more
exclusively  the  Natural   and Artificial  Products    of India.  By Colonel
Sykes.

   The object of the paper was to invite the formation of committees, as
suggested in the above title, in our principal manufacturing and com
                            co-operation with                  Asiatic
mercial towns, either  in   following purposes  the     Royal           Society,
or independently, for  the
                                                :--
1. To ascertain what articles, the produce of India, now imported
into England, are of inferior quality to those produced in other coun
tries ; to investigate the causes of the inferiority, and to explain and
suggest means for removing them.
   2. To ascertain what articles now in demand in England, or likely

to be used if furnished, but not yet generally forming part of our com
merce with India, could be profitably provided in that country, or their
place advantageously supplied by other things belonging to it ; to take
measures for making known in India the wants of England, and in En
gland the capabilities of India ; and to suggest and facilitate such ex
periments as may be necessary to determine the practicability of ren
dering the resources of the one country subservient to the exigencies of

the other.
   3. To ascertain what useful articles are produced in countries pos
sessing climates resembling those of the different parts of India which
are not known to that country, and vice versd. To consider the means
of transplanting the productions, and transferring the processes of one
country to another ; and to encourage and facilitate all useful inter
changes of that nature.
   4. With the above views, and for the sake of general knowledge and

improvement, to consider how the statistics of Indian agriculture and

arts (including climate, meteorology, geology, botany, and zoology) may

* Above 100,000/. worth of this yarn was sent abroad (262,000 lbs.).
150 SIXTH REPORT 1836.

be most conveniently and economically ascertained and recorded; and
to encourage and facilitate all inquiries directed to those objects.
   Numerous illustrations of these national considerations were quoted

from Mr. Royle. It appeared that so lately as 1784, an American
vessel arrived at Liverpool with eight bags of cotton, which were seized,
under the belief that America did not produce that article ; and now her
produce is four hundred millions of pounds, the greater part of which
is consumed in Great Britain ; and it is remarkable, that the native

country of the Sea Island cotton is supposed to be Persia. The
Carolina rice, which sells at 3d. per lb., whilst the best India rice sells
         2-|d. or 3d., originated in a single bag  of East India rice
at only  C. Dubois, of the India House, to an      American trader.    given
by Mr.
                                                                         All

the coffee of the West Indies originated in a single plant in the hot
houses of Amsterdam.
Of new or little-known articles lately introduced from India, and
which are of the utmost importance to our manufacturing interests, it
was stated that in 1792, Mr. Brown, the resident at Cossimbazar, told
the council at Calcutta, that if it should think proper to send a few cwts.
of lac to Europe, it might be procured in Calcutta. The annual con
sumption in England is now estimated at six hundred thousand lbs.
Catechu was so much neglected that its price was as low as 2s. per
cwt. ; it was discovered to be useful in dying cotton a peculiar brown,
and is also employed in tanning ; and its price is steady at 40s. per
cwt. Royal safHower is another article of curious illustration. Ten
years since only Turkey safflower was known, and now East India alone
commands the market. Rape-seed, recently introduced, has, it is un
derstood, produced a profit to one mercantile house of £40,000. Flax
or linseed, for which we are dependent on Russia for 50,000 tons an
nually, was first imported from India in 1832 : it was found to be better
than the Russian, and the crushers gave 15s. per cwt. more for it. The
importation has amazingly increased, and England will doubtless ere
long look to her own dependencies for the total supply of her wants.
In India even, some kinds of Indian iron have recently been sold at
more than double the price of the English iron. The rapid increase of
the importation of castor and cocoa-nut oils was mentioned ; and spe
cimens of cocoa-nut fibre, as a valuable, cheap, and healthy substitute
for horse-hair, in stuffing mattresses, &c, were exhibited. Many other
articles were enumerated as of great value to the manufacturers of En
gland ; gums, resins, varnishes, oil and cordage, plants, &c, &c, besides
articles of the Materia Medica, such as senna, rhubarb, &c, &c, &c.

         On Spade Husbandry in Norfolk. By Dr. Yelloly.

On the Effect of Railroads on Intercommunication. By Dr. Lardnbr.
   The subjects discussed by Dr. Lardner, were the relative numbers of

persons travelling now by railroads, and formerly by coaches, between
the same points : the general proportion being as 4 to 1, a result due
               TRANSACTIONS OF THE SECTIONS.                                    151

to the diminished price and augmented speed. The comparative effect
of swift packets on canals 'was stated to be very small. The practica
bility of augmenting the celerity on railroads to even fifty miles an hour
was advocated, and illustrated by the results of actual trials.

Outlines of a Memoir on Statistical Desiderata. By W. R. Greg, Esq.

In this communication the author brought forward proofs of the total
deficiency of statistical information on some subjects of national im
portance, and the unsatisfactory nature of that which had been collected
by public authority, on others. From examinations of population ta
bles, tables of births and deaths, criminal statistics, the statistics of
                                      birth, and of stolen property,
education, of  tihllaetgit"imwaitthe  the exception of the revenue    the author is led
to conclude,                                                          and commercial

tables, no general statistical documents yet exist in England from
which any philosophical inferences can be safely drawn, and that till
the materials are wholly re-collected, all attempts to elicit such in
ferences can only end in disappointment and error." In order to
obtain more satisfactory results in future, he deems it highly necessary
to depart from the plan so commonly resorted to, of issuing circular
queries, and to commit the task of obtaining authentic and complete in
formation to individuals who shall make the execution of it their pro

fessional duty, and whose labours shall be remunerated accordingly.

On Formula of Returns     of the gross Receipts  Jeofffrtihees  Revenues   of   Great
 Britain, and of Savings   Banks Returns. By                                    Esq.
                                                                  Kingsle   y,

   The object of this communication was to enforce the propriety and
advantage of an uniform and well-considered plan of gross, rather than
net returns, on the above-named subjects, under the authority of Par
liament.

   M. Le Play presented to the Section a copy of a " Resume des

Travaux Statistiques de 1'Administration des Mines en 1835."
                               [ 152 ]

          INDEX I.

REPORTS ON THE STATE OF SCIENCE.

OiPBJECTS and Rules of the Asso               Challis (Prof.) on the mathematical
   ciation, v.                                   theory of fluids, 225.
Officers and Council, viii.
Officers of Sectional Committees, ix.         Chemical theory of thermal springs, 68.
Treasurer's Account, xi.                      Clendinning (Dr.), report on the mo

Reports on the progress and desiderata           tions and sounds of the heart, 261.
   of different branches of science, al       Colouring matter of water explained,
   ready printed, xii.
                                                  35.
Reports of Researches, already printed,
   xiv.                                       Daubeny (Dr.), address, xxi ; on the
                                                 present state of our knowledge with
Reports undertaken to be drawn up at             respect to mineral and thermal wa
   the request of the Association, xv.            ters, 1.

Researches recommended, and deside            Dublin, the remarkable plants of the
   rata noticed by the Committees, xvi.           neighbourhood of, 253.

Synopsis of sums appropriated to sci          Dublin Committee on the pathology
    entific objects, xix.
                                               --of the brain and nervous system,
Address by Prof. Daubeny, xxi.
                                                  283.
Alpine plants of Scotland, 258.
America, North, physical geography of,        -- Sub-committee on the motions
                                                 and sounds of the heart, 261.
    123.
                                              Earth, instructions for conducting ex
          , climate of, 128.                     periments on the temperature of,
          , birds of, 164.                        291.

          , cetacea of, 161.                  Earthquakes, their influence upon
                                                  springs, 43.
·-- ----  , ichthyology of, 202.
          , mammalia of, 137.                 Edinburgh, remarkable plants of the
                                                  neighbourhood of, 253.
          , reptiles of, 197.
                                              Elastic fluids, theory of, 246.
                          , zoology of, 121.  Equations of elevated degrees, on trans
Arteries and absorbents, on the com
                                                 forming and resolving, 295.
   munications between the, 289.
                                              Fluids, on the theory of, 225, 246.
Atmosphere, mechanical theory of the,
    226.                                      Geography, physical, of North Ame
                                                 rica, 123.
Birds of North America, 104.
Botany :-- the remarkable plants of           Geology :-- position of thermal springs,
                                                 62 ; products of springs, 56 ; theories
   Dublin, Edinburgh, and south-west             of thermal springs, 67.
   of Scotland, 253 ; plants which cha
   racterize Scotland and Ireland, 257.       Glairine, described, 31.
Brain and nervous system, pathology           Graham (Prof.) on the remarkable
   of the, 283.
                                                 plants of Dublin, Edinburgh, and
Carlsbad waters, imitation of the, 54.           south-west of Scotland, 253.
Carbonate of soda, its origin in certain
                                              Hamilton (Sir W.) on Mr. Jerrard's
    secondary rocks, 24.                         method of transforming and resolv
Cetacea of America, 161.                         ing equations, 295.
                                    INDEX II.                           153

Heart, on the motions and sounds of       Rcptilia of North America, 197.
                                          Richardson (Dr.) on North American
    the, 261, 275.
Heat, central, theory of, 69.                 zoology, 121.

Hodgkin (Dr.) on the communications       Sabine (Major Edw.) on the direction
                                             and intensity of the terrestrial mag
    between the arteries and absorbents,     netic force in Scotland, 97.
   289.
Hydrogen, sulphuretted, in springs,       Salt-springs, ingredients of, 16 ; origin
     73.                                      of, 74.

Ichthyology of North America, 202.        Scotland, on the direction and inten
Ireland, on the remarkable plants of,         sity of the terrestrial magnetic force
                                             in, 97 ; remarkable plants jof, 253,
   257.                                       257.

Jerrard (G. B.) on the validity of his    Sea-water, mineral [substances found
   method of transforming and resolv          in, 4 ; gaseous contents of, 6.
   ing equations, 295.
                                          Silica, its origin in springs, 25.
London Committee on the communi           Snow-water, on, 2.
    cation between the arteries and ab    Soda, carbonate of, in certain'seton-
    sorbents, 289.
                                              dary rocks, 24; without carbonic
London Sub-committee on the motions           acid in springs, 25.
    and sounds of the heart, 261.         Solar spectrum, on determining the re
                                              fractive indices for the standard rays
Lubbock (J. W.) on the discussions of          of, 288.
                                           Sound, theory of the velocity of, 233 ;
   observations of the tides, 285.            its propagation through liquids, 244.
                                          Springs, mineral, state of our know
Mackay (J. T.) on the remarkable               ledge respecting, 1.

   plants of Dublin, Edinburgh, and               , exerting a peculiar'action'upon
   south-west of Scotland, 253.               the animal ceconomy, 44.
        on the plants which characterize
   Scotland and Ireland, 257.                     , gases evolved from, 36.
Magnetic force, terrestrial, its direc            , influence of earthquakes upon,
   tion and intensity in Scotland, 97.        43.
Mammalia of North America, 137.                   , ingredients of, 11, 14.
Marsupial animals of North America,              , origin of springs in general, 58.
                                                    , products of, 56.
    149.         :--on the motions  and             , temperature of, 7.
Medical science                                   , salt, origin of, 74.
                                                   , thermal, origin of, 59 ; geologi
sounds of the heart, 261 ; on the pa            cal position of, 62 ; theories of, 67 .
thology of the brain and nervous
                                           Temperature, subterranean, report of
    system, 283.                                experiments on, 291.
Meteoric water, on, 3.
                                           Thermal waters, state of our knowledge
Migration of birds, 186.                        respecting, 1 ; catalogue of, 80.
Mineral waters, on the state of our
                                           Tides, discussions of observations of
knowledge respecting, 1.                        the, 285.

Nervous system, pathology of the, 283.     Todd (Dr.), report on the motions and
Nitrogen in springs, 71.                       sounds of the heart, 261.

Ornithology, North American, 164.

Phillips (Prof.) on subterranean tem      Water, mineral and thermal, on the
    perature, 291.                           present state of our knowledge re

Powell (Rev. B.) on determining the       specting, 1.        the term  ' mineral
   refractive indices for the standard       , definition of
   rays of the solar spectrum, 288.
                                          water', 1.
Pyrrhine, 1, 2.
                                               , atmospheric, 1.
Rain-water, examination of, 2.                  of lakes, 6.

                                               of seas, 3.
lo4 INDEX II.

Water of springs, their temperature, 7 ;      itWater, instruments for drawing'            up
   periodical variations of temperature,      from great depths, 5.
   9 ; secular variation of temperature,           , its colouring matter explained,
  9; organic matter, 30; origin of
   springs, 58 ; products of springs, 56;     35.
   springs exerting a peculiar action
   upon the animal ceconomy, 44.                 , salt springs, origin of, 74.
       , mineral, classification of, 14 ; in     , thermal springs, on the term
                                              ' thermal', 7 ; origin of, 59 ; geolo
   gredients found in, 11, 14; gases          gical position of, 62 ; theories of,
   evolved from, 36 ; on analysing, 47 ;
   improvements in chemical analysis,           J.67 ; catalogue of, 80.  report   on      the
   48 ; on the detection of organic mat
   ter in, 51 ; apparatus for determin        Williams (Dr. C. B.),
  ing the quality and amount of the           motions and sounds of the heart,
   gases combined with, 52 ; factitious,
   53 ; works on, 76.                         261.

                                              Zoology of North America, 121 ; some
                                                 remarks on, 223.

            INDEX II.

MISCELLANEOUS COMMUNICATIONS TO THE

                             SECTIONS.

Absorption, on, 119.                          Arsenical poisons, 67.
                                              Artificial crystals, 47.
Adams (R.) on the bones in chronic            Atmospheric air, means of detecting
   rheumatism, 123.
                                                 gases present in, 77.
    on the new circulating channclsin                 electricity, on, 48.

   double popliteal aneurism, 123.            Aurora boreal on the, 32.
Addams (R. ) on the vibration of bells,                        :
                                                                             is,
   36.
                                                                                     11
Alcock (Mr.) on taste being dependent         Babbage (C.) on a thermometer re            ;;;
   on nerves from the spheno-palatine            cently discovered in Italy, 77.
                                              Bath waters, analysis of the, 70.                                      1
ganglion, 124.                                Berzelius, chemical nomenclature of,                                           ;;
     on the anatomy of the fifth pair
                                              44.
of nerves, 124.

Alcyonella Stagnorum, on, 104.                Black (W.) on ascertaining the
Algebraic geometry, on the doubtful              strength of spirits, 61.

   algebraic sign in certain formulae of,     BBolotwanpyipe--,  common bellows,     77.
                                                                 on the longevity
5.                                                                                 of the  yew,
                                              and the antiquity of planting it in
Ammonia, lithiate of, a secretion of

insects, 70.                                  church-yards, 101 observations on

Anemometer, Whewell's, 39.                    the Marsiliacese, 102; Alcyonella

Aneurism, popliteal, 123.                     Stagnorum, 104; on the manage
Animal substances, means of pre               ment of the piue, 04 new and scan-
                                              dent species of the Norantia, 104;
    serving, 99.              heats of        effects of arsenic ou vegetation, 04

Apjohn (Dr.) on the specific                  on caoutchouc, 05 on the accele
                                              ration of the growth of wheat, 106
   gases, 33.
Architecture, naval, 129.

Arsenic, its effects on vegetation, 76.       crystals of sugar found in Rhode-
                                             IND1X II.     15.)

dendron pontic um, 106 ; on the                              pyro-phosphate of soda, 48 ; import
fruits of the Deccan, 106.                                   ant facts obtained from theory of
Bowman (J. £.) on the hone cave at                           those experimental results which are
                                                             considered as ultimate facts, 50; on
    Cefn in Denbighshire, 88.
     on the longevity of the yew, and                        gaseous interference, 54 ; on the
the an tiquity of planting it in church-                     combinations of sulphuric acid and

    yards, 101.                                              water, 56 ; method of ascertaining
Brain, on diseases of the, 107.                              the strength of spirits, 61 ; new
Brewster (Sir D.) on the action of                           gaseous bicarburet of hydrogen, 62 ;
    crystallized surfaces upon common                        peculiar compound of carbon and
    and polarized light, 13.                                 potassium, 63; de-oxydation of iron,
 on the polarizing structure in                               64 ; a new isomeric compound, 67 ;
the crystalline lens after death, 16.                         on arsenical poisons, 67 ; on lithiate
                                                              of ammonia as a secretion of insects,
     on cataract, 111.                                       70; analysis of the King's bath
                                                              water, Bath, 70 ; analysis of wheat,
Brooufgthhteong,los(sSo.-pDh.a)ryonngethael   sensibility     &c. 74 ; effect of arsenic on vegeta
                                             nerve, 125.      tion, 76; new substance from the
                                                              distillation of wood, 76; insulation
Calculus, integral, on the, 1 ; new pro                       of fluorine, 77 ; chemical symbols,
    perty of the equilateral hyperbola, 2 ;                   77 ; an ancient thermometer, 77 ;
    remarkable theorem of Mr. Abel, 3.                        modification of the common bellows

41.  of principal relations, on the, 4,                        blowpipe, 77 ; on detecting gases
                                                              present in atmospheric air, 77.
Calorimotor, Hare's, 45.                                   Church-yards, antiquity of planting
                                                              the yew in, 101.
Cancerous diseases, on, 112.                               Clarke (Rev. Mr.) on two springs on
Caoutchouc, on, 105.                                          the north side of Hales Bay, 94.

Carbon and potassium, on a compound                        Collins (Dr.) on the periodicity of
of, 63.                                                       births, &c. 146.

Carmichael (R.) on cancerous and tu                        Compass, advantage of tempered nee
                                                               dles, 30.
     berculous diseases, 112.
                                                           Corbet (Dr.) on inhibition of prussiate
Carpenter (Rev. L.) on Lucas's me                              of potash by plants, 107.
    thod of printing for the blind, 41.
                                                           Cornwall, on the metalliferous veins
Carpenter (W. R.) on the criteria by                           of, 83; on the performance of steam-
    which species are to be distinguished                      engines in, 130.
    in zoology and botany, 99.
                                                           Cossham (J. N.), improvement of Na
Carson (Dr.) on absorption, 119.
Cataract, on, 111.                                             pier's rods, 132.
Cement, metallic, from iron ore, 65.                       Craig (Rev. E.) on polarization, 19.
Cephalonia, on the sea rivulets of, 81.                    Crosse (A.) on the formation of arti
Cerebral nerves, on the sensibilities of
                                                               ficial crystals, 47.
    the, 125.                                              Crystallized surfaces, action of upon

Charlesworth (E.) on the remains of                            common and polarized light, 13.
   vertebrated animals in the tertiary                     Crystals, formed by electrical action,
    beds of Norfolk and SmTolk, 48.
                                                                47.
Chatfield (H.) on British naval archi                               of iron pyrites, 77.

     tecture, 129.                                          Cumbrian mountains, on the removal
Chemical nomenclature of Berzelius,                            of boulders from the, 87.

44.                                                         Dalton (Dr.) on chemical symbols, 77.
                                                            Damoiseau's work on the theory of
     symbols, 77.
                                                                the moon, 12.
     theory of volcanic phenomena,
                                                            Daubeny (Dr.) on the effects which
    81.    :-- on  the  chemical             nomen
Chemistry                                                        arsenic produces on vegetation, 76.
clature of Berzelius, 44 ; on a calori                                on the chemical theory of vol

motor for igniting gases, 45 ; aqueous                           canic phamomena, 81.
sliding-rod hydrogen eudiometer,
46; Hare's volumeters, 46; electri
cal experiments, 47; results of ex

periments on the phosphate and
156 INDEX II.

Davy (Prof.) on a new gaseous bicar-      Forbes (Prof.) on the weight, height,
   buret of hydrogen, 62.                    and strength of men, 38.
on a compound of carbon and                       on the physical geography of the
                                             Pyrenees in relation to hot springs,
    potassium, 63.
Deccan, on the fruits of the, 106.            83.

De la Beche (H. T.) on the metalli        Forbes (Mr.) notice of sixteen species
   ferous veins of Cornwall, 83.             of testacea new to Scotland, 99.

Denbighshire, bone cave at Cefn, 88.      Fox- (B. W.) on voltaic agencies in
Devonshire, on the physical structure        metalliferous veins, 81 .

  J.of, 95.      H.) on extensive         Gas, new, 62.

Dickson (Sir D.                           Gaseous interference, on, 54.
aneurism, 124.

Digestive organs, on the chemistry of     GGaesoelso,gyon:--thpehsypseicciafilc,   heats of,  33.
                                                                                  on certain  points,
the, 117.

Dublin Committee on a case of Morbus      in, 78 ; on the sea rivulets in Cepha-
Coxse Senilis, 124.
                                          lonia, 81 ; chemical theory of vol
Dupin (Baron) on the price of grain,      canic phenomena, 81 ; voltaic agen
   and its influence on French popu       cies in metalliferous veins, 81 ; hot

lation, 132.                              springs of the Pyrenees, 83 ; metal
                                          liferous veins of Cornwall, 83 ; ver-

Ear-trumpet, improved, 36.                tebrated animals in the tertiary beds
Eblanine, a new substance from the        of Norfolk and Suffolk, 48; fallacies
                                          in Mr. Lyell's classification of ter
   distillation of wood, 76.              tiary deposits, 86; limestones and
Education, state of, in Liverpool, 133;   associated strata near Manchester,

   in Bristol, 136.                       86 ; removal of large blocks from
                                          the Cumbrian mountains, 87 ; hy
Electrical experiments, 47.               drography of the Severn, 88; bone
        repulsion, on, 19.                cave at Cefn in Denbighshire, 88 ;
                                          new species of Saurians, 90 ; two
Electricity, atmospheric, 48.             springs on north side of Hales bay,
Electro-magnetism applied to machi
                                          94 ; Holoptychus nobilissimus, 94 ;
    nery, 24.                             classification of the old slate rocks
Empirical tables for finding the moon's   of North Devonshire, 95 ; site of

    place, on, 12.                        the ancient city of Memphis, 96.

Enys (J. S.) on the performance of        Glasgow, statistics of, 140.

   steam-engines in Cornwall, 130.        Glosso-pharyngeal nerve, sensibility
Ettrick (W.) on an instrument for ob         of the, 125.

   serving minute changes of terrestrial  Gluten, soluble, modification of, 74.
    magnetism, 33.
                                          Gossan of the Cornish miners, 82.
       , new rubber for an electrical
   machine, 33.                           Grecian music, on, 37.

        on tho common bellows blow        Greeves (A. F. A.) on the gyration of

    pipe, 77.                                 the heart, 120.
Eudiometer, aqueous sliding-rod hy
                                          Greg (W.E.) statistical desiderata,! 51.
    drogen, 46.
Eudiometrical experiments, calorimo-      Hall (Dr. M.) on the sensibility of the
                                             glosso-pharyngeal nerve, 125.
   tor for igniting gases in, 45.
Exley (Thos.) on facts obtained ma        Hall (G. W.) on accelerating the
                                             growth of wheat, 106.
   thematically in chemistry, 50.
Eye, on cataract, 111; on the muscles     Hamilton (Sir W. B.) on the calculus
                                             of principal relations, 4, 41.
   and nerves of the eyeball, 121.
                                          Hancock (Dr.) on the manati of Gui
Felkin (W.) on the state of the bob
   bin-net trade, 148.                        ana, 98.

Fluorine, on the insulation of, 77.                 on a new and scandent species
Foetus, human, without brain, heart,         of the Norantia, 104.
                                          Hare (Dr.) on the chemical nomen
   lungs and liver, 122.                     clature of Berzelius, 44.
Forbes (Prof.) on terrestrial magnetic

   intensity, 30.
                                      INDEX II.                              157

Hare (Dr.) on a calorimotor for pro              Light, polarized, action of crystallized
   ducing ignition at a distance, 45.                surfaces upon, 13.

on volumeters, 46.                               Lignin, nitrogen in, 74.
                                                 Iiithic acid, in the secretion of insects,
on the aqueous sliding-rod hy
                                                     70.
drogen eudiometer, 46.
Haorrfiesle(cWtr.icSa.l)                         Liverpool, state of education in, 133.
                           on some    phenomena  Lloyd (Dr.) on the Marsiliaceae, 102.
                          repulsion,  19.        Lloyd (Prof.) on the direction of the

Heart, on the gyration of the, 120.                 isoclinal lines in England, 31.
                                                 Logarithms, mnemonical, 38.
Henry (Dr. C.) on gaseous interfe                Lowe (Mr.) on crystals of iron pyrites,
    rence, 54.
                                                     77.
Henslow (Prof.) on crystals of sugar
   in Rhododendron ponticum, 106.                Lubbock (J. W.) on new empirical ta
Henwood (Mr.) on naval architecture,
    130.                                            bles forfinding the moon's place, 12.

Herapath (W.) on the aurora horealis,            Macartney (Dr.) on the organ of voice
                                                    in the New Holland ostrich, 97.
    32.                                                  on the means of preserving ani

     on arsenical poisons, 67.
     on lithiate of ammonia as a se

cretion of insects, 70.                              mal and vegetable substances, 99.
                                                         on the structure of the teeth, and
       , analysis of King's hath, Bath, 70.
Hetling (W.) on anew instrument for                 account of their decay, 115.
                                                 Machinery, application of electro-mag
   removing ligatures, 124.
Holoptychus nobilissimus, 94.                    netism to, 24.
Hope (Rev. F. W.) on the probability
                                                 M'Cullagh (J.) on the laws of dou
   that some of the early notions of an
                                                   J.ble refraction in quartz, 18.
   tiquity were derived from insects,99.
Hopkins (W.)on certain points in phy             M'Gauley (Rev. W.), experiments
                                                    in electro-magnetism, in its appli
    sical geology, 78.
                                                    cation as a moving power, 24.
Houston (Dr.), account of twin foe               Magnetic force, terrestrial, on, 31.
tuses, one of which without brain,               Magnetic intensity, terrestrial, influ

   heart, lungs, and liver, 122.                    ence of height upon, 30.
Hydrogen, new gaseous bicarburet of,             Magnetical instrument, new, 28.
                                                 Magnetism, terrestrial, instrument for
62.                                                 observing minute changes of, 33.

Inglis (Dr.) on the conducting powers            Magnetometer, Scoresby's, 28.
   of iodine, 66.                                Man, on the weight, height, and

Interference, gaseous, 54.                          strength of, 38.
Intensity, influence of height upon,             Manchester, on the limestones and

    30.                                          strata of, 86.

Iodine, conducting powers of, 64.                Marsiliaccrr, observations  --onretsheea,rc1h0e2s.
Isoclinal lines in Yorkshire, direction          Mathematicsand Physics:

    of, 31.                                      in the integral calculus, 1 ; calculus
       , direction of in England, 31.
                                                 of principal relations, 4, 41 ; on the
Johnston (Prof.) on paracyanogen, 67.            doubtful algebraic sign in certain
Jones (W. C.) on ths analysis of wheat,          formula; of algebraic geometry, 5 ;
                                                 rules for constructing compensating
    74.
                                                 pendulums, 7 ; on new empirical ta-

Knox (Mr.) on the insulation of fluo             bles[for finding the moon's place, 1 2 ;
   rine, 77.                                     action of crystallized surfaces upon
                                                 common and polarized light, 13 ; po
Lardner (Dr.) on the effect of railroads         larizing structure in the crystalline
   on intercommunication, 150.                   lens after death, 16 ; laws of dou
                                                 ble refraction in quartz, 1 8 ; on po
Lens, crystalline, alter death, 16.              larization, 19; phajnomena of elec
Ligatures, new instrument for the re             trical repulsion, 19; electro-mag
                                                 netism as a moving power, 24 ; new
   moving of, 124.
158 INDEX II.

compass bar, 28; terrestrial mag                Nerve, glosso-pharyngeal, on the sen
netic intensity, 30; isoclinal mag                 sibility of the, 125.
netic lines in Yorkshire, 31 ; iso
                                                Nervous system, functions of the, 1 19.
clinal lines in England, 31 ; aurora            New Holland ostrich, on the organ of
borealis, 32 ; new method of inves
                                                   voice in the, 97.
tigating the specific heats of gases,           Nitrogen in lignin, 74.
33 ; improved ear-trumpet, 36 ; on              Norantia, new species of, 104.
the higher orders of Grecian music,             Norfolk, vertebrated animals found in
   37 ; mnemonical logarithms, 38 ; on
   the weight, height, and strength of             the tertiary beds of, 48.
   men, 38; Whewell'sanemometer, 39.            Nugent (Lord) on the sea rivulets in
Mechanical science :-- on British na
                                                    Cephalonia, 81.
val architecture, 129; on the tides,
                                                Nuttall (J.) on the management of
130 ; on the performance of steam-
engines in Cornwall, 130 ; paddle-                 the pine tribe, 104.

    wheels, 131.  :--  on  diseases  of the     O'Beirne (Dr.) on tetanus, 109.
Medical science                                 Ostrich, New Holland, on the organ of

brain, 107 ; on tetanus, 109 ; on                  voice in the, 97.
                                                       , two-toed, on the foot of the, 98.
cataract, 111; on cancerous and tu
                                                Paddle-wheels, on, 131.
berculous diseases, 1 1 2 ; on the struc        Paracyanogen, a new isomeric com

ture of the teeth, 115; on the che                  pound, 67.
                                                Pendulums, compensating, mathema
mistry of the digestive organs, 117 ;
on the functions of the nervous sys                 tical rules for constructing, 7.
                                                Phelps (Mr.) on the formation of peat,
tem, 119; on absorption, 119; on
                                                    107.
the gyration of the heart, 120; on
the muscles and nerves of the eye               Phillips (Prof.) on the direction of iso
                                                   clinal magnetic lines in Yorkshire,
ball, 121; newly discovered pecu
liarity in the structure of the uterine             31.
decidua, 121 ; account of human                          on certain limestones and asso

twin foetuses, one of which without                 ciated strata near Manchester, 86.
brain, heart, lungs, and liver, 122 ;                    on the removal of boulders from
on the bones in chronic rheumatism,
                                                   the Cumbrian mountains, 87.
123 ; on the new circulating chan               Plana's work on the theory of the moon ,

nels in double popliteal aneurism,                  12.
123 ; new instrument for removing               Poisons, arsenical, 67.
ligatures, 124 ; sensibility of the             Polarization, on, 19.
   glosso-pharyngeal nerve, 125.
Memphis, site of the ancient city of, 96.       Polarized light, action of crystallized
Mineral productions of Great Britain,
                                                    surfaces on, 13.
value of, 144.                                  Polarizing structure in the crystalline

Montgomery (Dr.) on a newly dis                     lens after death, 16.
   covered peculiarity in the uterine           Population, influence of the price of

decidua, 121.                                       grain on, 132, 133.
                                                Potassium and carbon, on a compound
Moon, Uamoiseau's and Plana's works
                                                    of, 63.
on the theory of the, 12.                       Prichard (Dr.) on diseases of the brain,

Moon's place, on new empirical tables                107.
for finding, 12.                                Principal relations, on the calculus of,
Mushet (Mr.) on the de-oxydation of
   iron ore, 64 ; on a metallic cement             4,41.
                                                Pyrenees, on the physical geography
from iron ore, 65.
Music, Grecian, 37.                                 of the, 83.

Murchison (R. I.) on the hydrogra               Quartz, on the laws of double refrac
                                                    tion in, 18.
   phy of the Severn, 88.
       , classification of the old slate rocks  Refraction, double, in quartz, 18.
                                                Railroads, their effect on intercommu
of Devonshire, 95.
                                                    nication, 150.
Napier's rods, an improvement of, 132.
Naval architecture, British, 129.
                                    INDEX II.                            159

Reid (Dr.) on the functions of the ner        braic sign in certain formulae of al
                                               gebraic geometry, 5.
    vous system, 119.                      Stavelly (Prof.) on the mathematical
Repulsion, electrical, on, 19.                rules for constructing compensating
                                               pendulums, 7.
Riley (Dr.) on an additional species       Stutchbury (S.) on an additional spe
   of sanrians found near Bristol, 90.         cies of saurians found near Bristol,
         on the foot of the two-toed os
    trich, 98.

Rock-blasting, on, 45.                         90.
Rootsey (Dr.) on the higher orders of      Succulent plants, means of preserving,

   Grecian music, 37.                          100.

        on mnemonical logarithms, 38.      Suffolk, vertebrated animals found in
        on sugar, malt, and an ardent         the tertiary beds of, 48.
   spirit from mangel wurzel, 107.
Royle (Prof.) on caoutchouc, 105.          Sykes (Lieut.- Col.) on the fruits of the
                                              Deccan, 106; on the utility of co
Russell (J. S.) on the ratio of the re        operating committees of trade and
                                              agriculture, 149.
   sistance of fluids to the velocity of

waves, 41.

Saurians found near Bristol, an addi       Talbot (H. F.) on the integral calcu

   tional species of, 90.                      lus, 1.
Scanlan (R.) on a new substance ob         Taste, experiments on the sense of,

   tained from the distillation of wood,       124, 126.

76.                                        Taylor (J.) on the value of mineral

Scoresby (Rev. W.) on a magnetometer           productions of Great Britain, 144.
   for measuring minute magnetic at        Teale (T. P.) on Alcyonella Stagno-

    tractions, 28 ; on a new compass bar,     rum, 104.
                                           Teeth, their structure and decay, 115.
     28.                                   Tetanus, on, 109.
                                           Thermometer, recently discovered in
 Sedgwick (Rev. A.), classification of
     the old slate rocks of the North of       Italy, 77.
                                           Thomson (Dr. R. D.) on the chemis
     Devonshire, 95.
·Severn, hydrography of the, 88.               try of the digestive organs, 117.
 Ship-building, on, 129.                   Traill (Dr.) on the aurora borealis of

Soda, phosphate and pyro-phosphate             Aug. 11, 32.
                                           Tuberculous diseases, on, 112.
of, 48.
                                           Vegetable substances, means of pre
Spinetto (Marquis) on the site of the
   ancient city of  Memphis, 96.                serving, 100.
Spirits, method     of ascertaining  the    Vegetation, effects of arsenic on, 76.
                                            Veins, metalliferous, voltaic agencies
strength of, 61.
Springs, hot, of the Pyrenees, 83.              in, 81 ; of Cornwall, 83.
     of Hales Bay, 94.                      Vertebrated animals found in the ter
Starch, on the quantity of in ordinary
                                              tiary beds of Norfolk and Suffolk, 48.
    wheat, 74.                             Volatile fluid, peculiar, 74.
                                           Volcanic phenomena, chemical the
Statistics :-- influence of the price of
   grain on the French population,             ory of, 81.
   132 ; state of education in Liver       Voltaic agencies in metalliferous veins ,
   pool, 133; state of education in
    Bristol, 136; statistics of Glasgow,       81.

   140 ; on the value of the mineral       Voltaic battery, experiments  on the,
   productions of Great Britain, 144 ;         47.
  periodicity of births, &c, 146 ; state
   of the bobbin net trade, 141 ; on co    Volumeter, Hare's, 46.
   operating committees of trade and
   agriculture, 149; effect of railroads   Walker (J.) on the muscles and nerves
   on intercommunication, 150 ; on
                                              of the eyeball, 121.
    statistical desiderata, 151.           Watson (H. H.) on the phosphate and
Steam-engines in Cornwall, perform
                                              pyro-phosphate of soda, 48.
    ance of, 130.                          West (W.) on means of detecting gases
Stevelly (Prof.) on the doubtful alge
                                               present in air, 77.
                                           Wheat, on the analysis of, 74.
1G0 INDEX II.

Wheat, on accelerating the growth of,    Yew, its longevity and antiquity in
    106.                                    church-yards, 101.
       , influence of its price on popu
   lation, 132, 133.                     Yorkshire, direction of isoclinal mag
                                            netic lines in, 31.
Whewell (Rev. W.), account of his
                                         Zoology, New Holland ostrich, organ
    anemometer, 39.                         of voice in the, 97.
         on the tides, 130.                     , two-toed ostrich, foot of the, 98.
                                                , manati of Guiana, 98.
Williams (Dr.) on an improved ear-              , seals, crania of several, 98.
                                                , testacea, sixteen species new to
    trumpet, 36.                            Scotland, 99.
Wood, a new substance obtained from             , animal and vegetable substances,
                                            means of preserving, 99.
   the distillation of, 76.

Yelloly (Dr.) on spade husbandry in
   Norfolk, 150.

END OP THE FIFTH VOLUME.

                        LONDON :

r-RIXTED BT RICHARD AND JOHN E. TAYLOR,
         RED LION COURT, FLEET STREET.
BRITISH ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT
                              OF SCIENCE.

                                           Price 13*. 6d. in boards,

   THE Second Edition of the REPORT of the FIRST and SECOND
MEETINGS of the BRITISH ASSOCIATION, held at York and Oxford

in 1831 and 1832.

ooPERnnoseqwCvTt.h.eo,hWelnelo,.trnRmeoeWtnnohcthe-estEenh:lTweet--icedPptlePrrlr,oisercgosoi;retf--ney.nsttsAPh;Srei--ortaayPfn.trS,deeiFsroooePrnnfDbrteetahsstvh,eeSietndaoSttncPeSBireottronhagefcetreweeMPssisortnoeefefsrGor,eRafenaloootAdnglsSioayttgrantoyhtt;e--ne:oH--omRPefreaDyoMvtgr;.e.;r----etWPessroJP.i.rcroDhoWloaf.o.frg.CdCyOo'uLsnpu;my--tbbrimecebvPsaoiinrrec;eo--gwk,f,,.

of Philological and Physical Researches.
   Together with Papers on Mathematics, Optics, Acoustics, Magnetism, Elec

tricity, Chemistry, Meteorology, Geography, Geology, Zoology, Anatomy,
Physiology, Botany, and the Arts ; and an Exposition of the Object and Plan
of the Association, &c.

                          Price 12s. in boards,

   REPORT of the THIRD MEETING of the BRITISH ASSOCIA
TION, held at Cambridge in 1833.

   Contents :-- Proceedings of the Meeting ;-- Mr. John Taylor, on Mineral

sRtoVeinoeerlinioatnnghlssyei;e;,--A--onofDnaMtlrhyH.ret.yiLcdNSianr.eladrHuvleTl.oiychuC,seshoroarSiysnsytsaitteoeh,fBmeorHaPn;nyh--tdcihlhroeMossoorMtf.paahEtPgiyncensgteeoitnrafisenBmBedoaritrnHoalogfnyw,dyth,;rPeo--adorEyntDanrIra.tt.hmh;eH--i;ce--sSRntreRry;ve--e,.nvgoMG. nt.hJr..PtheCoGeafhecoaPoMrlhglciyaesk,,

on certain Branches of Analysis.
   Together with Papers on Mathematics and Physics, Philosophical Instruments

and Mechanical Arts, Natural History, Anatomy, Physiology, and History of
Science.

                                   Price 15*. in boards,

REPORT of the FOURTH MEETING of the BRITISH ASSOCIA
TION, held at Edinburgh in 1834.
RPHreeoCvnf..orynL,Ltle.onoyJtndes,ntyho:n--ens,MPLharoyw.nssHicZ.aoolDfo.OlCoRpogtonyigct;ase--g;rsi--oR,neoMvn; --.r.thJPGe.r.oGCfR.heeoaCnlllolnaisgire,ky,,ooonofnnNCHoaAyrptndhiirlmlaaAuarmyllicesPAr,hitcytParsaaio;cr--tltoiogIDnIy.r;.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ;  --C.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    --

Together with the Transactions of the Sections, and Recommendations of
the Association and its Committees.

                     Price 13*. 6d. in boards,

   REPORT of the FIFTH MEETING of the BRITISH ASSO
CIATION, held at Dublin in 1835.

 " Contents :-- Rev. W. Whewell on the Recent Progress and Present Condition
of the Mathematical Theories of Electricity, Magnetism, and Heat;-- M. A.
                       de I'Etat actuel
Quetelet,    Apercu  Edward Sabine, on       des Sciences      Mathlmatiques chez les
Beiges; --  Captain                         the Phaenomena     of Terrestrial Magnetism.

Together with the Transactions of the Sections, and Recommendations of
the Association and its Committees.

   LITHOGRAPHED SIGNATURES of the MEMBERS who met at

Cambridge in 1833, with the Proceedings of the Public Meetings. 4to.
Price 4*. (To Members, 3*.)^

N.B. Members of the Association are entitled to purchase from the Local
III.Treasurers, at the Depdts, or           Office ofMessrs.   TaVyollo.r,I.Pr9i*n.t;erVs,ol.ReIdI.  Lion
                                   at  the  following prices:                                         8*.;
Court, Fleet Street, London,       at  the
Vol. 10*. ; Vol. IV. 9*.

                     John Murray, Albemarle Street.
                To be continued Quarterly, price 6s.

SCIENTIFIC MEMOIRS,

                       SELECTED AND TRANSLATED FROM

                   THE TRANSACTIONS OF

   FOREIGN ACADEMIES OF SCIENCE

         AND LEARNED SOCIETIES,

                                                                       AND FROM

                 FOREIGN JOURNALS.

                                            EDITED BY

             RICHARD TAYLOR, F.S.A.,

 FELLOW OF THE LINNjEAN, GEOLOGICAL, ASTRONOMICAL, ASIATIC, STATISTICAL
                              AND GEOGRAPHICAL SOCIETIES OF LONDON T

         HONORARY MEMBER OF THE NATURAL HISTORY SOCIETY OF MOSCOW :

                UNDER SECRETARY OF THE LINN^EAN SOCIETY.

This work is intended to furnish those who are at

tached to Scientific pursuits with a series of the most
interesting and important Memoirs in which foreign
Philosophers have fully developed and carefully re
corded their views and their discoveries ; particularly
such as relate to subjects of immediate interest, but
which are little known in this country, and have not
appeared in the English language.

    The following are the Contents of the Parts already published.

                                 PART I.

M. MELLONI, On the Free Transmission of Radiant Heat through differ

   ent Solid and Liquid Bodies ; and
       New Researches relative to the Immediate Transmission of Radiant

   Heat through different Solid and Liquid Bodies.

Prof. H. W. DOVE, Experiments on the Circular Polarization of Light-;
   and, Description of an Apparatus for exhibiting the Phsenomena of the
                         SCIENTIFIC MEMOIRS.

    Rectilinear, Elliptic and Circular Polarization of Light. (From Poggen-
    dorfFs Annalen der Physik und Cliemie.)
M. NOBILI, A Memoir on Colours in general, and particularly on a new
   Chromatic Scale deduced from Metallochromy for Scientific and Prac
   tical. Purposes. (From the Bibliothique Universale des Sciences, &c.)
M. POISSON, On the Mathematical Theory of Heat. (From the Armaks
   de Chimie et de Physique.)

M. SAVART, Researches on the Elasticity of Bodies which crystallize
   regularly. (From the Annates de Chimie et de Physique.)

Prof. LdWIG, Experiments on the Essential Oil of the Spiraa Uimotia,

   or Meadow Sweet. (From Poggendorff 's Annalen.)

Baron WALCKENAER, Researches relative to the Insects known to the

   Ancients and Moderns by which the Vine is infested, and on the Means
   of preventing their Ravages. (From the Annates de la SociM Entomc-
   logique de France.)

PART II.

Dr. CARUS, The Kingdoms of Nature, their Life and Affinity.  (From
  the Zeitschrtft fur Natur und Heilkunde.)

M. SAVART, Researches on the Elasticity of Bodies which crystallize
   regularly. (From the Annates de Chimie et de Physique.)

J. A. BALARD, Researches concerning the Nature of the Bleaching Com

   pounds of Chlorine. (From the Annates de Chimie et de Physique.)

E. LENZ, On the Laws of the Conducting Powers of Wires of diffe*ent
   Lengths and Diameters for Electricity. (From the Memoirs of the
   Academy of Sciences of St. Petersburg.)

M. MELLONI, Memoir on the Polarization of Heat. (From the Annates

   de Chimie et de Physique.)

                              PART III.

M. CLAPEYRON, On the Motive Power of Heat. (From the Journal de

    I'Ecole Royale Poly technique.)

Dr. BURMEISTER, On the Sound produced by Insects in Flying. (From

    Poggendorff 's Annalen.)

 M. MELLONI, On the Reflection of Radiant Heat ; and,
       On the Theory of the Identity of the Agents which produce Light and

   Radiant Heat. (From the Anna les de Chimie et de Physique.)

M. BIOT, On the Constitution of the higher Regions of the Earth's At
   mosphere. (From the Comptes Rendus des Stances de I'Academie.)

Prop. EHRENBERG, On Fossil Infusoria. --The two Memoirs enti/e,
   with an Engraving of the Figures. (From Poggendorff's Annalen.)
                         SCIENTIFIC MEMOIRS.

 M. BECQUEREL, On the Artificial Production of Crystallized Minerals

     by Voltaic Action.

 Prof. H. ROSE, On a New Combination of Anhydrous Sulphuric and

     Sulphurous Acids. (From Poggendorff's Annalen.)

 M. MOSSOTn, On the Forces which regulate the Internal Constitution
    of Bodies.

 M. PELOUZE, On certain Combinations of a new Acid, formed of Azote,

     Sulphur, and Oxygen. (From the Annates de Chimie et de Physique.)

Baron VON WREDE, On the Absorption of Light, according to the
    Theory of Undulations. (From Poggendorff's Annalen.)

                                 PART IV.

M. H. JACOBI, On the Application of Electro-Magnetism to the Move
    ment of Machines. (Potsdam, 1835.)
       I. D. BOTTO, Note on the Application of Electro-Magnetism as a

    Mechanical Power. (From Bibliothique Univ.)

      R. SCHULTHESS, Part of a Lecture on Electro -Magnetism, deliver

    ed at Zurich, 1833. (From a Work entitled Ueber Electromaynetis-
    mus, nebst Angabe einer neuen dutch Etectromaynetische Krafte beweyten
     Maschine.

      Prop. HENRY, On the Influence of a Spiral Conductor in increasing
    the Intensity of Electricity from a Galvanic Arrangement of aSingle Pair.
M. OSTROGRADSKY, A singular case of the Equilibrium of Incompress

    ible Fluids. (From Mim.deVAcad. Imp&ialedes Sciencesde St. Petersboury.)

Prof. C. G. EHRENBERG, On the Origin of Organic Matter from Sim

    ple Perceptible Matter, and on Organic Molecules and Atoms ; together
    with some Remarks on the Power of Vision of the Human Eye. (From
    Poggendorff's Annalen.)

MM. BIOT and CHEVREUL, On the Application of Circular Polariza

    tion to Organic Chemistry.
       M. BIOT, On the Application of Circular Polarization to the Analy

   sis of the Vegetation of the Graminex. (From Annates du Museum.)
      M. CHEVREUL, Examination of an Optical Character, by which,

   according to M. Biot, Vegetable Juices capable of producing Sugar ana
   logous to Cane Sugar, and those capable only of producing Sugar simi
    lar to Grape Sugar, may be immediately distinguished. (From the same.)

      M. BIOT, On the Application of the Laws of Circular Polarization
   to the Researches of Chemistry. (From the same.)
L. LENZ, On the Laws according to which the Magnet acts upon a Spiral,
   when it is suddenly approached to or removed from it; and on the most
   advantageous Mode of constructing Spirals for Magneto-Electrical pur
   poses. (From Mint, de YAcad. Imp. des Sciences de St. Petersb owry.)

              Part V. will be published in November next.

                 Printed by Richard and Jobn £. Taylor, Red Lion Court Fleet Street.
            PHILOSOPHICAL MAGAZINE.

A HE recent commencement of a New Series of this long-established Work, united
with the ANNALS OF PHILOSOPHY and the EDINBURGH JOURNAL OF
SCIENCE, and conducted by

                  Sir DAVID BREWSTER, K.H. LL.D. F.RSS. L. & E. &c.
                 RICHARD TAYLOR, F.S.A. L.S. G.S. Astr. S. &c.
                  RICHARD PHILLIPS, F.RSS. L.& E. F.G.S. &c,

affords to such individuals and societies as are desirous of possessing a monthly
record of the progress of the sciences a convenient opportunity of becoming sub
scribers. The great number of Original Communications from philosophers of the
first eminence, together with Records of the most Recent Discoveries, Notices of
Scientific Works, and the Proceedings of Learned Societies, domestic and foreign,
give a permanent value to the volumes of this Journal, which has long been quoted
as a Standard Work of Reference by writers of all countries. The Editors, aware
that an enlarged circulation would afford them the means of increasing the value
of the Work, respectfully invite the support of those who can estimate how much
the real advancement of knowledge depends, not merely upon popular and ele
mentary compilations, but upon such works as afford a convenient vehicle for the
speedy communication of the researches, discoveries and deductions of those dili
gent cultivators of the sciences, who are distinguished by the devotion of their
time and talents to the enlargement of the boundaries of knowledge.

   Among the writers whose original communications have enriched the numbers of
this Journal, are the following:

Prof.  Agassi z, Neuchatel.  Roral.                                          J. E. Grav, Esq. F.R.S.                                                RWooPdhbilliinpes,PaErsiqsh. ,FE.Rs^Si.  tf.RS.
Prof.  Airy, Astronomer                                                                                                                                                                       F.G.S.
                 M.D.                                                        Dr. Marshall Hall, F.RS.                                               Prof. Phillips, F.RS. F.G.S.
                  F.RS.                                                      Sir Win. Rowan Hamilton, Astro
                                                                                nomer Royal of Ireland.                                                 Potter, Esq.
RProf.

Prof.
       Apjobn,           &         Astr.           S.                        Rev. W. Vernon Harcoiirt,                                      F.RS.                        Powell, F.RS.
       Babbage,                                                              Prof. Hare, Pennsylvania.                                                                   Pratt, B.A.
FRPr..anBBcaairskloeBwwa,eilltEys,EEqs.sqqF. ..FR.RSS. .& Astr.S.            W. Henry, M.D. F.ILS.                                                  Rev. Prof.
                                                                             JWWS.ir..HJJCo...dFeHH.keeimWnnv,r.oyo,MHd,r.MDo.c.EDhs.qe.l,                                 Esq.
                                                                                                                                                    JR.evPr.idJe.auHx.,
C. T. Beke, Esq. F.S.A.                                                                                                                             Wm. Prout, M.D. KR.S.
Sir Charles Bell, F.R.S. F.L.S.                                                                                                             F.G.S.  Prof. Rigaud, F.R.S.
Thomas Bell, Esq. F.RS. F.L.S.                                                                                                              F.R.S.  Prof.  RRoitbcihniseo. nL, LD.D.D.,FP.rRo.fS. .Astr,
JB..                                                                                                                                                T. R.
      Bevan, Esq.      F.L.S.                                                William Hopkins, Esq. M.A.
      Blackwall, Esq.                                                        W. G. Horner, Esq.                                                         Armagh.
Henry S.Boase, M.D. Sec. Roy.                                                                                                                       CPr.oRf.umRukdebre,rgE.sq.UFp.sRalS. . & Astr. S.
      Geol. Soc. of Cornwall.                                                HRe.vH. uTd.soJ.n.HuMs.sDev. ,  M.R.I.A.                               D. E. Ruppell, M.D. Frankfort.
E.W. Bravley, Esq. F.L.S. F.G.S.                                                                              D.D.
Sir T.M.Brisbane, K.C.B.F.R.S.                                               JJa.mIveosrvl,ngElsisq,.  M.D.                                         G. Schweitzer, Esq.
                                                       E.                                              K.H. M.A.                            F.RS.   SPirrofJ..ES.Sedmgwitihck,,   F.R.S. F.G.S.
HSi.rDJ.aBvirdoBorkeew,Esstqe.r.FF..RR.S. SL..L&A  G.SS.I                    G. B. Jerrani,             A.B.                                                                     F.R.S. Pres. L.S.
                                   F.R.S.                                    Prof. Johnston, M.A.            F.RS.E.                                E.
Robt.   Brown, Esq.D.C.L.          F.RS.                                     H. Johnson, M.D.                                                            Solly, >n. Esq.         Esq.
Rev.   Prof. Buckland, D.D.                                                  T. W. Jones, Esq.                                                      J.  (le C. Sowerby,
Sir A. Carlisle, F.RS. F.L.S.                                                R. Kane, M.D. M.Rl.A.                                                  Wm. Sturgeon, Esq. Woolwich.
M. Cauchy.                                                                   Capt. Kater, F.RS.                                                     WiB.S»':.-""i. Esq. F.RS. F.L.S.
Rev. ProfcChallis, M.A.                                                      Rev. P. Keith, F.L.S.                                                  H. F. Tttibot, Esq. M.P. F.R.S.
EJR..eGvC..hWaCr.hleiDlsdw.reoCnro,tnliyE,bsEeqsa.qre.S,eFc..GFR..SR.S.S. .  Rev.W. Kirby, F.RS. F.L.S.                                             CJohn Taylor, Esq. F.RS. Tr. G.S.
                                                                             Prof. Kunffer, St. Petersburg.
                                                                             Rev. D. Lardner, LL.D. F.RS.                                           R. Taylor, F.G.S. Philadelphia.
                                                                             A. Levi, Esq. F.G.S.                                                   E.  TFh.oTmesscohne.mEascqhe. r,F.RESsq. .
John   Curtis,   EFsq.R. SF..L.S.
Prof.  Daniell,                                                                                                                                     J.
                                                                                                                                                    Dr. Tiarks, F.RS.
Prof. Daubenv, F.RS. F.L.S.                                                  JP.roWf..                       F.L.S.                                 John Tovey, Esq.
TJHo..hSnT. .DDDaaevwylea,s,MB"eE.Dcsqh..eF,F.E.RRsqSS...F.RS.                          Lindley, F.U.S.      F.RS.                                  W. C. Trevelyan. Esq.
                                                                                        Lubbock, Epq.                                               A. Trevelvan, Esq.
                                                                             JC.haMrlaecsCLuyIIealgl,hE,sqE.Msq.A. .Pres.G.S.
                                                                                                                                                    E. Turner M.D. F.RS. V.P.G.S.
SirPhilipdcMalpasGreyEgerton, Sir G. S. Mackenzie, Bart. F.RS. Prof. Van Mons, Louvaine.
      Bart, F.R.&G.SS.                                                       M. Melloni.                                                            Prof. Wagner, Erlangen.
Prof. Faraday, D.C.L. F.R.S.                                                 Prof. Miller, M.A. Cambridge.                                          Thomas Weaver,
W. H. Fitton, M.D. F.RS. F.G.S. Wm. S. MacLeay, Esq. F.L.S.                                                                                                                       Esq.   F.G.S.
                                                                                                                                                    J. O. Westwood,              Esq.   F.L.S.
RProf. Forbes, F.RSS. L.&E.                                                  Prof. Moseley.                                                         Rev. W. Whewell, F.RS. F.G.S.
                                                                                                                                                    W. S. B. Woolhouse, Eso.
    W. Fox, Esq.                                                             RDavid Mushet, Esq.                                                    W.Yarrell, Esq. F.L.S. Sec. G.S.
1DaWvi.esTG. ilGbrearht,aEmsq,.DF..CR.L.S. .E.F.RS.                              X.Murchison,E5q.F.R.S.F.G.S,
J. T. Graves, Esq.                                                           Prof. Neeker, Geneva.                                                  Prof. Young, Belfast.
                                                                             John Nixon, Esq.

   The London and Edinburgh                                                  Philosophical Magazine and Journal                                                          of Science, is         pub
lished monthly, price 2*. 6d.,                                               by R. Taylob, Printing Office, Red                                                           Lion Court,           Fleet
Street ; by whom Communications are received.
32101 076796323

